Risk Factors We depend on cable, satellite and telecom industry capital spending for a substantial portion of our revenue and any decrease or delay in capital spending in these industries would negatively impact our operating results and financial condition or cash flows. A significant portion of our sales have been derived from sales to cable television, satellite and telecommunications operators, and we expect these sales to constitute a significant portion of net sales for the foreseeable future. Demand for our products will depend on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by cable television operators, satellite operators, telecommunications companies and broadcasters for constructing and upgrading their systems. These capital spending patterns are dependent on a variety of factors, including: • access to financing; • annual budget cycles; • the impact of industry consolidation; • the status of federal, local and foreign government regulation of telecommunications and television broadcasting; 14 Table of Contents • overall demand for communication services and consumer acceptance of new video, voice and data services; • evolving industry standards and network architectures; • competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; • discretionary customer spending patterns; and • general economic conditions. In the past, specific factors contributing to reduced capital spending have included: • uncertainty related to development of digital video industry standards; • delays associated with the evaluation of new services, new standards and system architectures by many operators; • emphasis on generating revenue from existing customers by operators instead of new construction or network upgrades; • a reduction in the amount of capital available to finance projects of our customers and potential customers; • proposed and completed business combinations and divestitures by our customers and regulatory review thereof; • weak or uncertain economic and financial conditions in domestic and international markets; and • bankruptcies and financial restructuring of major customers. The financial difficulties of certain of our customers and changes in our customers’ deployment plans adversely affected our business in the past. Recently, economic conditions in the countries in which we operate and sell products have become increasingly negative, and global economies and financial markets have experienced a severe downturn stemming from a multitude of factors, including adverse credit conditions impacted by the subprime-mortgage crisis, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, rapid changes in foreign exchange rates, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns and other factors. Economic growth in the U.S. and in many other countries has slowed significantly or receded recently, and is expected by many to slow further or recede in 2009. The severity or length of time that these adverse economic and financial market conditions may persist is unknown. During challenging economic times, and in tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce capital expenditures, which in turn often results in lower demand for our products. Further, we have a number of customers internationally to whom sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. In recent months, the value of the U.S. dollar also has appreciated against many foreign currencies, including the local currencies of many of our international customers. As the U.S. dollar appreciates relative to the local currencies of our customers, the price of our products correspondingly increase for such customers. These factors could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Financial difficulties among our customers could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, industry consolidation has in the past constrained, and may in the future constrain capital spending among our customers. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will maintain or increase our net sales in the future. Also, if our product portfolio and product development plans do not position us well to capture an increased portion of the capital spending of U.S. cable operators, our revenue may decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of one or more of our key customers, or a failure to diversify our customer base, could harm our business. Historically, a majority of our sales have been to relatively few customers, and due in part to the consolidation of ownership of cable television and direct broadcast satellite systems, we expect this customer concentration to continue in the foreseeable 15 Table of Contents future. Sales to our ten largest customers in 2008, 2007 and 2006 accounted for approximately 58%, 53% and 50% of net sales, respectively. Although we are attempting to broaden our customer base by penetrating new markets, such as the telecommunications and broadcast markets, and to expand internationally, we expect to see continuing industry consolidation and customer concentration due in part to the significant capital costs of constructing broadband networks. For example, Comcast acquired AT&T Broadband in 2002, thereby creating the largest U.S. cable operator, reaching approximately 24 million subscribers. The sale of Adelphia Communications’ cable systems to Comcast and Time Warner Cable has led to further industry consolidation. NTL and Telewest, the two largest cable operators in the UK, completed their merger in 2006. In the DBS market, The News Corporation Ltd. acquired an indirect controlling interest in Hughes Electronics, the parent company of DIRECTV, in 2003, and News Corporation subsequently sold its interest in DIRECTV to Liberty Media in February 2008. In the telco market, AT&T completed its acquisition of Bell South in December 2006. The expected bankruptcy filing of Charter Communications in the first quarter of 2009 could lead to further industry consolidation. In the fiscal year 2008, sales to Comcast and EchoStar accounted for 20% and 12%, respectively, of our net sales. In the fiscal year 2007, sales to Comcast and EchoStar accounted for 16% and 12%, respectively, of our net sales. In the fiscal year 2006, sales to Comcast accounted for 12% of our net sales. The loss of Comcast, EchoStar or any other significant customer or any reduction in orders by Comcast, EchoStar or any significant customer, or our failure to qualify our products with a significant customer could adversely affect our business, operating results and liquidity. The loss of, or any reduction in orders from, a significant customer would harm our business if we were not able to offset any such loss or reduction with increased orders from other customers. In addition, historically we have been dependent upon capital spending in the cable and satellite industry. We are attempting to diversify our customer base beyond cable and satellite customers, principally into the telco market. Major telcos have begun to implement plans to rebuild or upgrade their networks to offer bundled video, voice and data services. While we have recently been increasing our revenue from telco customers, we are relatively new to this market. In order to be successful in this market, we may need to continue to build alliances with telco equipment manufacturers, adapt our products for telco applications, take orders at prices resulting in lower margins, and build internal expertise to handle the particular contractual and technical demands of the telco industry. In addition, telco video deployments are subject to delays in completion, as video processing technologies and video business models are new to most telcos and many of their largest suppliers. Implementation issues with our products or those of other vendors have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in project completion for our customers and delay the recognition of revenue by Harmonic. Further, during challenging economic times, and in tight credit markets, many customers, including telcos, may delay or reduce capital expenditures. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues from the telco market, or that we can do so profitably, and any failure to increase revenues and profits from telco customers could adversely affect our business. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, causing our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future, on an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of several factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include: • the level and timing of capital spending of our customers, both in the U.S. and in foreign markets; • access to financing, including credit, for capital spending by our customers; • changes in market demand; • the timing and amount of orders, especially from significant customers; • the timing of revenue recognition from solution contracts, which may span several quarters; • the timing of revenue recognition on sales arrangements, which may include multiple deliverables; 16 Table of Contents • the timing of completion of projects; • competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by our competitors; • seasonality, with fewer construction and upgrade projects typically occurring in winter months and otherwise being affected by inclement weather; • our unpredictable sales cycles; • the amount and timing of sales to telcos, which are particularly difficult to predict; • new product introductions by our competitors or by us; • changes in domestic and international regulatory environments; • market acceptance of new or existing products; • the cost and availability of components, subassemblies and modules; • the mix of our customer base and sales channels; • the mix of products sold and the effect it has on gross margins; • changes in our operating expenses and extraordinary expenses; • impairment of goodwill and intangibles; • the outcome of litigation; • write-downs of inventory and investments; • the impact of SFAS 123(R), an accounting standard which requires us to record the fair value of stock options as compensation expense; • changes in our tax rate, including as a result of changes in our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, and our expectation that we will experience a substantial increase in our effective tax rate in 2009 following the release of the substantial majority of our valuation allowance in 2008; • the impact of FIN 48, an accounting interpretation which requires us to establish reserves for uncertain tax positions and accrue potential tax penalties and interest; • the impact of SFAS 141(R), a recently revised accounting standard which requires us to record charges for certain acquisition related costs and expenses instead of capitalizing these costs; • our development of custom products and software; • the level of international sales; • economic and financial conditions specific to the cable, satellite and telco industries; and • general economic conditions. 17 Table of Contents The timing of deployment of our equipment can be subject to a number of other risks, including the availability of skilled engineering and technical personnel, the availability of other equipment such as compatible set top boxes, and our customers’ need for local franchise and licensing approvals. In addition, we often recognize a substantial portion, or majority, of our revenues in the last month of the quarter. We establish our expenditure levels for product development and other operating expenses based on projected sales levels, and expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, variations in timing of sales can cause significant fluctuations in operating results. As a result of all these factors, our operating results in one or more future periods may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. The markets for digital video systems are extremely competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change and declining average selling prices. Pressure on average selling prices was particularly severe during previous economic downturns as equipment suppliers compete aggressively for customers’ reduced capital spending, and we may experience similar pressure during the current economic slowdown. Our competitors for fiber optic access and edge products include corporations such as Motorola, Cisco Systems and Arris. In our video processing products, we compete broadly with products from vertically integrated system suppliers including Motorola, Cisco Systems, Thomson Multimedia and Ericsson, and, in certain product lines, with a number of smaller companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. Many of these large organizations are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in these markets. They often have broader product lines and market focus and may not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. These competitors may also be able to bundle their products together to meet the needs of a particular customer and may be capable of delivering more complete solutions than we are able to provide. Further, some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, and they have offered and in the future may offer their products at lower prices than we do, which has in the past and may in the future cause us to lose sales or to reduce our prices in response to competition. Any reduction in sales or reduced prices for our products would adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, many of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have and therefore have more long-standing and established relationships with domestic and foreign customers. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, which would harm our business. If any of our competitors’ products or technologies were to become the industry standard, our business could be seriously harmed. For example, new standards for video compression are being introduced and products based on these standards are being developed by us and some of our competitors. If our competitors are successful in bringing these products to market earlier, or if these products are more technologically capable than ours, then our sales could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, companies that have historically not had a large presence in the broadband communications equipment market have begun recently to expand their market share through mergers and acquisitions. The continued consolidation of our competitors could have a significant negative impact on us. Further, our competitors, particularly competitors of our digital and video broadcasting systems business, may bundle their products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or which may require us to lower our selling prices, resulting in lower revenues and decreased gross margins. Our future growth depends on market acceptance of several broadband services, on the adoption of new broadband technologies and on several other broadband industry trends. Future demand for our products will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of emerging broadband services, including digital video, VOD, HDTV, IPTV, mobile video services, very high-speed data services and voice-over-IP, or VoIP. The effective delivery of these services will depend, in part, on a variety of new network architectures and standards, such as: • new video compression standards such as MPEG-4 AVC/H.264 for both standard definition and high definition services; • fiber to the premises, or FTTP, and digital subscriber line, or DSL, networks designed to facilitate the delivery of video services by telcos; 18 Table of Contents • the greater use of protocols such as IP; • the further adoption of bandwidth-optimization techniques, such as switched digital video and DOCSIS 3.0; and • the introduction of new consumer devices, such as advanced set-top boxes and personal video recorders, or PVRs. If adoption of these emerging services and/or technologies is not as widespread or as rapid as we expect, or if we are unable to develop new products based on these technologies on a timely basis, our net sales growth will be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, other technological, industry and regulatory trends will affect the growth of our business. These trends include the following: • convergence, or the need of many network operators to deliver a package of video, voice and data services to consumers, also known as the “triple play” service; • the increasing availability of traditional broadcast video content on the Internet; • the entry of telcos into the video business; • the use of digital video by businesses, governments and educators; • efforts by regulators and governments in the U.S. and abroad to encourage the adoption of broadband and digital technologies; and • the extent and nature of regulatory attitudes towards such issues as competition between operators, access by third parties to networks of other operators, local franchising requirements for telcos to offer video, and other new services such as VoIP. We need to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely manner to remain competitive. Broadband communications markets are characterized by continuing technological advancement, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. However, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce these products if our products: • are not cost effective; • are not brought to market in a timely manner; • are not in accordance with evolving industry standards and architectures; • fail to achieve market acceptance; or • are ahead of the market. We are currently developing and marketing products based on new video compression standards. Encoding products based on the MPEG-2 compression standards have represented a significant portion of our sales since our acquisition of DiviCom in 2000. New standards, such as MPEG-4 AVC/H.264 have been adopted which provide significantly greater compression efficiency, thereby making more bandwidth available to operators. The availability of more bandwidth is particularly important to those DBS and telco operators seeking to launch, or expand, HDTV services. We have developed and launched products, including HD encoders, based on these new standards in order to remain competitive and are devoting considerable resources to this effort. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in the near future, or at all, or that competitors will not take significant market share in HD encoding. At the same time, we need to devote development resources to the existing MPEG-2 product line which our cable customers continue to require. 19 Table of Contents Also, to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into any necessary technology development or licensing agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements when necessary could limit our ability to develop and market new products and, accordingly, could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Conditions and changes in the national and global economic environments may adversely affect our business and financial results. Adverse economic conditions in markets in which we operate may harm our business. Recently, economic conditions in the countries in which we operate and sell products have become increasingly negative, and global financial markets have experienced a severe downturn stemming from a multitude of factors, including adverse credit conditions impacted by the subprime-mortgage crisis, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, rapid changes in foreign exchange rates, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns and other factors. Economic growth in the U.S. and in many other countries slowed in the fourth quarter of 2007, remained slow or stopped in 2008, and is expected to slow further or recede in 2009 in the U.S. and internationally. The current global economic slowdown has led many of our customers to announce or plan lower capital expenditures for 2009, and we believe that this slowdown caused certain of our customers to reduce or delay orders for our products in the fourth quarter of 2008. Many of our international customers, particularly those in emerging markets, have been exposed to tight credit markets and depreciating currencies, further restricting their ability to invest to build out or upgrade their networks. Some customers have difficulty in servicing or retiring existing debt and the financial constraints on certain international customers required us to significantly increase our reserves for doubtful accounts in the fourth quarter of 2008. For example, Charter Communications recently indicated that it expects to file for bankruptcy protection in the first quarter of 2009 in order to implement a restructuring aimed at improving its capital structure. During challenging economic times, and in tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce capital expenditures. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets deteriorate, we may experience a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Broadband communications markets are characterized by rapid technological change. Broadband communications markets are relatively immature, making it difficult to accurately predict the markets’ future growth rates, sizes or technological directions. In view of the evolving nature of these markets, it is possible that cable television operators, telcos or other suppliers of broadband wireless and satellite services will decide to adopt alternative architectures or technologies that are incompatible with our current or future products. Also, decisions by customers to adopt new technologies or products are often delayed by extensive evaluation and qualification processes and can result in delays in sales of current products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture and sell products that incorporate or are compatible with these new architectures or technologies, our business will suffer. If sales forecasted for a particular period are not realized in that period due to the unpredictable sales cycles of our products, our operating results for that period will be harmed. The sales cycles of many of our products, particularly our newer products and products sold internationally, are typically unpredictable and usually involve: • a significant technical evaluation; • a commitment of capital and other resources by cable, satellite, and other network operators; • time required to engineer the deployment of new technologies or new broadband services; 20 Table of Contents • testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations; and • test marketing of new services with subscribers. For these and other reasons, our sales cycles generally last three to nine months, but can last up to 12 months. If orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter do not occur in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could be substantially lower than anticipated. In this regard, our sales cycles with our current and potential satellite and telco customers are particularly unpredictable. Orders may include multiple elements, the timing of delivery of which may impact the timing of revenue recognition. Additionally, our sales arrangements may include testing and acceptance of new technologies and the timing of completion of acceptance testing is difficult to predict and may impact the timing of revenue recognition. Quarterly and annual results may fluctuate significantly due to revenue recognition policies and the timing of the receipt of orders. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from solution sales that principally consist of and include the system design, manufacture, test, installation and integration of equipment to the specifications of our customers, including equipment acquired from third parties to be integrated with our products. Revenue forecasts for solution contracts are based on the estimated timing of the system design, installation and integration of projects. Because solution contracts generally span several quarters and revenue recognition is based on progress under the contract, the timing of revenue is difficult to predict and could result in lower than expected revenue in any particular quarter. We must be able to manage expenses and inventory risks associated with meeting the demand of our customers. If actual orders are materially lower than the indications we receive from our customers, our ability to manage inventory and expenses may be affected. If we enter into purchase commitments to acquire materials, or expend resources to manufacture products, and such products are not purchased by our customers, our business and operating results could suffer. In this regard, our gross margins and operating results have been in the past adversely affected by significant charges for excess and obsolete inventories. In addition, we must carefully manage the introduction of next generation products in order to balance potential inventory risks associated with excess quantities of older product lines and forecasts of customer demand for new products. For example, in 2007, we wrote down approximately $7.6 million of net obsolete and excess inventory, with a significant portion of the write-down being due to product transitions. We also wrote down $1.1 million in 2006 as a result of the end of life of a product line. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage these product transitions in the future without incurring write-downs for excess inventory or having inadequate supplies of new products to meet customer expectations. We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions, and such acquisitions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. As part of our business strategy, from time to time, we have acquired, and continue to consider acquiring, businesses, technologies, assets and product lines that we believe complement or expand our existing business. For example, on December 22, 2008, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger pursuant to which we intend to acquire Scopus Video Networks Ltd. In addition, on December 8, 2006, we acquired the video networking software business of Entone Technologies, Inc. and, on July 31, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Rhozet Corporation. We expect to make additional acquisitions in the future. We may face challenges as a result of these activities, because acquisitions entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation and integration of acquired operations, technologies and/or products; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition transaction; • difficulties in implementing new or revised accounting pronouncements, such as SFAS 141(R), “Business Combinations”, which establishes principles and requirements to record the acquisition method of accounting; • the diversion of management’s attention from the regular operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations; • difficulties in integrating acquired companies’ systems controls, policies and procedures to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; 21 Table of Contents • adverse effects on new and existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and practices; • difficulties in bringing acquired products and businesses into compliance with applicable legal requirements in jurisdictions in which we operate and sell products; • substantial charges for acquisition costs, which are now required to be expensed under SFAS 141(R); • substantial charges for the amortization of certain purchased intangible assets, deferred stock compensation or similar items; • substantial impairments to goodwill or intangible assets in the event that an acquisition proves to be less valuable than the price we paid for it; and • delays in realizing or failure to realize the benefits of an acquisition. For example, the government grants that Scopus has received for research and development expenditures limits its ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel, and if Scopus fails to satisfy specified conditions, it may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. Also, we closed all operations and product lines related to Broadcast Technology Limited, which we acquired in 2005 and we have recorded charges associated with that closure. Competition within our industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies, assets and product lines has been, and may in the future continue to be, intense. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to consummate, we may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms or because the target is acquired by another company. Furthermore, in the event that we are able to identify and consummate any future acquisitions, we could: • issue equity securities which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt; • incur significant acquisition-related expenses; • assume contingent liabilities; or • expend significant cash. These financing activities or expenditures could harm our business, operating results and financial condition or the price of our common stock. Alternatively, due to difficulties in the capital and credit markets, we may be unable to secure capital on acceptable terms, or all, to complete acquisitions. Moreover, even if we do obtain benefits from acquisitions in the form of increased sales and earnings, there may be a delay between the time when the expenses associated with an acquisition are incurred and the time when we recognize such benefits. If we are unable to successfully address any of these risks, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. 22 Table of Contents We depend on our international sales and are subject to the risks associated with international operations, which may negatively affect our operating results. Sales to customers outside of the U.S. in 2008, 2007 and 2006 represented 44%, 44% and 49% of net sales, respectively, and we expect that international sales will continue to represent a meaningful portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our contract manufacturing occurs overseas. Our international operations, the international operations of our contract manufacturers and our efforts to increase sales in international markets are subject to a number of risks, including: • a slowdown in international economies, which may adversely affect our customers’ capital spending; • changes in foreign government regulations and telecommunications standards; • import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, treaties and technical standards; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability, including risks related to terrorist activity; and • changes in economic policies by foreign governments. In the past, certain of our international customers accumulated significant levels of debt and have undertaken reorganizations and financial restructurings, including bankruptcy proceedings. Even where these restructurings have been completed, in some cases these customers have not been in a position to purchase new equipment at levels we have seen in the past. While our international sales and operating expenses have typically been denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales or profitability in that country. A portion of our European business is denominated in Euros, which may subject us to increased foreign currency risk. Gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in operating results. Furthermore, payment cycles for international customers are typically longer than those for customers in the U.S. Unpredictable sales cycles could cause us to fail to meet or exceed the expectations of security analysts and investors for any given period. In addition, foreign markets may not further develop in the future. Another significant legal risk resulting from our international operations is compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses operating in such countries engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other U.S. laws and regulations. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any or all of these factors could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our future effective tax rates could affect our future operating results, financial condition and cash flows. In 2008, we released $110.4 million of the valuation allowance as an offset against all of our U.S. and certain foreign net deferred tax assets, of which $3.3 million was accounted for as a reduction to goodwill or other non-current intangible assets related to the Entone and Rhozet acquisitions. In accordance with SFAS 109, we have evaluated the need for a valuation allowance based on historical evidence, trends in profitability, expectations of future taxable income and implemented tax planning strategies. As such, we determined that a valuation allowance was no longer necessary for our U.S. deferred tax assets because, based on the available evidence, we concluded that a realization of these net deferred tax assets was more likely than not. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance for certain foreign deferred tax assets at the end of 2008. However, pursuant to SFAS 109, we are required to periodically review our deferred tax assets and determine whether, based on available evidence, a valuation allowance is necessary. In the event that, in the future, we determine that a valuation allowance is necessary with respect to our U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets, we would incur a charge equal to the amount of the valuation allowance in the period in which we made such determination, and this could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations for such period. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex global tax regulations. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If the estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate tax assessment, a further charge to expense would result. The Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”) on January 1, 2007, the first day of fiscal 2007. FIN 48 prescribes a comprehensive model for recognizing, measuring, presenting and disclosing in the consolidated financial statements tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return, including a decision whether to file or not to file in a particular jurisdiction. We are in the process of expanding our international operations and staff to better support our expansion into international markets. This expansion includes the implementation of an international structure that includes, among other things, an international support center in Europe, a research and development cost-sharing arrangement, certain licenses and other contractual arrangements between us and our wholly-owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries. As a result of these changes, we anticipate that our consolidated pre-tax income will be subject to foreign tax at relatively lower tax rates when compared to the United States federal statutory tax rate and, as a consequence, our effective income tax rate is expected to be lower than the United States federal statutory rate. Our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected if tax authorities challenge our international tax structure or if the relative mix of United States and international income changes for any reason. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our income tax rate will be less than the United States federal statutory rate in future periods. We face risks associated with having important facilities and resources located in Israel. We maintain a facility in Caesarea in the State of Israel with a total of 82 employees as of December 31, 2008, or approximately 12% of our workforce. The employees at this facility consist principally of research and development personnel. In addition, we have pilot production capabilities at this facility consisting of procurement of subassemblies and modules from Israeli subcontractors and final assembly and test operations. On December 22, 2008, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger to acquire Scopus Video Networks Ltd., and we expect to complete this acquisition in March 2009. Scopus is organized under the laws of the State of Israel and has its headquarters and the substantial majority of its operations in Israel. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel, and this influence is expected to increase following the completion of the proposed acquisition of Scopus. Any significant conflict involving Israel could have a direct effect on our business or that of our Israeli subcontractors, in the form of physical damage or injury, reluctance to travel within or to Israel by our Israeli and foreign employees or those of our subcontractors, or the loss of employees to active military duty. Most of our employees in Israel are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and several have been called for active military duty recently. In the event that more employees are called to active duty, certain of our research and development activities may be adversely affected and significantly delayed. In addition, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could significantly harm our business. Terrorist attacks and hostilities within Israel, the hostilities between 24 Table of Contents Israel and Hezbollah, and Israel and Hamas, and the conflict between Hamas and Fatah have also heightened these risks. Current or future tensions in the Middle East may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Changes in telecommunications legislation and regulations could harm our prospects and future sales. Changes in telecommunications legislation and regulations in the U.S. and other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, regulations dealing with access by competitors to the networks of incumbent operators could slow or stop additional construction or expansion by these operators. Local franchising and licensing requirements may slow the entry of telcos into the video business. Increased regulation of our customers’ pricing or service offerings could limit their investments and consequently the sales of our products. Changes in regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, we held approximately $10.7 million of auction rate securities, or ARSs, which were invested in preferred securities in closed-end mutual funds. The recent negative conditions in the credit markets have restricted our ability to liquidate holdings of ARSs because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. During 2008, we were able to sell $24.1 million of ARSs through successful auctions and redemptions. The remaining balance of $10.7 million in ARSs as of December 31, 2008 all had failed auctions in 2008. During August 2008, we received notification from our investment manager who holds the ARSs that it had reached a settlement with certain regulatory authorities, pursuant to which we would be able to sell its outstanding ARSs to the investment manager at par, plus accrued interest and dividends at any time during the period from January 2, 2009 through January 15, 2010. The entire balance of $10.7 million in ARSs that we held at December 31, 2008 were sold at par plus interest in February 2009. In the event we need or desire to access funds from the other short-term investments that we hold, it is possible that we may not be able to do so due to market conditions. If a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par or our cost, we may incur a loss. Further, rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an impairment charge. Our inability to sell all or some of our short-term investments at par or our cost, or rating downgrades of issuers of these securities, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we invest our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of investment vehicles in a number of countries with and in the custody of financial institutions with high credit ratings. While our investment policy and strategy attempt to manage interest rate risk, limit credit risk, and only invest in what we view as very high-quality securities, the outlook for our investment holdings is dependent on general economic conditions, interest rate trends and volatility in the financial marketplace, which can all affect the income that we receive, the value of our investments, and our ability to sell them. During 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.8 million relating to an investment in an unsecured debt instrument of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. We believe that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in unrealized or realized losses relating to other than temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. In order to manage our growth, we must be successful in addressing management succession issues and attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. We must successfully manage transition and replacement issues that may result from the departure or retirement of members of our senior management. We cannot assure you that changes of management personnel would not cause disruption to our operations or customer relationships, or a decline in our financial results. In addition, we are dependent on our ability to retain and motivate high caliber personnel, in addition to attracting new personnel. Competition for qualified management, technical and other personnel can be intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Competitors and others have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our 25 Table of Contents employees. While our employees are required to sign standard agreements concerning confidentiality and ownership of inventions, we generally do not have employment contracts or non-competition agreements with any of our personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly senior management and engineers and other technical personnel, could negatively affect our business. Accounting standards and stock exchange regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect our earnings, our ability to raise capital and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used equity compensation, including stock options and restricted stock units, as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that our equity incentive plans are an essential tool to link the long-term interests of stockholders and employees, especially executive management, and serve to motivate management to make decisions that will, in the long run, give the best returns to stockholders. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 123(R) that requires us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option and restricted stock unit grants and employee stock purchase plan rights for all periods from January 1, 2006. This standard has negatively impacted and will continue to negatively impact our earnings and may affect our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms. For 2008, stock-based compensation expense recognized under SFAS 123(R) was $7.8 million, which consisted of stock-based compensation expense related to board of directors’ restricted stock units, employee equity awards and employee stock purchases. In addition, regulations implemented by the NASDAQ Stock Market requiring stockholder approval for all equity incentive plans could make it more difficult for us to grant options or restricted stock units to employees in the future. To the extent that new accounting standards make it more difficult or expensive to grant options or restricted stock units to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. We are exposed to additional costs and risks associated with complying with increasing regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. We are spending an increased amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by our independent registered public accounting firm in connection with the filing of the annual report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures and have made improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. This process required us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and has resulted in significant additional expenses. While our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2008, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material respects as of December 31, 2008, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing and that of our independent registered public accounting firm in future periods. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation as of future year-ends, investors may lose confidence in our financial statements, and the price of our stock may suffer. We may need additional capital in the future and may not be able to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us. We have generated substantial operating losses since we began operations in June 1988. We have been engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of a variety of video products and system solutions since inception, which has required, and will continue to require, significant research and development expenditures. As of December 31, 2008 we had an accumulated deficit of $1.8 billion. These losses, among other things, have had and may have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We believe that our existing liquidity sources, including the net proceeds of the public offering of common stock that we completed in November 2007, will satisfy our cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need to 26 Table of Contents raise additional funds if our expectations are incorrect, to take advantage of unanticipated strategic opportunities, to satisfy our other liabilities, or to strengthen our financial position. Our ability to raise funds may be adversely affected by a number of factors relating to Harmonic, as well as factors beyond our control, including weakness in the economic conditions in markets in which we operating and into which we sell our products, increased uncertainty in the financial, capital and credit markets, as well as conditions in the cable and satellite industries. In particular, companies are experiencing difficulty raising capital from issuances of debt or equity securities in the current capital market environment, and may also have difficulty securing credit financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, we actively review potential acquisitions that would complement our existing product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or expand our marketing and sales presence. Any future transaction of this nature could require potentially significant amounts of capital to finance the acquisition and related expenses as well as to integrate operations following a transaction, and could require us to issue our stock and dilute existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, to develop new products or to otherwise respond to competitive pressures. We may raise additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. For example, debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. If adequate funds are not available, we will not be able to continue developing our products. If demand for our products increases more quickly than we expect, we may be unable to meet our customers’ requirements. If demand for our products increases, the difficulty of accurately forecasting our customers’ requirements and meeting these requirements will increase. For example, we had insufficient quantities of certain products to meet customer demand late in the second quarter of 2006 and, as a result, our revenues were lower than internal and external expectations. Forecasting to meet customers’ needs and effectively managing our supply chain is particularly difficult in connection with newer products. Our ability to meet customer demand depends significantly on the availability of components and other materials as well as the ability of our contract manufacturers to scale their production. Furthermore, we purchase several key components, subassemblies and modules used in the manufacture or integration of our products from sole or limited sources. Our ability to meet customer requirements depends in part on our ability to obtain sufficient volumes of these materials in a timely fashion. Also, in previous years, in response to lower sales and the prolonged economic recession, we significantly reduced our headcount and other expenses. As a result, we may be unable to respond to customer demand that increases more quickly than we expect. If we fail to meet customers’ supply expectations, our net sales would be adversely affected and we may lose business. We purchase several key components, subassemblies and modules used in the manufacture or integration of our products from sole or limited sources, and we are increasingly dependent on contract manufacturers. Many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. For example, we depend on a small private company for certain video encoding chips which are incorporated into several new products. Our reliance on sole or limited suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our increased reliance on subcontractors involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies or modules and, reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components, subassemblies or modules. In particular, certain optical components have in the past been in short supply and are available only from a small number of suppliers, including sole source suppliers. These risks are heightened during the current economic slowdown, because our suppliers and subcontractors are more likely to experience adverse changes in their financial condition and operations during such a period. While we expend resources to qualify additional component sources, consolidation of suppliers in the industry and the small number of viable alternatives have limited the results of these efforts. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our suppliers. Managing our supplier and contractor relationships is particularly difficult during time periods in which we introduce new products and during time periods in which demand for our products is increasing, especially if demand increases more quickly than we expect. Furthermore, from time to time we assess our relationship with our contract manufacturers. In 2003, we entered into a three- 27 Table of Contents year agreement with Plexus Services Corp. as our primary contract manufacturer, and Plexus currently provides us with a majority of the products that we purchase from our contract manufacturers. This agreement has automatic annual renewals unless prior notice is given and has been renewed until October 2009. Difficulties in managing relationships with current contract manufacturers, particularly Plexus, could impede our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and adversely affect our operating results. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply could negatively affect our ability to ship our products on a timely basis, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business. We attempt to limit this risk by maintaining safety stocks of certain components, subassemblies and modules. As a result of this investment in inventories, we have in the past and in the future may be subject to risk of excess and obsolete inventories, which could harm our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. In this regard, our gross margins and operating results in the past were adversely affected by significant excess and obsolete inventory charges. Cessation of the development and production of video encoding chips by C-Cube’s spun-off semiconductor business may adversely impact us. Our DiviCom business, which we acquired in 2000, and the C-Cube semiconductor business (acquired by LSI Logic in June 2001) collaborated on the production and development of two video encoding microelectronic chips prior to our acquisition of the DiviCom business. In connection with the acquisition, we have entered into a contractual relationship with the spun-off semiconductor business of C-Cube, under which we have access to certain of the spun-off semiconductor business technologies and products on which the DiviCom business depends for certain product and service offerings. The current term of this agreement is through October 2009, with automatic annual renewals unless terminated by either party in accordance with the agreement provisions. On July 27, 2007, LSI announced that it had completed the sale of its consumer products business (which includes the design and manufacture of encoding chips) to Magnum Semiconductor, and the agreement providing us with access to certain of the spun-off semiconductor business technologies and products was assigned to Magnum Semiconductor. If the spun-off semiconductor business is not able to or does not sustain its development and production efforts in this area, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be harmed. We need to effectively manage our operations and the cyclical nature of our business. The cyclical nature of our business has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our personnel, management and other resources. We reduced our work force by approximately 44% between December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2003 due to reduced industry spending and demand for our products. Our purchase of the video networking software business of Entone in December 2006 resulted in the addition of 43 employees, most of whom are based in Hong Kong, and we added approximately 18 employees on July 31, 2007, in connection with the completion of our acquisition of Rhozet. In addition, upon the closing of the proposed acquisition of Scopus, we expect to add a significant number of employees. Our ability to manage our business effectively in the future, including any future growth, will require us to train, motivate and manage our employees successfully, to attract and integrate new employees into our overall operations, to retain key employees and to continue to improve our operational, financial and management systems. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those governing the management, disposal and labeling of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur costs and fines, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. We also face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling, and disposal of certain products. For example, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, which regulates the collection, recovery, and recycling of waste from electrical and electronic products, and the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) directive, which bans the use of certain hazardous materials including lead, 28 Table of Contents mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) that exceed certain specified levels. Legislation similar to RoHS and WEEE has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Japan, and China. Our failure to comply with these laws could result in our being directly or indirectly liable for costs, fines or penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in such countries. We also expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs or decreased revenue, and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are liable for C-Cube’s pre-merger liabilities, including liabilities resulting from the spin-off of its semiconductor business. Under the terms of the merger agreement with C-Cube, we are generally liable for C-Cube’s pre-merger liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $1.7 million of pre-merger liabilities remained outstanding and are included in accrued liabilities. We are working with LSI Logic, which acquired C-Cube’s spun-off semiconductor business in June 2001 and assumed its obligations, to develop an approach to settle these obligations, a process which has been underway since the merger in 2000. These liabilities represent estimates of C-Cube’s pre-merger obligations to various authorities in five countries. We paid $4.9 million to satisfy a portion of this liability during 2008, but are unable to predict when the remaining obligations will be paid. The full amount of the estimated obligations has been classified as a current liability. To the extent that these obligations are finally settled for less than the amounts provided, we are required, under the terms of the merger agreement, to refund the difference to LSI Logic. Conversely, if the settlements are more than the remaining $1.7 million pre-merger liability, LSI Logic is obligated to reimburse us. The merger agreement stipulates that we will be indemnified by the spun-off semiconductor business if the cash reserves are not sufficient to satisfy all of C-Cube’s liabilities for periods prior to the merger. If for any reason, the spun-off semiconductor business does not have sufficient cash to pay such taxes, or if there are additional taxes due with respect to the non-semiconductor business and we cannot be indemnified by LSI Logic, we generally will remain liable, and such liability could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We rely on value-added resellers and systems integrators for a substantial portion of our sales, and disruptions to, or our failure to develop and manage our relationships with these customers and the processes and procedures that support them could adversely affect our business. We generate a substantial portion of our sales through net sales to value-added resellers, or VARs, and systems integrators. We expect that these sales will continue to generate a substantial percentage of our net sales in the future. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of VARs and systems integrators that specialize in video delivery solutions, products and services. We have no long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments with any of our VAR or system integrator customers, and our contracts with these parties do not prohibit them from purchasing or offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to our VAR and systems integrator customers to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our VAR or systems integrator customers may choose not to purchase or offer our products. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with VAR and systems integrator customers would likely materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights may adversely affect us. We currently hold 40 issued U.S. patents and 18 issued foreign patents, and have a number of patent applications pending. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, licensing arrangements, maintaining certain technology as trade secrets and other measures, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. We cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents that we own. In addition, 29 Table of Contents effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries in which we do business or may do business in the future. We believe that patents and patent applications are not currently significant to our business, and investors therefore should not rely on our patent portfolio to give us a competitive advantage over others in our industry. We believe that the future success of our business will depend on our ability to translate the technological expertise and innovation of our personnel into new and enhanced products. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers as needed, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, we have taken in the past, and may take in the future, legal action to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. In order to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. Although many companies are often willing to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, we cannot assure you that such agreements will be negotiated on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, when necessary or desirable, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could cause our business to suffer. Our products include third-party technology and intellectual property, and our inability to use that technology in the future could harm our business. We incorporate certain third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products, and intend to utilize additional third-party technologies in the future. Licenses to relevant third-party technologies or updates to those technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the technologies that we license may not operate properly and we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner, which could harm our business. We could face delays in product releases until alternative technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our products, if we are able to do so at all. These delays, or a failure to secure or develop adequate technology, could materially and adversely affect our business. We or our customers may face intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the telecommunications industry have extensive patent portfolios. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us or our customers. Our suppliers and customers may have similar claims asserted against them. A number of third parties, including companies with greater financial and other resources than us, have asserted patent rights to technologies that are important to us. Any future litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of the efforts of our management and technical personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities, temporary or permanent injunctions or require us to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. Furthermore, necessary licenses may not be available on satisfactory terms, or at all. An unfavorable outcome on any such litigation matters could require that Harmonic pay substantial damages, or, in connection with any intellectual property infringement claims, could require that we pay ongoing royalty payments or could prevent us from selling certain of our products and any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. On July 3, 2003, Stanford University and Litton Systems (now Northrop Grumman Guidance and Electronics Company, Inc.) filed a complaint in U.S. District Court for the Central District of California alleging that optical fiber amplifiers incorporated into certain of our products infringe U.S. Patent No. 4859016. This patent expired in September 2003. The complaint sought injunctive relief, royalties and damages. On August 6, 2007, the District Court granted our motion to dismiss. The plaintiffs appealed this motion and on June 19, 2008 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision which vacated the District Court’s decision and remanded for further proceedings. At a scheduling conference on October 6, 2008, the judge ordered the parties to mediation. Two mediation sessions were held in November and December 2008. Following the mediation sessions, Harmonic and Litton entered into a settlement agreement on January 15, 2009. The settlement agreement provides 30 Table of Contents than in exchange for a one-time lump sum payment from Harmonic to Litton of $5 million, Litton (i) will not bring suit against Harmonic, any of its affiliates, customers, vendors, representatives, distributors, and its contract manufacturers from having any liability for making, using, offering for sale, importing, and/or selling any Harmonic products that may have incorporated technology that was alleged to have infringed on one or more of the relevant patents and (ii) would release Harmonic from any liability for making, using, selling any Harmonic products that may have infringed on such patents. Harmonic paid the settlement amount in January 2009. Our suppliers and customers may have similar claims asserted against them. We have agreed to indemnify some of our suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement. The scope of this indemnity varies, but, in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses (including reasonable attorney’s fees). We are the subject of litigation which, if adversely determined, could harm our business and operating results. In addition to the litigation discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are involved in other litigation and may be subject to claims arising in the normal course of business. An unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could require that we pay substantial damages, or, in connection with any intellectual property infringement claims, could require that we pay ongoing royalty payments or could prevent us from selling certain of our products. In addition, we may decide to settle any litigation, which could cause us to incur significant costs. A settlement or an unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. We have received preliminary court approval of a settlement of derivative claims and hearing on final approval has been scheduled. In 2000, several class action lawsuits, which were ultimately consolidated into a single lawsuit, were brought on behalf of a purported class of persons who purchased Harmonic’s publicly traded securities between January 19, 2000 and June 26, 2000, and alleged violations of federal securities laws by Harmonic and certain of its officers and directors. The consolidated complaint alleged, inter alia, that, by making false or misleading statements regarding Harmonic’s prospects and customers and its acquisition of C-Cube, certain defendants violated sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and also alleged that certain defendants violated section 14(a) of the Exchange Act and sections 11, 12(a)(2), and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, by filing a false or misleading registration statement, prospectus, and joint proxy in connection with the C-Cube acquisition. Following a series of procedural actions, a significant number of the claims alleged in the consolidated complaint were dismissed. However, certain of the plaintiffs’ claims survived dismissal. In January 2007, the District Court set a trial date for August 2008, and also ordered the parties to participate in mediation. As a result of discussions and negotiations between plaintiffs’ counsel and Harmonic, and Harmonic and its insurance carriers, an agreement was reached in March 2008 to resolve the securities class action lawsuit. This agreement releases Harmonic, its officers, directors and insurance carriers from all claims brought in the lawsuit by the plaintiffs against Harmonic or its officers and directors, without any admission of fault on the part of Harmonic or its officers and directors. On October 29, 2008, the District Court issued a final order granting approval of the settlement agreement. Under the terms of the agreement to settle the securities class action lawsuit, Harmonic and its insurance carriers paid $15.0 million in consideration to the plaintiffs in the securities class action. Of this amount, Harmonic paid $5.0 million, and Harmonic’s insurance carriers, in addition to having funded most litigation costs, contributed the remaining $10.0 million on behalf of the individual defendants. Harmonic paid its share of the settlement consideration into escrow on August 5, 2008. On May 15, 2003, a derivative action purporting to be on our behalf was filed in the Superior Court for the County of Santa Clara against certain current and former officers and directors. It alleges facts similar to those alleged in the securities class action filed in 2000 and settled in 2008. On December 23, 2008, the Court granted preliminary approval to a settlement of the derivative action. On February 26, 2009, the settlement was submitted to the Court for final approval. The terms of the settlement require final approval of the settlement in the securities class action litigation, which has occurred, and payment by Harmonic of $550,000 to cover plaintiff’s attorneys fees. If finalized, the settlement will release Harmonic’s officers and directors from all claims brought in the derivative lawsuit. There can be no assurance that final approval of the settlement will be granted. If final approval is not granted, or if for any reason the settlement does not become final, Harmonic and its officers and directors will be required to continue litigating the 31 Table of Contents derivative action, which could result in substantive legal expenses for the Company and distraction by its management. If an agreement cannot be reached resulting in a court trial, an adverse verdict in a trial could require that we pay substantial damages. Any subsequent attempt to settle the litigation matters could be on terms less favorable to Harmonic than those set forth in the tentative agreements described above. A subsequent settlement of the derivative action on terms that are different from those outlined above, or an unfavorable outcome of the derivative litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. We are subject to import and export controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception, in most cases because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers internationally. In addition, we may be subject to customs duties and export quotas, which could have a significant impact on our revenue and profitability. While we have not encountered significant difficulties in connection with the sales of our products in international markets, the future imposition of significant increases in the level of customs duties or export quotas could have a material adverse effect on our business. The ongoing threat of terrorism has created great uncertainty and may continue to harm our business. Current conditions in the U.S. and global economies are uncertain. The terrorist attacks in the U.S. in 2001 and subsequent terrorist attacks in other parts of the world have created many economic and political uncertainties that have severely impacted the global economy, and have adversely affected our business. For example, following the 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S., we experienced a further decline in demand for our products. The long-term effects of the attacks, the situation in the Middle East and the ongoing war on terrorism on our business and on the global economy remain unknown. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks has created additional uncertainty and makes it difficult to estimate the stability and strength of the U.S. and other economies and the impact of economic conditions on our business. The markets in which we, our customers and our suppliers operate are subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our headquarters and the majority of our operations are located in California, which is prone to earthquakes, and some of the other locations in which we, our customers and suppliers conduct business are prone to natural disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by any such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties and suffer significant financial losses. Furthermore, we rely on third-party manufacturers for the production of many of our products, and any disruption in the business or operations of such manufacturers could adversely impact our business. In addition, if there is a major earthquake or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which our significant customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses, or sustained business interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to continue their purchase of products from us. A major earthquake or other natural disaster in the markets in which we, our customers or suppliers operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 32 Table of Contents Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; • controlling the procedures for conduct and scheduling of Board and stockholder meetings; and • providing the Board of Directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control or management of us. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The rights are not intended to prevent a takeover of us, and we believe these rights will help our negotiations with any potential acquirers. However, if the Board of Directors believes that a particular acquisition is undesirable, the rights may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging that acquisition. The rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by our Board of Directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon redemption of the rights. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, our stockholder rights plan or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our common stock price may be extremely volatile, and the value of your investment may decline. Our common stock price has been highly volatile. We expect that this volatility will continue in the future due to factors such as: • general market and economic conditions; • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or new services by us or by our competitors or customers; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • announcements by our customers regarding end market conditions and the status of existing and future infrastructure network deployments; 33 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; and • future equity or debt offerings or our announcements of these offerings. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and the securities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. Investors may be unable to sell their shares of our common stock at or above the purchase price. Our stock price may decline if additional shares are sold in the market. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, we may be required to issue additional shares upon exercise of previously granted options that are currently outstanding. Increased sales of our common stock in the market after exercise of currently outstanding options could exert significant downward pressure on our stock price. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the availability of research and reports that third-party industry or financial analysts publish about us. Further, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the liquidity of our stock and our stock price to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 