Risk Factors We Depend On Cable, Satellite And Telecom Industry Capital Spending For A Substantial Portion Of Our Revenue And Any Decrease Or Delay In Capital Spending In These Industries Would Negatively Impact Our Resources, Operating Results And Financial Condition And Cash Flows. A significant portion of Harmonic’s sales have been derived from sales to cable television, satellite and telecommunications operators, and we expect these sales to constitute a significant portion of net sales for the foreseeable future. Demand for our products will depend on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by cable television operators, satellite operators, telephone companies and broadcasters for constructing and upgrading their systems. These capital spending patterns are dependent on a variety of factors, including: • access to financing; • annual budget cycles; • the impact of industry consolidation; • the status of federal, local and foreign government regulation of telecommunications and television broadcasting; • overall demand for communication services and the acceptance of new video, voice and data services; • evolving industry standards and network architectures; • competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; • discretionary customer spending patterns; and • general economic conditions. 13 Table of Contents In the past, specific factors contributing to reduced capital spending have included: • uncertainty related to development of digital video industry standards; • delays associated with the evaluation of new services, new standards, and system architectures by many cable and satellite television operators; • emphasis on generating revenue from existing customers by operators instead of new construction or network upgrades; • a reduction in the amount of capital available to finance projects of our customers and potential customers; • proposed and completed business combinations and divestitures by our customers and regulatory review thereof; • economic and financial conditions in domestic and international markets; and • bankruptcies and financial restructuring of major customers. The financial difficulties of certain of our customers and changes in our customers’ deployment plans adversely affected our business in recent years. However, we believe that the financial condition of many of our customers has stabilized or improved, and our net sales increased in 2005 compared to 2004, and in 2004 compared to 2003. However, another economic downturn or other factors could cause additional financial difficulties among our customers, and customers whose financial condition has stabilized may not purchase new equipment at levels we have seen in the past. Continued financial difficulties among our customers would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, industry consolidation has, in the past and may in the future, constrain capital spending among our customers. In this regard, we believe that the bankruptcy of Adelphia Communications has led to capital spending delays and we cannot currently predict the impact of the proposed sale of Adelphia Communications’ cable systems to Comcast and Time-Warner Cable on our future sales. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will maintain or increase our net sales in the future. Major U.S. cable operators have indicated that the substantial completion of major network upgrades, which involved significant labor and construction costs, will lead to lower capital expenditures in the future. If our product portfolio and product development plans do not position us well to capture an increased portion of the capital spending of U.S. cable operators, our revenue may decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. Our Customer Base Is Concentrated And The Loss Of One Or More Of Our Key Customers, Or a Failure to Diversify Our Customer Base, Could Harm Our Business. Historically, a majority of our sales have been to relatively few customers, and due in part to the consolidation of ownership of cable television and direct broadcast satellite systems, we expect this customer concentration to continue in the foreseeable future. Sales to our ten largest customers in 2005, 2004 and 2003 accounted for approximately 54%, 55% and 65% of net sales, respectively. Although we are attempting to broaden our customer base by penetrating new markets such as the telecommunications and broadcast markets and expand internationally, we expect to see continuing industry consolidation and customer concentration due in part to the significant capital costs of constructing broadband networks. For example, Comcast acquired AT&T Broadband in November 2002, thereby creating the largest U.S. cable operator, reaching approximately 22 million subscribers. In the DBS market, The News Corporation Ltd. acquired an indirect controlling interest in Hughes Electronics, the parent company of DIRECTV in 2003. NTL and Telewest, the two largest cable operators in the U.K., have recently completed their announced merger. In the telco market, AT&T has announced an agreement to acquire Bell South. In addition, the sale or financial restructuring of companies such as Adelphia Communications and several European operators may lead to further industry consolidation. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, sales to Comcast accounted for 18%, 17% and 32%, respectively, of net sales. The loss of Comcast or any other significant customer or any reduction in orders by Comcast or any significant customer, or our failure to qualify our products with a significant customer could adversely affect our business, operating results and 14 Table of Contents liquidity. In this regard, sales to Comcast declined in 2004 compared to 2003, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues. Furthermore, in the third and fourth quarters of 2005, sales for a major telco accounted for 13% of net sales. However, we do not expect to make significant shipments for this telco in 2006. The loss of, or any reduction in orders from, a significant customer would harm our business. In addition, historically we have been dependent upon capital spending in the cable and satellite industry. We are attempting to diversify our customer base beyond cable and satellite customers, principally into the telco market. Major telcos have begun to implement plans to rebuild or upgrade their networks to offer bundled video, voice and data services. While we have recently increased our revenue from telco customers, we are relatively new to this market. In order to be successful in this market, we may need to build alliances with telco equipment manufacturers, adapt our products for telco applications, take orders at prices resulting in lower margins, and build internal expertise to handle the particular contractual and technical demands of the telco industry. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues from the telco market, or that we can do so profitably, and any failure to increase revenues and profits from telco customers could adversely affect our business. Our Operating Results Are Likely To Fluctuate Significantly And May Fail To Meet Or Exceed The Expectations Of Securities Analysts Or Investors, Causing Our Stock Price To Decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future, on an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of several factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include: • the level and timing of capital spending of our customers, both in the U.S. and in foreign markets; • changes in market demand; • the timing and amount of orders, especially from significant customers; • the timing of revenue recognition from solution contracts which may span several quarters; • the timing of revenue recognition on sales arrangements, which may include multiple deliverables; • the need to replace revenue from shipments to a distributor for a major telco, which we do not expect to continue at the same level of revenue in 2006 as in 2005; • competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by our competitors; • seasonality, with fewer construction and upgrade projects typically occurring in winter months and otherwise being affected by inclement weather; • our unpredictable sales cycles; • the amount and timing of sales to telcos, which are particularly difficult to predict; • new product introductions by our competitors or by us; • changes in domestic and international regulatory environments; • market acceptance of new or existing products; • the cost and availability of components, subassemblies and modules; • the mix of our customer base and sales channels; • the mix of our products sold; • changes in our operating expenses and extraordinary expenses; • the impact of FAS 123(R), a new accounting standard which will require us to expense stock options; • our development of custom products and software; 15 Table of Contents • the quantity of third-party products we sell, which products carry lower gross margins, compared to our own products; • the quantity of FTTP products we sell, which products carry lower gross margins than our other products; • the level of international sales; and • economic and financial conditions specific to the cable, satellite and telco industries, and general economic conditions. For example, the timing of deployment of our equipment can be subject to a number of other risks, including the availability of skilled engineering and technical personnel, the availability of other equipment such as compatible set top boxes, and our customers’ need for local franchise and licensing approvals. In addition, we often recognize a substantial portion of our revenues in the last month of the quarter. We establish our expenditure levels for product development and other operating expenses based on projected sales levels, and expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, variations in timing of sales can cause significant fluctuations in operating results. As a result of all these factors, our operating results in one or more future periods may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. In this regard, due to lower than expected sales during the first quarter of 2003, the third quarter of 2004, and a decrease in gross profit percentage in 2005, we failed to meet our internal expectations, as well as the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and the price of our common stock declined, in some cases significantly. Our Future Growth Depends on Market Acceptance of Several Emerging Broadband Services, on the Adoption of New Broadband Technologies and on Several Other Broadband Industry Trends. Future demand for our products will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of several emerging broadband services, including digital video; VOD; HDTV; very high-speed data services and voice-over-IP (VoIP) telephony. The effective delivery of these services will depend, in part, on a variety of new network architectures and standards, such as: • new video compression standards such as MPEG-4/ H.264 and Microsoft’s Windows Media 9 broadcast profile (VC-1); • FTTP and DSL networks designed to facilitate the delivery of video services by telcos; • the greater use of protocols such as IP; and • the introduction of new consumer devices, such as advanced set-top boxes and personal video recorders (PVRs). If adoption of these emerging services and/or technologies is not as widespread or as rapid as we expect, or if we are unable to develop new products based on these technologies on a timely basis, our net sales growth will be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, other technological, industry and regulatory trends will affect the growth of our business. These trends include the following: • convergence, or the desire of certain network operators to deliver a package of video, voice and data services to consumers, also known as the “triple play”; • the use of digital video by businesses, governments and educators; • the entry of telcos into the video business; • growth in HDTV, on-demand services and mobile video; 16 Table of Contents • efforts by regulators and governments in the U.S. and abroad to encourage the adoption of broadband and digital technologies; and • the extent and nature of regulatory attitudes toward such issues as competition between operators, access by third parties to networks of other operators, local franchising requirements for telcos to offer video, and new services such as VoIP. If, for instance, operators do not pursue the “triple play” as aggressively as we expect, our net sales growth would be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, if our expectations regarding these and other trends are not met, our net sales may be materially and adversely affected. We Need To Develop And Introduce New And Enhanced Products In A Timely Manner To Remain Competitive. Broadband communications markets are characterized by continuing technological advancement, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. However, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce these products if our products: • are not cost effective; • are not brought to market in a timely manner; • are not in accordance with evolving industry standards and architectures; • fail to achieve market acceptance; or • are ahead of the market. We are currently developing and marketing products based on new video compression standards. Encoding products based on the current MPEG-2 compression standards have represented a significant portion of the Company’s sales since the acquisition of DiviCom in 2000. New standards, such as MPEG-4/ H.264 and Microsoft’s Windows Media 9 broadcast profile (VC-1), have been adopted which provide significantly greater compression efficiency, thereby making more bandwidth available to operators. The availability of more bandwidth is particularly important to those DBS and telco operators seeking to launch, or expand, HDTV services. One of our competitors has already announced significant orders for MPEG-4 HD encoders from a major DBS operator. Harmonic is developing products, including HD encoders, based on these new standards in order to remain competitive and is devoting considerable resources to this effort. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in the near future, or at all, or that competitors will not take significant market share in HD encoding. We are also currently marketing products for FTTP networks which certain telcos have begun to build. We believe that a number of our existing products can be deployed successfully in these networks and we have devoted considerable resources to obtaining orders, qualifying our products and hiring knowledgeable personnel. Shipments of products for a major telco’s FTTP projects represented 13% of sales in our third and fourth quarters of 2005. However, we do not expect to make significant shipments for this telco in 2006, and we have reduced the amount of resources devoted to these products. While we expect to continue to market these products to other customers, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in the near future, or at all. Also, to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products for digital applications, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into any necessary technology development or licensing agreement on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements when necessary could limit our ability to develop and market new products and, accordingly, could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Broadband Communications Markets Are Characterized By Rapid Technological Change. Broadband communications markets are relatively immature, making it difficult to accurately predict the markets’ future growth rates, sizes or technological directions. In view of the evolving nature of these markets, it is possible that cable television operators, telephone companies or other suppliers of broadband wireless and satellite services will decide to adopt alternative architectures or technologies that are incompatible with our current or future products. Also, decisions by customers to adopt new technologies or products are often delayed by extensive evaluation and qualification processes and can result in delays in sales of current products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture and sell products that incorporate or are compatible with these new architectures or technologies, our business will suffer. The Markets In Which We Operate Are Intensely Competitive And Many Of Our Competitors Are Larger And More Established. The markets for fiber optics systems and digital video systems are extremely competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change and declining average selling prices. Pressure on average selling prices was particularly severe during the recent economic downturn as equipment suppliers competed aggressively for customers’ reduced capital spending. Harmonic’s competitors in the fiber optics systems business include corporations such as Motorola, Cisco Systems and C-Cor. In the digital and video broadcasting systems business, we compete broadly with vertically integrated system suppliers including Motorola, Cisco Systems, Tandberg Television and Thomson Multimedia, and in certain product lines with a number of smaller companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than Harmonic. Many of these large organizations are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in these markets. They often have broader product lines and market focus and may not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. In addition, many of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have and therefore have more long-standing and established relationships with domestic and foreign customers. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, which may harm our business. If any of our competitors’ products or technologies were to become the industry standard, our business could be seriously harmed. For example, new standards for video compression are being introduced and products based on these standards are being developed by Harmonic and certain competitors. If our competitors are successful in bringing these products to market earlier, or if these products are more technologically capable than ours, then our sales could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, companies that have historically not had a large presence in the broadband communications equipment market have begun recently to expand their market share through mergers and acquisitions. The continued consolidation of our competitors could have a significant negative impact on us. Further, our competitors, particularly competitors of our digital and video broadcasting systems business, may bundle their products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or which may require us to lower our selling prices resulting in lower gross margins. If Sales Forecasted For A Particular Period Are Not Realized In That Period Due To The Unpredictable Sales Cycles Of Our Products, Our Operating Results For That Period Will Be Harmed. The sales cycles of many of our products, particularly our newer products and products sold internationally, are typically unpredictable and usually involve: • a significant technical evaluation; • a commitment of capital and other resources by cable, satellite, and other network operators; • time required to engineer the deployment of new technologies or new broadband services; • testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations; and 18 Table of Contents • test marketing of new services with subscribers. For these and other reasons, our sales cycles generally last three to six months, but can last up to 12 months. If orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter do not occur in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could be substantially lower than anticipated and the market price of our common stock could decline. In this regard, our sales cycles with our current and potential satellite and telco customers are particularly unpredictable. Additionally, orders may include multiple elements, the timing of delivery of which may impact the timing of revenue recognition. Quarterly and annual results may fluctuate significantly due to revenue recognition policies and the timing of the receipt of orders. For example, revenue from two significant customer orders in the third quarter of 2004 was delayed due to these factors until the fourth quarter of 2004. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from solution sales that principally consist of and include the system design, manufacture, test, installation and integration of equipment to the specifications of Harmonic’s customers, including equipment acquired from third parties to be integrated with Harmonic’s products. Revenue forecasts for solution contracts are based on the estimated timing of the system design, installation and integration of projects. Because the solution contracts generally span several quarters and revenue recognition is based on progress under the contract, the timing of revenue is difficult to predict and could result in lower than expected revenue in any particular quarter. We Depend On Our International Sales And Are Subject To The Risks Associated With International Operations, Which May Negatively Affect Our Operating Results. Sales to customers outside of the U.S. in 2005, 2004 and 2003 represented 40%, 42% and 29% of net sales, respectively, and we expect that international sales will continue to represent a meaningful portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our contract manufacturing occurs overseas. Our international operations, the international operations of our contract manufacturers, and our efforts to increase sales in international markets, are subject to a number of risks, including: • changes in foreign government regulations and telecommunications standards; • import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, treaties and technical standards; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability; and • changes in economic policies by foreign governments. During 2004, a significant percentage of our international revenues were derived from a major upgrade by a Japanese customer of its satellite facilities. That upgrade has now been completed, and sales to this customer in 2005 declined compared to 2004, which has adversely affected our sales to international customers. Certain of our international customers have accumulated significant levels of debt and have announced during the past three years reorganizations and financial restructurings, including bankruptcy filings as well as mergers. Even if these restructurings are completed, we cannot assure you that these customers will be in a position to purchase new equipment at levels we have seen in the past. 19 Table of Contents While our international sales and operating expenses have typically been denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales or profitability in that country. Following implementation of the Euro in January 2002, a higher portion of our European business is denominated in Euros, which may subject us to increased foreign currency risk. Gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in operating results. Furthermore, payment cycles for international customers are typically longer than those for customers in the U.S. Unpredictable sales cycles could cause us to fail to meet or exceed the expectations of security analysts and investors for any given period. In addition, foreign markets may not develop in the future. Any or all of these factors could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Pending Business Combinations And Other Financial And Regulatory Issues Among Our Customers Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Many of our domestic and international customers accumulated significant levels of debt and announced reorganizations and financial restructurings during the past three years, including bankruptcy filings. In particular, Adelphia Communications, a major domestic cable operator, declared bankruptcy in June 2002. The stock prices of other domestic cable companies came under pressure following the Adelphia bankruptcy due to concerns about debt levels and capital expenditure requirements for new and expanded services, thereby making the raising of capital more difficult and expensive. While the capital market concerns about the domestic cable industry have eased, market conditions remain difficult and capital spending plans are generally constrained. It is likely that further industry restructuring will take place via mergers or spin-offs, such as the Comcast/ AT&T Broadband transaction in 2002 and the acquisition by The News Corporation Ltd. in December 2003 of an indirect controlling interest in Hughes Electronics, the parent company of DIRECTV. This transaction followed regulatory opposition to the proposed acquisition of DIRECTV by EchoStar. We believe that uncertainty during 2002 regarding the proposed DIRECTV and EchoStar merger adversely affected capital spending by both of these parties as well as other customers. More recently, restructuring of the industry has continued with the privatization of Cox Communications, the planned sale of Adelphia Communications’ cable systems out of bankruptcy to Comcast and Time-Warner, the proposed sale of Cablevision’s VOOM! satellite assets to Echostar and the recently completed merger of U.K. cable operators NTL and Telewest. In addition, further business combinations may occur in our industry, and these further combinations could adversely affect our business. Regulatory issues, financial concerns and business combinations among our customers are likely to significantly affect the industry, its capital spending plans, and our levels of business for the foreseeable future. Changes in Telecommunications Legislation and Regulations Could Harm Our Prospects And Future Sales. Changes in telecommunications legislation and regulations in the U.S. and other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, regulations dealing with access by competitors to the networks of incumbent operators could slow or stop additional construction or expansion by these operators. Local franchising and licensing requirements may slow the entry of telcos into the vidoe business. Increased regulation of our customers’ pricing or service offerings could limit their investments and consequently the sales of our products. Changes in regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Competition For Qualified Personnel, Particularly Management Personnel, Can Be Intense. In Order To Manage Our Growth, We Must Be Successful In Addressing Management Succession Issues And Attracting And Retaining Qualified Personnel. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. We must successfully manage transition and replacement issues that may result from the departure or retirement of members of our senior management. We are dependent on our ability to retain and motivate high caliber personnel, in addition to attracting new personnel. Competition for qualified management, technical and other personnel can be intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Competitors and others have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our employees. While our employees are required to sign standard agreements concerning confidentiality and ownership of inventions, we generally do not have employment contracts or non-competition agreements with any of our personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly senior management and engineers and other technical personnel, could negatively affect our business. Recent And Proposed Regulations Related To Equity Compensation Could Adversely Affect Earnings, Affect Our Ability To Raise Capital And Affect Our Ability To Attract And Retain Key Personnel. Since our inception, we have used stock options as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that our stock option plans are an essential tool to link the long-term interests of stockholders and employees, especially executive management, and serve to motivate management to make decisions that will, in the long run, give the best returns to stockholders. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued FAS 123(R) that will require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan rights for all future periods beginning on January 1, 2006. This standard will negatively impact our earnings and may affect our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms. In addition, regulations implemented by The Nasdaq National Market requiring stockholder approval for all stock option plans could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. To the extent that new accounting standards make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. We Are Exposed To Additional Costs And Risks Associated With Complying With Increasing And New Regulation Of Corporate Governance And Disclosure Standards. We are spending an increased amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules. Particularly, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by management and the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm in connection with the filing of the annual report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures and have made improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. This process required us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and has resulted in significant additional expenses. While our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2005, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion as of future year-ends, investors may lose confidence in our financial statements, and the price of our stock may suffer. 21 Table of Contents We May Need Additional Capital In The Future And May Not Be Able To Secure Adequate Funds On Terms Acceptable To Us. We have generated substantial operating losses since we began operations in June 1988. We have been engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of a variety of broadband products since inception, which has required, and will continue to require, significant research and development expenditures. As of December 31, 2005 we had an accumulated deficit of $1.9 billion. These losses, among other things, have had and may have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We believe that the proceeds of the stock offering we completed in November 2003, together with our existing liquidity sources, will satisfy our cash requirements for at least the next twelve months, including the final settlement and payment of C-Cube’s pre-merger tax liabilities. However, we may need to raise additional funds if our expectations are incorrect, to fund our operations, to take advantage of unanticipated strategic opportunities or to strengthen our financial position. The stock offering we completed in November 2003 related to a registration statement on Form S-3 declared effective by the SEC in April 2002. In April 2005, we filed another registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC. Pursuant to these registration statements on Form S-3, which have been declared effective by the SEC, we will continue to be able to issue registered common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants to purchase common stock from time to time, up to an aggregate of approximately $200 million, subject to market conditions and our capital needs. Our ability to raise funds may be adversely affected by a number of factors relating to Harmonic, as well as factors beyond our control, including conditions in capital markets and the cable, telecom and satellite industries. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, we actively review potential acquisitions that would complement our existing product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or expand our marketing and sales presence. Any future transaction of this nature could require potentially significant amounts of capital to finance the acquisition and related expenses as well as to integrate operations following a transaction, and could require us to issue our stock and dilute existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, to develop new products or to otherwise respond to competitive pressures. We may raise additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we will not be able to continue developing our products. If Demand For Our Products Increases More Quickly Than We Expect, We May Be Unable To Meet Our Customers’ Requirements. Our net sales increased approximately 4% in 2005 compared to 2004, and approximately 36% in 2004 from 2003. If demand for our products continues to increase, the difficulty of accurately forecasting our customers’ requirements and meeting these requirements will increase. Forecasting to meet customers’ needs is particularly difficult in connection with newer products. Our ability to meet customer demand depends significantly on the availability of components and other materials as well as the ability of our contract manufacturers to scale their production. Furthermore, we purchase several key components, subassemblies and modules used in the manufacture or integration of our products from sole or limited sources. Our ability to meet customer requirements depends in part on our ability to obtain sufficient volumes of these materials in a timely fashion. Also, in recent years, in response to lower net sales and the prolonged economic recession, we significantly reduced our headcount and other expenses. As a result, we may be unable to 22 Table of Contents respond to customer demand that increases more quickly than we expect. If we fail to meet customers’ supply expectations, our net sales would be adversely affected and we may lose business. We Must Be Able To Manage Expenses And Inventory Risks Associated With Meeting The Demand Of Our Customers. If actual orders are materially lower than the indications we receive from our customers, our ability to manage inventory and expenses may be affected. If we enter into purchase commitments to acquire materials, or expend resources to manufacture products, and such products are not purchased by our customers, our business and operating results could suffer. In this regard, our gross margins and operating results have been in the past adversely affected by significant charges for excess and obsolete inventories. In addition, the Company must carefully manage the introduction of next generation products in order to balance potential inventory risks associated with excess quantities of older product lines and forecasts of customer demand for new products. For example, in 2005, we wrote down approximately $8.4 million for obsolete and excess inventory, with a major portion of the write-down being the result of product transitions in certain product lines. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage these product transitions in the future without incurring write-downs for excess inventory or having inadequate supplies of new products to meet customer expectations. We Face Risks Associated With Having Important Facilities And Resources Located In Israel. Harmonic maintains a facility in Caesarea in the State of Israel with a total of 71 employees as of December 31, 2005, or approximately 11% of our workforce. The employees at this facility consist principally of research and development personnel involved in development of certain digital video products. In addition, we have pilot production capabilities at this facility consisting of procurement of subassemblies and modules from Israeli subcontractors and final assembly and test operations. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel, and any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could significantly harm our business. The September 2001 terrorist attacks, the situation in Iraq, the ongoing U.S. war on terrorism, terrorist attacks and hostilities within Israel, and the election of Hamas representatives to a majority of the seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council have heightened these risks. We cannot assure you that current tensions in the Middle East will not adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, most of our employees in Israel are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and several have been called for active military duty recently. We cannot predict the effect of these obligations on Harmonic in the future. We Purchase Several Key Components, Subassemblies And Modules Used In The Manufacture Or Integration Of Our Products From Sole Or Limited Sources, And We Are Increasingly Dependent On Contract Manufacturers. Many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. For example, we depend on LSI Logic for video encoding chips. Our reliance on sole or limited suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our increased reliance on subcontractors since the merger with C-Cube involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies or modules and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components, subassemblies or modules. In particular, certain optical components have in the past been in short supply and are available only from a small number of suppliers, including sole source suppliers. While we expend resources to qualify additional optical component sources, consolidation of suppliers in the industry and the small number of viable alternatives have limited the results of these efforts. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our suppliers. Managing our supplier and contractor relationships is particularly difficult during time periods in which 23 Table of Contents we introduce new products and during time periods in which demand for our products is increasing, especially if demand increases more quickly than we expect. Furthermore, from time to time we assess our relationship with our contract manufacturers. In late 2003, we entered into a three-year agreement with Plexus Services Corp. as our primary contract manufacturer. Difficulties in managing relationships with current contract manufacturers could impede our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and adversely affect our operating results. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply could negatively affect our ability to ship our products on a timely basis, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business. We attempt to limit this risk by maintaining safety stocks of certain components, subassemblies and modules. As a result of this investment in inventories, we have in the past and in the future may be subject to risk of excess and obsolete inventories, which could harm our business, operating results, financial position and liquidity. In this regard, our gross margins and operating results in the past were adversely affected by significant excess and obsolete inventory charges. We Need To Effectively Manage Our Operations And The Cyclical Nature Of Our Business. The cyclical nature of our business has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our personnel, management and other resources. We reduced our work force by approximately 44% between December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2003 due to reduced industry spending and demand for our products. If demand for products increases significantly, we may need to increase our headcount, as we did during 2004, adding 33 employees. In the first quarter of 2005, we added 42 employees in connection with our acquisition of BTL. In connection with the consolidation of our two operating divisions in December 2005, we reduced our workforce by approximately 40 employees. Our ability to manage our business effectively in the future, including any future growth, will require us to train, motivate and manage our employees successfully, to attract and integrate new employees into our overall operations, to retain key employees and to continue to improve our operational, financial and management systems. We May Be Materially Affected By The WEEE And RoHS Directives. The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, which became effective in August 2005, which regulates the collection, recovery, and recycling of waste from electrical and electronic products, and the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) directive, which will become effective in July 2006, which bans the use of certain hazardous materials including lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) that exceed certain specified levels. Under WEEE, we are responsible for financing operations for the collection, treatment, disposal, and recycling of past and future covered products that we produce. We cannot assure you that compliance with WEEE and RoHS will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We Are Liable For C-Cube’s Pre-Merger Tax Liabilities, Including Tax Liabilities Resulting From The Spin-Off Of Its Semiconductor Business. Under the terms of the merger agreement with C-Cube, Harmonic is generally liable for C-Cube’s pre-merger tax liabilities. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $10.0 million of pre-merger tax liabilities remained outstanding and are included in accrued liabilities. We are working with LSI Logic, which acquired C-Cube’s spun-off semiconductor business in June 2001 and assumed its obligations, to develop an approach to settle these obligations, a process which has been underway since the merger in 2000. These liabilities represent estimates of C-Cube’s pre-merger tax obligations to various tax authorities in 11 countries. Harmonic paid $5.8 million of these tax obligations in February 24 Table of Contents 2005, but is unable to predict when the remaining tax obligations will be paid, or in what amount. The full amount of the estimated obligation has been classified as a current liability. To the extent that these obligations are finally settled for less than the amounts provided, Harmonic is required, under the terms of the merger agreement, to refund the difference to LSI Logic. Conversely, if the settlements are more than the $10.0 million pre-merger tax liability after the February 2005 payments, LSI Logic is obligated to reimburse Harmonic. The merger agreement stipulates that Harmonic will be indemnified by the spun-off semiconductor business if the cash reserves are not sufficient to satisfy all of C-Cube’s tax liabilities for periods prior to the merger. If for any reason, the spun-off semiconductor business does not have sufficient cash to pay such taxes, or if there are additional taxes due with respect to the non-semiconductor business and Harmonic cannot be indemnified by LSI Logic, Harmonic generally will remain liable, and such liability could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We May Be Subject To Risks Associated With Other Acquisitions. We have made, continue to consider making and may make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. For example, on February 25, 2005, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Broadcast Technology Ltd., a private U.K. company. In connection with this and other acquisition transactions, we could have difficulty assimilating or retaining the acquired companies’ key personnel and operations, integrating the acquired technology or products into ours or complying with internal control requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as a result of an acquisition. We also may face challenges in achieving the strategic objectives, cost savings or other benefits from these proposed acquisitions and difficulties in expanding our management information systems to accommodate the acquired business. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and significantly increase our expenses. Moreover, our operating results may suffer because of acquisition-related expenses, amortization of intangible assets and impairment of acquired goodwill or intangible assets. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions, or to provide for additional working capital requirements, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we are unable to successfully address any of these risks, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. Cessation Of The Development And Production Of Video Encoding Chips By C-Cube’s Spun-off Semiconductor Business May Adversely Impact Us. The DiviCom business and C-Cube semiconductor business (acquired by LSI Logic in June 2001) collaborated on the production and development of two video encoding microelectronic chips prior to the merger. In connection with the merger, Harmonic and the spun-off semiconductor business entered into a contractual relationship under which Harmonic has access to certain of the spun-off semiconductor business technologies and products on which the DiviCom business previously depended for its product and service offerings. The current term of this agreement is through October 2006, with automatic annual renewal unless terminated by either party in accordance with the agreement provisions. The spun-off semiconductor business is the sole supplier of these chips to Harmonic. Several of these products continue to be important to our business, and we have incorporated these chips into additional products that we have developed. If the spun-off semiconductor business is not able to or does not sustain its development and production efforts in this area our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be harmed. Our Failure To Adequately Protect Our Proprietary Rights May Adversely Affect Us. We currently hold 38 issued U.S. patents and 19 issued foreign patents, and have a number of patent applications pending. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, 25 Table of Contents licensing arrangements, maintaining certain technology as trade secrets and other measures, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. We cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents that we own. In addition, effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries in which we do business or may do business in the future. We believe that patents and patent applications are not currently significant to our business, and investors therefore should not rely on our patent portfolio to give us a competitive advantage over others in our industry. We believe that the future success of our business will depend on our ability to translate the technological expertise and innovation of our personnel into new and enhanced products. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers as needed, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, we have taken in the past, and may take in the future, legal action to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. In order to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products for digital applications, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. Although many companies are often willing to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, we cannot assure you that such agreements will be negotiated on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, when necessary, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could cause our business to suffer. We Or Our Customers May Face Intellectual Property Infringement Claims From Third Parties. Harmonic’s industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the telecommunications industry have extensive patent portfolios. From time to time, third parties, including these leading companies, have asserted and may assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us or our customers. Indeed, a number of third parties, including leading companies, have asserted patent rights to technologies that are important to us. On July 3, 2003, Stanford University and Litton Systems filed a complaint in U.S. District Court for the Central District of California alleging that optical fiber amplifiers incorporated into certain of Harmonic’s products infringe U.S. Patent No. 4859016. This patent expired in September 2003. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, royalties and damages. Harmonic has not been served in the case. At this time, we are unable to determine whether we will be able to settle this litigation on reasonable terms or at all, nor can we predict the impact of an adverse outcome of this litigation if we elect to defend against it. No estimate can be made of the possible range of loss associated with the resolution of this contingency and accordingly, we have not recorded a liability associated with the outcome of a negotiated settlement or an unfavorable verdict in litigation. An unfavorable outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on Harmonic’s business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. 26 Table of Contents Our suppliers and customers may receive similar claims. We have agreed to indemnify some of our suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement. The scope of this indemnity varies, but, in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses (including reasonable attorney’s fees). We Are The Subject Of Securities Class Action Claims And Other Litigation Which, If Adversely Determined, Could Harm Our Business And Operating Results. Between June 28 and August 25, 2000, several actions alleging violations of the federal securities laws by Harmonic and certain of its officers and directors (some of whom are no longer with Harmonic) were filed in or removed to the United States District Court (the “District Court”) for the Northern District of California. The actions subsequently were consolidated. A consolidated complaint, filed on December 7, 2000, was brought on behalf of a purported class of persons who purchased Harmonic’s publicly traded securities between January 19 and June 26, 2000. The complaint also alleged claims on behalf of a purported subclass of persons who purchased C-Cube securities between January 19 and May 3, 2000. In addition to Harmonic and certain of its officers and directors, the complaint also named C-Cube Microsystems Inc. and several of its officers and directors as defendants. The complaint alleged that, by making false or misleading statements regarding Harmonic’s prospects and customers and its acquisition of C-Cube, certain defendants violated sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). The complaint also alleged that certain defendants violated section 14(a) of the Exchange Act and sections 11, 12(a)(2), and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) by filing a false or misleading registration statement, prospectus, and joint proxy in connection with the C-Cube acquisition. On July 3, 2001, the District Court dismissed the consolidated complaint with leave to amend. An amended complaint alleging the same claims against the same defendants was filed on August 13, 2001. Defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint on September 24, 2001. On November 13, 2002, the District Court issued an opinion granting the motions to dismiss the amended complaint without leave to amend. Judgment for defendants was entered on December 2, 2002. On December 12, 2002, plaintiffs filed a motion to amend the judgment and for leave to file an amended complaint pursuant to Rules 59(e) and 15(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. On June 6, 2003, the District Court denied plaintiffs’ motion to amend the judgment and for leave to file an amended complaint. Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal on July 1, 2003. The appeal was heard by a panel of three judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (the “Ninth Circuit”) on February 17, 2005. On November 8, 2005, the Ninth Circuit panel affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded for further proceedings the decision of the District Court. The Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Court’s dismissal of the plaintiffs’ fraud claims under Sections 10(b), 14(a), and 20(a) of the Exchange Act with prejudice, finding that the plaintiffs failed to adequately plead their allegations of fraud. The Ninth Circuit reversed the District Court’s dismissal of the plaintiffs’ claims under Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act, however, finding that those claims did not allege fraud and therefore were subject to only minimal pleading standards. Regarding the secondary liability claim under Section 15 of the Securities Act, the Ninth Circuit reversed the dismissal of that claim against Anthony J. Ley, Harmonic’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and affirmed the dismissal of that claim against Harmonic, while granting leave to amend. The Ninth Circuit remanded the surviving claims to the District Court for further proceedings. On November 22, 2005, both the Harmonic defendants and the plaintiffs petitioned the Ninth Circuit for a rehearing of the appeal. On February 16, 2006 the Ninth Circuit denied both petitions. A derivative action purporting to be on behalf of Harmonic was filed against its then-current directors in the Superior Court for the County of Santa Clara on September 5, 2000. Harmonic also was named as a nominal defendant. The complaint is based on allegations similar to those found in the securities class action and claims that the defendants 27 Table of Contents breached their fiduciary duties by, among other things, causing Harmonic to violate federal securities laws. The derivative action was removed to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on September 20, 2000. All deadlines in this action were stayed pending resolution of the motions to dismiss the securities class action. On July 29, 2003, the Court approved the parties’ stipulation to dismiss this derivative action without prejudice and to toll the applicable limitations period. The limitations period is tolled until fourteen days after (1) defendants provide plaintiff with a copy of the mandate issued by the Ninth Court in the securities action or (2) either party provides written notice of termination of the tolling period, whichever is first. A second derivative action purporting to be on behalf of Harmonic was filed in the Superior Court for the County of Santa Clara on May 15, 2003. It alleges facts similar to those previously alleged in the securities class action and the federal derivative action. The complaint names as defendants former and current Harmonic officers and directors, along with former officers and directors of C-Cube Microsystems, Inc., who were named in the securities class action. The complaint also names Harmonic as a nominal defendant. The complaint alleges claims for abuse of control, gross mismanagement, and waste of corporate assets against the Harmonic defendants, and claims for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, and negligent misrepresentation against all defendants. On July 22, 2003, the Court approved the parties’ stipulation to stay the case pending resolution of the appeal in the securities class action. Although the parties initially agreed in principle to a dismissal without prejudice on similar terms as in the federal derivative action, after further discussion, the parties decided that the stay currently in place suffices to protect their respective interests. Based on its review of the surviving claims in the securities class actions, Harmonic believes that it has meritorious defenses and intends to defend itself vigorously. There can be no assurance, however, that Harmonic will prevail. No estimate can be made of the possible range of loss associated with the resolution of each of these claims, and, accordingly, Harmonic has not recorded a liability. An unfavorable outcome of any of these litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on Harmonic’s business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. On July 3, 2003, Stanford University and Litton Systems filed a complaint in U.S. District Court for the Central District of California alleging that optical fiber amplifiers incorporated into certain of Harmonic’s products infringe U.S. Patent No. 4859016. This patent expired in September 2003. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, royalties and damages. Harmonic has not been served in the case. At this time, we are unable to determine whether we will be able to settle this litigation on reasonable terms or at all, nor can we predict the impact of an adverse outcome of this litigation if we elect to defend against it. No estimate can be made of the possible range of loss associated with the resolution of this contingency and accordingly, we have not recorded a liability associated with the outcome of a negotiated settlement or an unfavorable verdict in litigation. An unfavorable outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on Harmonic’s business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. The Terrorist Attacks Of 2001 And The Ongoing Threat Of Terrorism Have Created Great Uncertainty And May Continue To Harm Our Business. Current conditions in the U.S. and global economies are uncertain. The terrorist attacks in 2001 created many economic and political uncertainties that have severely impacted the global economy. We experienced a further decline in demand for our products after the attacks. The long-term effects of the attacks, the situation in Iraq and the ongoing war on terrorism on our business and on the global economy remain unknown. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks has created additional uncertainty and makes it difficult to estimate the stability and strength of the U.S. and other economies and the impact of economic conditions on our business. 28 Table of Contents We Rely On A Continuous Power Supply To Conduct Our Operations, And Any Electrical And Natural Gas Crisis Could Disrupt Our Operations And Increase Our Expenses. We rely on a continuous power supply for manufacturing and to conduct our business operations. Interruptions in electrical power supplies in California in the early part of 2001 could recur in the future. In addition, the cost of electricity and natural gas has risen significantly. Power outages could disrupt our manufacturing and business operations and those of many of our suppliers, and could cause us to fail to meet production schedules and commitments to customers and other third parties. Any disruption to our operations or those of our suppliers could result in damage to our current and prospective business relationships and could result in lost revenue and additional expenses, thereby harming our business and operating results. The Markets In Which We, Our Customers And Suppliers Operate Are Subject To The Risk Of Earthquakes And Other Natural Disasters. Our headquarters and the majority of our operations are located in California, which is prone to earthquakes, and some of the other locations in which we, our customers and suppliers conduct business are prone to natural disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by any such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties and suffer significant financial losses. Furthermore, we rely on third party manufacturers for the production of many of our products, and any disruption in the business or operations of such manufacturers could adversely impact our business. In addition, if there is a major earthquake or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which our significant customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses, or sustained business interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to continue their purchase of products from us. A major earthquake or other natural disaster in the markets in which we, our customers or suppliers operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Stock Price May Be Volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, and is likely to fluctuate in the future. In addition, the securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of the securities of technology companies have been especially volatile. Investors may be unable to resell their shares of our common stock at or above their purchase price. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. Some Anti-Takeover Provisions Contained In Our Certificate Of Incorporation, Bylaws And Stockholder Rights Plan, As Well As Provisions Of Delaware Law, Could Impair A Takeover Attempt. Harmonic has provisions in its certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by the Harmonic Board of Directors. These include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to Harmonic common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, directors and officers; • limiting the ability of Harmonic stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of Harmonic stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to the Harmonic Board of Directors; • controlling the procedures for conduct and scheduling of Board and stockholder meetings; and 29 Table of Contents • providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control or management of Harmonic. In addition, Harmonic has adopted a stockholder rights plan. The rights are not intended to prevent a takeover of Harmonic, and we believe these rights will help Harmonic’s negotiations with any potential acquirers. However, if the Board of Directors believes that a particular acquisition is undesirable, the rights may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging that acquisition. The rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire Harmonic on terms or in a manner not approved by the Harmonic Board of Directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon redemption of the rights. As a Delaware corporation, Harmonic also is subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, our stockholder rights plan or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for Harmonic stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of Harmonic common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for Harmonic common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 