Item 1A. Risk Factors We depend on cable, satellite and telecom industry capital spending for a substantial portion of our revenue and any decrease or delay in capital spending in these industries would negatively impact our operating results and financial condition or cash flows. A significant portion of our sales have been derived from sales to cable television, satellite and telecommunications operators, and we expect these sales to constitute a significant portion of net sales for the foreseeable future. Demand for our products will depend on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by cable television operators, satellite operators, telecommunications companies and broadcasters for constructing and upgrading their systems. These capital spending patterns are dependent on a variety of factors, including: • access to financing; • annual budget cycles; • the impact of industry consolidation; • the status of federal, local and foreign government regulation of telecommunications and television broadcasting; • overall demand for communication services and consumer acceptance of new video and data services; • evolving industry standards and network architectures; • competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; 16 Table of Contents • discretionary customer spending patterns; and • general economic conditions. In the past, specific factors contributing to reduced capital spending have included: • uncertainty related to development of digital video industry standards; • delays associated with the evaluation of new services, new standards and system architectures by many operators; • emphasis on generating revenue from existing customers by operators instead of new construction or network upgrades; • a reduction in the amount of capital available to finance projects of our customers and potential customers; • proposed and completed business combinations and divestitures by our customers and regulatory review thereof; • weak or uncertain economic and financial conditions in domestic and international markets; and • bankruptcies and financial restructuring of major customers. The financial difficulties of certain of our customers and changes in our customers’ deployment plans adversely affected our business in the past. Recently, economic conditions in the countries in which we operate and sell products have been very weak, and global economic conditions and financial markets have experienced a severe downturn stemming from a multitude of factors, including adverse credit conditions, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, rapid changes in foreign exchange rates, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns and other factors. Economic growth in the U.S. and in many other countries has slowed significantly or receded recently, and economic growth is expected by many to remain sluggish during 2010. The severity or length of time that these adverse economic and financial market conditions may persist is unknown. During challenging economic times, and in tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce capital expenditures, which in turn often results in lower demand for our products. Further, we have a number of customers internationally to whom sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Over the past two years, the value of the U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly against many foreign currencies, which includes the local currencies of many of our international customers. If the U.S. dollar appreciates relative to the local currencies of our customers, then the price of our products correspondingly increases for such customers. These factors could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. If the U.S. dollar would weaken against many major currencies, there is no assurance that a weaker dollar will lead to growth in our sales. Financial difficulties among our customers could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, industry consolidation has in the past constrained, and may in the future constrain capital spending among our customers. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will maintain or increase our net sales in the future. Also, if our product portfolio and product development plans do not position us well to capture an increased portion of the capital spending of U.S. cable operators and other major customers, our revenue may decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of one or more of our key customers, or a failure to diversify our customer base, could harm our business. Historically, a majority of our sales have been to relatively few customers, and due in part to the consolidation of ownership of cable television and direct broadcast satellite systems, we expect this customer concentration to continue in the foreseeable future. Sales to our ten largest customers in 2009, 2008 and 2007 accounted for approximately 47%, 58% and 53% of net sales, respectively. Although we are attempting to broaden our customer base by penetrating new markets, such as the telecommunications and broadcast markets, and to further expand internationally, we expect to see continuing industry consolidation and customer concentration due in part to the significant capital costs of constructing broadband networks. For example, Comcast acquired AT&T Broadband in 2002, thereby creating the largest U.S. cable operator, reaching approximately 24 million subscribers. The sale of Adelphia Communications’ cable systems to Comcast and Time Warner Cable has led to further industry consolidation. NTL and Telewest, the two largest cable operators in the UK, completed their merger in 2006. In the DBS market, The News Corporation Ltd. acquired an indirect controlling interest in Hughes Electronics, the parent company of DIRECTV, in 2003, and News Corporation subsequently sold its interest in DIRECTV to Liberty Media in February 2008. In the telco market, AT&T completed its acquisition of Bell South in December 2006. In the fiscal year 2009, sales to Comcast accounted for 16% of our net sales. In the fiscal year 2008, sales to Comcast and EchoStar accounted for 20% and 12%, respectively, of our net sales. The loss of Comcast, EchoStar or any other significant customer or any reduction in orders by Comcast, EchoStar or any significant customer, or our failure to qualify our products with a significant customer could adversely affect our business, operating results and liquidity. The loss of, or any reduction in orders from, a significant customer would harm our business if we were not able to offset any such loss or reduction with increased orders from other customers. In addition, historically, we have been dependent upon capital spending in the cable and satellite industry. We are attempting to diversify our customer base beyond cable and satellite customers, including the telco market. Several major telcos have rebuilt or are upgrading their networks to offer bundled video, voice and data services. In order to be successful in this market, we may need to continue to build alliances with telco equipment manufacturers, adapt our products for telco applications, take orders at prices resulting in lower margins, and build internal expertise to handle the particular contractual and technical demands of the telco industry. In addition, telco video deployments, including recent trials of mobile video services, are subject to delays in completion, as video processing technologies and video business models are relatively new to most telcos and many of their largest suppliers. Implementation issues with our products or those of other vendors have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in project completion for our customers and delay the recognition of revenue by Harmonic. Further, during challenging economic times, and in tight credit markets, many customers, including telcos, may delay or reduce capital expenditures. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues from telco customers and other markets, or that we can do so profitably, and any failure to increase revenues and profits from these customers could adversely affect our business. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, causing our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future, on an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of several factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include: • the level and timing of capital spending of our customers, both in the U.S. and in foreign markets; 18 Table of Contents • access to financing, including credit, for capital spending by our customers; • economic and financial conditions specific to the cable, satellite and telco industries; • changes in market demand; • the timing and amount of orders, especially from significant customers; • the timing of revenue recognition from solution contracts, which may span several quarters; • the timing of revenue recognition on sales arrangements, which may include multiple deliverables; • the timing of completion of projects; • competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by our competitors; • seasonality, with fewer construction and upgrade projects typically occurring in winter months and otherwise being affected by inclement weather; • our unpredictable sales cycles; • the level and mix of international sales; • the amount and timing of sales to telcos, which are particularly difficult to predict; • new product introductions by our competitors or by us; • our development of custom products and software; • changes in domestic and international regulatory environments; • market acceptance of new or existing products; • the evaluation of new services, new standards and system architectures by many operators; • the cost and availability of components, subassemblies and modules; • the mix of our customer base and sales channels; • the mix of products sold and the effect it has on gross margins; • changes in our operating expenses and extraordinary expenses; • impairment of goodwill and intangibles; 19 Table of Contents • the outcome of litigation; • write-downs of inventory and investments; • the impact of applicable accounting guidance that requires us to record the fair value of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan awards as compensation expense; • changes in our tax rate, including as a result of changes in our valuation allowance against certain of our deferred tax assets, and changes in state tax laws including apportionment, as a result of proposed amended tax rules related to the deferral of foreign earnings; • the impact of applicable accounting guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes that requires us to establish reserves for uncertain tax positions and accrue potential tax penalties and interest; • the impact of applicable accounting guidance on business combinations that requires us to record charges for certain acquisition related costs and expenses instead of capitalizing these costs, and generally to expense restructuring costs associated with a business combination subsequent to the acquisition date; and • general economic conditions. The timing of deployment of our equipment can be subject to a number of other risks, including the availability of skilled engineering and technical personnel, the availability of other equipment such as compatible set top boxes, our customers’ ability to negotiate and enter into rights agreements with video content owners that provide the customers with the right to deliver certain video content, and our customers’ need for local franchise and licensing approvals. In addition, we often recognize a substantial portion, or majority, of our revenues in the last month of the quarter. We establish our expenditure levels for product development and other operating expenses based on projected sales levels, and expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, variations in timing of sales can cause significant fluctuations in operating results. As a result of these factors, or other factors, our operating results in one or more future periods may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. The markets for digital video systems are extremely competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change and declining average selling prices. Pressure on average selling prices was particularly severe during previous economic downturns as equipment suppliers competed aggressively for customers’ reduced capital spending, and we have experienced similar pressure during the current economic slowdown. Our competitors for edge and access products include corporations such as Cisco Systems, Motorola and Arris. In our video processing products, we compete broadly with products from vertically integrated system suppliers including Motorola, Cisco Systems, Technicolor and Ericsson and, in certain product lines, with a number of smaller companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. Many of these large organizations are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in these markets. They often have broader product lines and market focus and may not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. These competitors may also be able to bundle their products together to meet the needs of a 20 Table of Contents particular customer and may be capable of delivering more complete solutions than we are able to provide. Further, some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, and they have offered and in the future may offer their products at lower prices than we do or offer more attractive financing terms, which has in the past and may in the future cause us to lose sales or to reduce our prices in response to competition. Any reduction in sales or reduced prices for our products would adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, many of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have and therefore have more long-standing and established relationships with domestic and foreign customers. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, which would harm our business. If any of our competitors’ products or technologies were to become the industry standard, our business could be seriously harmed. If our competitors are successful in bringing their products to market earlier than us, or if these products are more technologically capable than ours, our sales could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain companies that have not had a large presence in the broadband communications equipment market have recently begun to expand their presence in this market through mergers and acquisitions. The continued consolidation of our competitors could have a significant negative impact on us. Further, our competitors, particularly companies that offer products that are competitive with our digital video systems, may bundle their products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or which may require us to lower our selling prices, resulting in lower revenues and decreased gross margins. Our future growth depends on market acceptance of several broadband services, on the adoption of new broadband technologies and on several other broadband industry trends. Future demand for our products will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of emerging broadband services, including digital video, VOD, HDTV, IPTV, mobile video services, and very high-speed data services. The effective delivery of these services will depend, in part, on a variety of new network architectures and standards, such as: • video compression standards such as MPEG-4 AVC/H.264 for both standard definition and high definition services; • fiber to the premises, or FTTP, and digital subscriber line, or DSL, networks designed to facilitate the delivery of video services by telcos; • the greater use of protocols such as IP; • the further adoption of bandwidth-optimization techniques, such as switched digital video and DOCSIS 3.0; and • the introduction of new consumer devices, such as advanced set-top boxes, personal video recorders, or PVRs and a variety of “smart phone” mobile devices, such as the iPhone. If adoption of these emerging services and/or technologies is not as widespread or as rapid as we expect, or if we are unable to develop new products based on these technologies on a timely basis, our net sales growth will be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Furthermore, other technological, industry and regulatory trends will affect the growth of our business. These trends include the following: • convergence, or the need of many network operators to deliver a package of video, voice and data services to consumers, including mobile delivery options; • the increasing availability of traditional broadcast video content on the Internet; • the entry of telcos into the video business; • the use of digital video by businesses, governments and educational institutions; • efforts by regulators and governments in the U.S. and abroad to encourage the adoption of broadband and digital technologies; • the extent and nature of regulatory attitudes towards such issues as network neutrality, competition between operators, access by third parties to networks of other operators, local franchising requirements for telcos to offer video, and other new services such as mobile video; and • the outcome of litigation and negotiations between content owners and service providers regarding rights of service providers to store and distribute recorded broadcast content. In 2006, Cablevision announced a plan to offer a network-based digital video recorder service to its customers. In order for Cablevision and other cable companies to deliver a network-based digital video recorder service broadly to their customers, they need to continue to enhance their networks and distribution capabilities by upgrading their video distribution hardware and software, which we believe will enhance the demand for our products and services. Shortly following Cablevision’s announcement that it planned to offer a network-based digital video recorder service to its customers, several major entertainment networks and video production studios sued Cablevision in federal court to enjoin Cablevision from offering this service without securing licensing or programming rights from the content providers. This case was resolved in favor of Cablevision. However, in the event that similar challenges against cable operators offering network-based digital video recorder services are successful, cable operators may not be able to provide a network-based digital video recorder service to their customers, which could reduce the growth in demand for our products and services. We need to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely manner to remain competitive. Broadband communications markets are characterized by continuing technological advancement, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. However, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce these products if, among other things, our products: • are not cost effective; • are not brought to market in a timely manner; • are not in accordance with evolving industry standards and architectures; 22 Table of Contents • fail to achieve market acceptance; or • are ahead of the market. We are currently developing and marketing products based on recently established video compression standards. Encoding products based on the MPEG-2 compression standards have represented a significant portion of our sales since our acquisition of DiviCom in 2000. Newer standards, such as MPEG-4 AVC/H.264, have been adopted which provide significantly greater compression efficiency, thereby making more bandwidth available to operators. The availability of more bandwidth is particularly important to those operators seeking to launch, or expand, HDTV services. We have developed and launched products, including HD encoders, based on these new standards in order to remain competitive and are devoting considerable resources to this effort. In addition, we have recently launched an encoding platform which is capable of being configured for both MPEG-2 and MPEG-4, in both standard definition and HD formats. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in the near future, or at all, or that competitors will not take significant market share in HD encoding. At the same time, we need to devote development resources to the existing MPEG-2 standard which our cable customers continue to require. Also, to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into any necessary technology development or licensing agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we fail to develop and market new products, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Conditions and changes in the national and global economic environments may adversely affect our business and financial results. Adverse economic conditions in markets in which we operate may harm our business. Recently, economic conditions in the countries in which we operate and sell products have been weak, and global financial markets have experienced a severe downturn stemming from a multitude of factors, including adverse credit conditions, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, rapid changes in foreign exchange rates, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns and other factors. Economic growth in the U.S. and in many other countries slowed in the fourth quarter of 2007, remained slow or stopped in 2008, and slowed further or remained relatively flat in 2009 in the U.S. and internationally. The current global economic slowdown led many of our customers to decrease their expenditures in 2009, and we believe that this slowdown caused certain of our customers to reduce or delay orders for our products. Many of our international customers, particularly those in emerging markets, have been exposed to tight credit markets and depreciating currencies, further restricting their ability to build out or upgrade their networks. Some customers have difficulty in servicing or retiring existing debt and the financial constraints on certain international customers required us to significantly increase our allowance for doubtful accounts in the fourth quarter of 2008. During challenging economic times, and in tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce capital expenditures. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets remain weak or deteriorate further, we may experience a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Broadband communications markets are characterized by rapid technological change. Broadband communications markets are subject to rapid changes, making it difficult to accurately predict the markets’ future growth rates, sizes or technological directions. In view of the evolving nature of these markets, it is possible that cable television operators, telcos or other suppliers of broadband wireless and satellite services will decide to adopt alternative architectures or 23 Table of Contents technologies that are incompatible with our current or future products. Also, decisions by customers to adopt new technologies or products are often delayed by extensive evaluation and qualification processes and can result in delays in sales of current products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture and sell products that incorporate or are compatible with these new architectures or technologies, our business will suffer. If sales forecasted for a particular period are not realized in that period due to the unpredictable sales cycles of our products, our operating results for that period will be harmed. The sales cycles of many of our products, particularly our newer products and products sold internationally, are typically unpredictable and usually involve: • a significant technical evaluation in the laboratory and often in the field; • a commitment of capital and other resources by cable, satellite, and other network operators; • time required to engineer the deployment of new technologies or new broadband services; • testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations; and • test marketing of new services with subscribers. For these and other reasons, our sales cycles generally last three to nine months, but can last up to 12 months. If orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter do not occur in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could be substantially lower than anticipated. In this regard, our sales cycles with our current and potential satellite and telco customers are particularly unpredictable. Orders may include multiple elements, the timing of delivery of which may impact the timing of revenue recognition. Additionally, our sales arrangements may include testing and acceptance of new technologies. The timing of the completion of acceptance testing is difficult to predict and may impact the timing of revenue recognition. Quarterly and annual results may fluctuate significantly due to revenue recognition policies and the timing of the receipt of orders. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from solution sales that principally consist of and include the system design, manufacture, test, installation and integration of equipment to the specifications of our customers, including equipment acquired from third parties to be integrated with our products. Revenue forecasts for solution contracts are based on the estimated timing of the system design, installation and integration of projects. Because solution contracts generally span several quarters and revenue recognition is based on progress under the contract, the timing of revenue is difficult to predict and could result in lower than expected revenue in any particular quarter. We must be able to manage expenses and inventory risks associated with meeting the demand of our customers. If actual orders are materially lower than the indications we receive from our customers, our ability to manage inventory and expenses may be affected. If we enter into purchase commitments to acquire materials, or expend resources to manufacture products, and such products are not purchased by our customers, our business and operating results could suffer. In this regard, our gross margins and operating results have been in the past adversely affected by significant charges for excess and obsolete inventories. 24 Table of Contents In addition, we must carefully manage the introduction of next generation products in order to balance potential inventory risks associated with excess quantities of older product lines and forecasts of customer demand for new products. For example, in the first quarter of 2009, we wrote down approximately $5.8 million of obsolete inventory for product discontinuances associated with the Scopus acquisition. Also, in 2007, we wrote down approximately $7.6 million of net obsolete and excess inventory, with a significant portion of the write-down being due to product transitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage these product transitions in the future without incurring write-downs for excess inventory or having inadequate supplies of new products to meet customer expectations. Further, we recently executed an agreement with an Israeli contract manufacturer to assume the manufacturing of products previously manufactured by Scopus. Under the terms of this agreement, we have transferred equipment, certain employees and consigned inventory to this contract manufacturer. There can be no assurance that this transfer of manufacturing responsibilities will be successful, and we may incur unforeseen costs and delays in the delivery of products to our customers. We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions, and such acquisitions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. As part of our business strategy, from time to time, we have acquired, and continue to consider acquiring, businesses, technologies, assets and product lines that we believe complement or expand our existing business. For example, on March 12, 2009, we completed the acquisition of Scopus Video Networks Ltd. pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger announced on December 22, 2008. In addition, on December 8, 2006, we acquired the video networking software business of Entone Technologies, Inc. and, on July 31, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Rhozet Corporation. We expect to make additional acquisitions in the future. We may face challenges as a result of these activities, because acquisitions entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation and integration of acquired operations, technologies and/or products; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition transaction; • the diversion of management’s attention from the regular operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations; • difficulties in integrating acquired companies’ systems, controls, policies and procedures to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • adverse effects on new and existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • channel conflicts and disputes between distributors and other partners of us and the acquired companies; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and practices; 25 Table of Contents • difficulties in bringing acquired products and businesses into compliance with applicable legal requirements in jurisdictions in which we operate and sell products; • substantial charges for acquisition costs, which are required to be expensed under recent accounting guidance on business combinations; • substantial charges for the amortization of certain purchased intangible assets, deferred stock compensation or similar items; • substantial impairments to goodwill or intangible assets in the event that an acquisition proves to be less valuable than the price we paid for it; and • delays in realizing or failure to realize the benefits of an acquisition. For example, the government grants that Scopus received for research and development expenditures limits its ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel, and if Scopus fails to satisfy specified conditions, it may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties and may be subject to criminal charges. Also, we closed all operations and product lines related to Broadcast Technology Limited, which we acquired in 2005 and we have recorded charges associated with that closure. Competition within our industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies, assets and product lines has been, and may in the future continue to be, intense. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to consummate, we may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms or because the target is acquired by another company. Furthermore, in the event that we are able to identify and consummate any future acquisitions, we could: • issue equity securities which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt; • incur significant acquisition-related expenses; • assume contingent liabilities; or • expend significant cash. These financing activities or expenditures could harm our business, operating results and financial condition or the price of our common stock. Alternatively, due to difficulties in the capital and credit markets, we may be unable to secure capital on acceptable terms, or at all, to complete acquisitions. Moreover, even if we do obtain benefits from acquisitions in the form of increased sales and earnings, there may be a delay between the time when the expenses associated with an acquisition are incurred and the time when we recognize such benefits. If we are unable to successfully address any of these risks, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. 26 Table of Contents We may not realize the anticipated improvement in our operating results and other benefits expected from our recently completed acquisition of Scopus, which could adversely affect our business and cause our stock price to decline. Our recently completed acquisition of Scopus involved the integration of two companies that had previously operated independently. The integration of two previously independent companies is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. While the integration process began in March 2009, when the Scopus acquisition was consummated, it has taken some time to substantially complete the integration. It is still possible that the process of combining the companies could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, and employees. In addition, the successful combination of the companies requires the dedication of significant management resources, which could temporarily divert attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. There can be no assurance that these challenges will be met, and that we will realize benefits from the acquisition of Scopus. If we are unable to realize these benefits, our business and operating results may be adversely affected, and our stock price may decline. We depend on our international sales and are subject to the risks associated with international operations, which may negatively affect our operating results. Sales to customers outside of the U.S. in 2009, 2008 and 2007 represented 49%, 44% and 44% of net sales, respectively, and we expect that international sales will continue to represent a meaningful portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our contract manufacturing occurs overseas. Our international operations, the international operations of our contract manufacturers and our efforts to increase sales in international markets are subject to a number of risks, including: • a slowdown in international economies, which may adversely affect our customers’ capital spending; • changes in foreign government regulations and telecommunications standards; • import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • a significant reliance on distributors, resellers and other third parties to sell our products and solutions; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, especially from smaller customers and resellers; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, treaties and technical standards; • fulfilling “country of origin” requirements for our products for certain customers; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; 27 Table of Contents • political and economic instability, including risks related to terrorist activity; and • changes in economic policies by foreign governments. In the past, certain of our international customers accumulated significant levels of debt and have undertaken reorganizations and financial restructurings, including bankruptcy proceedings. Even where these restructurings have been completed, in some cases these customers have not been in a position to purchase new equipment at levels we have seen in the past. While our international sales and operating expenses have typically been denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales or profitability in that country. A portion of our European business is denominated in Euros, which subjects us to increased foreign currency risk. Gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in operating results. Furthermore, payment cycles for international customers are typically longer than those for customers in the U.S. Unpredictable sales cycles could cause us to fail to meet or exceed the expectations of security analysts and investors for any given period. Our operations outside the United States also require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, our operations in countries outside the United States are subject to the FCPA and similar laws, which prohibits United States companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Our activities in countries outside the United States create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents, including those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, which could be in violation of the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to the FCPA. However, we cannot assure you that our policies, procedures and programs will prevent violations of the FCPA or similar laws by our employees or agents, particularly as we expand our international operations. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could result in criminal or civil sanctions, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any or all of these factors could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We face risks associated with having important facilities and resources located in Israel. When we completed the acquisition of Scopus in March 2009, Scopus was headquartered and had a substantial majority of its operations in Israel. This acquisition resulted in the addition of 221 employees based in Israel. In addition, we maintain a facility in Caesarea in Israel with a total of 84 employees. The employees at the Caesarea facility consist principally of research and development personnel. We have pilot production capabilities at this facility consisting of procurement of subassemblies and modules from Israeli subcontractors and final assembly and test operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of 229 employees based in Israel, or approximately 27% of our workforce. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel, and this influence has increased with the acquisition of Scopus. Any significant conflict involving Israel could have a direct effect on our business or that of our Israeli subcontractors, in the form of physical damage or injury, reluctance to travel within or to Israel by our Israeli and foreign employees or those of our subcontractors, or the loss of employees to active military duty. Most of our employees in Israel are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and several have been called for active 28 Table of Contents military duty in recent years. In the event that more employees are called to active duty, certain of our research and development activities may be adversely affected and significantly delayed. In addition, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could significantly harm our business. Terrorist attacks and hostilities within Israel, the hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah, and Israel and Hamas, the conflict between Hamas and Fatah, as well as tensions between Israel and Iran, have also heightened these risks. Current or future tensions in the Middle East may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Fluctuations in our future effective tax rates could affect our future operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have evaluated the need for a valuation allowance based on historical evidence, trends in profitability, expectations of future taxable income and implemented tax planning strategies. As such in 2008, we determined that a valuation allowance was no longer necessary for certain of our U.S. deferred tax assets because, based on the available evidence, we concluded that a realization of these net deferred tax assets was more likely than not. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance for certain foreign deferred tax assets and recorded a valuation allowance on certain of our California deferred tax assets in the first quarter of 2009 as a result of our expectations of future usage of the California deferred tax assets. We are required to periodically review our deferred tax assets and determine whether, based on available evidence, a valuation allowance is necessary. In the event that, in the future, we determine an additional valuation allowance is necessary with respect to our U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets, we would incur a charge equal to the amount of the valuation allowance in the period in which we made such determination as a discrete item, and this could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations for such period. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex global tax regulations. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If the estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate tax assessment, a further charge to expense would result. We are in the process of expanding our international operations and staffing to better support our expansion into international markets. This expansion includes the implementation of an international structure that includes, among other things, an international support center in Europe, a research and development cost-sharing arrangement, certain licenses and other contractual arrangements between us and our wholly-owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries. As a result of these changes, we anticipate that our consolidated pre-tax income will be subject to foreign tax at relatively lower tax rates when compared to the United States federal statutory tax rate and, as a consequence, our effective income tax rate is expected to be lower than the United States federal statutory rate. However, the current administration has begun to put forward proposals that may, if enacted, limit the ability of U.S. companies to continue to defer U.S. income taxes on foreign income. In addition, recent statements from the IRS have indicated their intent to seek greater disclosure by companies of their reserves for uncertain tax positions. Our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected if tax authorities challenge our international tax structure or if the relative mix of United States and international income changes for any reason. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our income tax rate will be less than the United States federal statutory rate in future periods. Changes in telecommunications legislation and regulations could harm our prospects and future sales. Changes in telecommunications legislation and regulations in the U.S. and other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, regulations dealing with access by competitors to the networks of incumbent operators could slow or stop additional construction or expansion by these operators. Increased regulation of our customers’ pricing or service offerings could limit their investments and consequently the sales of our products. Changes in regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Negative conditions in the global credit and financial markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. The recent negative conditions in the global credit and financial markets have had an adverse impact on the liquidity of certain investments. In the event we need or desire to access funds from the other short-term investments that we hold, it is possible that we may not be able to do so due to market conditions. If a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par or our cost, we may incur a loss. Further, rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an impairment charge. Our inability to sell all or some of our short-term investments at par or our cost, or rating downgrades of issuers of these securities, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, we held approximately $10.7 million of auction rate securities, or ARSs, which were invested in preferred securities in closed-end mutual funds. The recent negative conditions in the credit markets restricted our ability to liquidate holdings of ARSs because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. During 2008, we were able to sell $24.1 million of ARSs through successful auctions and redemptions. The remaining balance of $10.7 million in ARSs that we held at December 31, 2008 was sold at par plus interest in February 2009. In addition, we invest our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of investment vehicles in a number of countries with and in the custody of financial institutions with high credit ratings. While our investment policy and strategy attempt to manage interest rate risk, limit credit risk, and only invest in what we view as very high-quality securities, the outlook for our investment holdings is dependent on general economic conditions, interest rate trends and volatility in the financial marketplace, which can all affect the income that we receive, the value of our investments, and our ability to sell them. During 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.8 million relating to an investment in an unsecured debt instrument of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. We believe that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in unrealized or realized losses relating to other than temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional impairments may be charged to income in future periods. In order to manage our growth, we must be successful in addressing management succession issues and attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. We must successfully manage transition and replacement issues that may result from the departure or retirement of members of our senior management. For example, Mr. Dickson, our Chief Financial Officer, recently announced his intention to retire from Harmonic during 2010 and is expected to continue in his current position until his replacement is hired and an appropriate transition period has elapsed. We cannot assure you that changes of management personnel would not cause disruption to our operations or customer relationships, or a decline in our financial results. In addition, we are dependent on our ability to retain and motivate high caliber personnel, in addition to attracting new personnel. Competition for qualified management, technical and other personnel can be intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Competitors and others have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our employees. While our employees are required to sign standard agreements concerning confidentiality and ownership of inventions, we generally do not have employment contracts or non-competition agreements with any of our personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring 30 Table of Contents required personnel, particularly senior management and engineers and other technical personnel, could negatively affect our business. Accounting guidance and stock exchange regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect our earnings, our ability to raise capital and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used equity compensation, including stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan awards, as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that our equity incentive plans are an essential tool to link the long-term interests of stockholders and employees, especially executive management, and serve to motivate management to make decisions that will, in the long run, give the best returns to stockholders. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued guidance that requires us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock options, restricted stock unit grants and employee stock purchase plan awards for all periods from January 1, 2006. This guidance has negatively impacted and will continue to negatively impact our earnings and may affect our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms. For 2009, stock-based compensation expense recognized under this guidance was $10.6 million, which consisted of stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock units, stock options and employee stock purchases plan awards. In addition, regulations implemented by the NASDAQ Stock Market requiring stockholder approval for all equity incentive plans could make it more difficult for us to grant options or restricted stock units to employees in the future. To the extent that new accounting guidance make it more difficult or expensive to grant options or restricted stock units to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. We are exposed to additional costs and risks associated with complying with increasing regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. We are spending an increased amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by our independent registered public accounting firm in connection with the filing of the annual report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures and have made improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. This process required us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and has resulted in significant additional expenses. While our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material respects as of December 31, 2009, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing and that of our independent registered public accounting firm in future periods. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation as of future year-ends, investors may lose confidence in our financial statements, and the price of our stock may suffer. We may need additional capital in the future and may not be able to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us. We have generated substantial operating losses since we began operations in June 1988. We have been engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of a variety of video products and system solutions since inception, which has required, and will continue to require, significant research and development expenditures. As of December 31, 2009 we had an accumulated deficit of 31 Table of Contents $1.9 billion. These losses, among other things, have had and may have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We believe that our existing liquidity sources will satisfy our cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need to raise additional funds if our expectations are incorrect, to take advantage of unanticipated strategic opportunities, to satisfy our other liabilities, or to strengthen our financial position. Our ability to raise funds may be adversely affected by a number of factors relating to Harmonic, as well as factors beyond our control, including weakness in the economic conditions in markets in which we operate and into which we sell our products, increased uncertainty in the financial, capital and credit markets, as well as conditions in the cable and satellite industries. In particular, companies are experiencing difficulty raising capital from issuances of debt or equity securities in the current capital market environment, and may also have difficulty securing credit financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, we actively review potential acquisitions that would complement our existing product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or expand our marketing and sales presence. Any future transaction of this nature could require potentially significant amounts of capital to finance the acquisition and related expenses as well as to integrate operations following a transaction, and could require us to issue our stock and dilute existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, to develop new products or to otherwise respond to competitive pressures. We may raise additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. For example, debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. If adequate funds are not available, we will not be able to continue developing our products. If demand for our products increases more quickly than we expect, we may be unable to meet our customers’ requirements. If demand for our products increases, the difficulty of accurately forecasting our customers’ requirements and meeting these requirements will increase. Forecasting to meet customers’ needs and effectively managing our supply chain is particularly difficult in connection with newer products. Our ability to meet customer demand depends significantly on the availability of components and other materials as well as the ability of our contract manufacturers to scale their production. Furthermore, we purchase several key components, subassemblies and modules used in the manufacture or integration of our products from sole or limited sources. Our ability to meet customer requirements depends in part on our ability to obtain sufficient volumes of these materials in a timely fashion. Recent increases in demand on our suppliers and subcontractors from other parties have caused sporadic shortages of certain components and products. In response, we have increased our inventories of certain components and products and expedited shipments of our products when necessary, which has increased our costs. Also, in previous years, in response to lower sales and the prolonged economic recession, we significantly reduced our headcount and other expenses. As a result, we may be unable to respond to customer demand that increases more quickly than we expect. If we fail to meet customers’ supply expectations, our net sales would be adversely affected and we may lose business. 32 Table of Contents We purchase several key components, subassemblies and modules used in the manufacture or integration of our products from sole or limited sources, and we are increasingly dependent on contract manufacturers. Many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. For example, we depend on a small private company for certain video encoding chips which are incorporated into several new products. Our reliance on sole or limited suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our increased reliance on subcontractors involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies or modules and, reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components, subassemblies or modules. In particular, certain optical components have in the past been in short supply and are available only from a small number of suppliers, including sole source suppliers. These risks are heightened during the current economic slowdown, because our suppliers and subcontractors are more likely to experience adverse changes in their financial condition and operations during such a period. While we expend resources to qualify additional component sources, consolidation of suppliers in the industry and the small number of viable alternatives have limited the results of these efforts. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our suppliers. Managing our supplier and contractor relationships is particularly difficult during time periods in which we introduce new products and during time periods in which demand for our products is increasing, especially if demand increases more quickly than we expect. Furthermore, from time to time we assess our relationship with our contract manufacturers. In 2003, we entered into a three-year agreement with Plexus Services Corp. as our primary contract manufacturer, and Plexus currently provides us with a majority of the products that we purchase from our contract manufacturers. This agreement has automatic annual renewals unless prior notice is given and has been renewed until October 2010. Difficulties in managing relationships with current contract manufacturers, particularly Plexus, could impede our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and adversely affect our operating results. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply could negatively affect our ability to ship our products on a timely basis, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business. We attempt to limit this risk by maintaining safety stocks of certain components, subassemblies and modules. Recent increases in demand on our suppliers and subcontractors from other parties have caused sporadic shortages of certain components and products. In response, we have increased our inventories of certain components and products and expedited shipments of our products when necessary, which has increased our costs. As a result of this investment in inventories, we have in the past and in the future may be subject to risk of excess and obsolete inventories, which could harm our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. In this regard, our gross margins and operating results in the past were adversely affected by significant excess and obsolete inventory charges. Cessation of the development and production of video encoding chips by C-Cube’s spun-off semiconductor business may adversely impact us. Our DiviCom business, which we acquired in 2000, and the C-Cube semiconductor business (acquired by LSI Logic in June 2001) collaborated on the production and development of two video encoding microelectronic chips prior to our acquisition of the DiviCom business. In connection with the acquisition, we have entered into a contractual relationship with the spun-off semiconductor business of C-Cube, under which we have access to certain of the spun-off semiconductor business technologies and products on which the DiviCom business depends for certain product and service offerings. The current term of this agreement is through October 2010, with automatic annual renewals unless terminated by either party in accordance with the agreement provisions. On July 27, 2007, LSI announced that it had completed the sale of its consumer products business (which includes the design and manufacture of encoding chips) to Magnum Semiconductor, and the agreement provides us with access to certain of the spun-off semiconductor business technologies and products was assigned to Magnum Semiconductor. If the spun-off semiconductor business is not able to or does not sustain its development and production efforts in this area, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be harmed. 33 Table of Contents We rely on distributors, value-added resellers and systems integrators for a substantial portion of our sales, and disruptions to, or our failure to develop and manage our relationships with these customers and the processes and procedures that support them could adversely affect our business. We generate a substantial portion of our sales through net sales to distributors, value-added resellers, or VARs, and systems integrators. We expect that these sales will continue to generate a substantial percentage of our net sales in the future. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of distributors, VARs and systems integrators that specialize in video delivery solutions, products and services, and our reliance on such customers has increased since the completion of our acquisition of Scopus in the first quarter of 2009. We generally have no long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments with any of our distributor, VAR or system integrator customers, and our contracts with these parties do not prohibit them from purchasing or offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to our distributor, VAR and systems integrator customers to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our distributor, VAR or systems integrator customers may choose not to purchase or offer our products. Many of our distributors, VARs and system integrators are small, are based in a variety of international locations and may have relatively unsophisticated processes and limited financial resources to conduct their business. Any significant disruption to our sales to these customers, including as a result of the inability or unwillingness of these customers to continue purchasing our products, or their failure to properly manage their business with respect to the purchase of and payment for our products, could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with distributor, VAR and systems integrator customers would likely materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We need to effectively manage our operations and the cyclical nature of our business. The cyclical nature of our business has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our personnel, management and other resources. Our purchase of the video networking software business of Entone in December 2006 resulted in the addition of 43 employees, most of whom are based in Hong Kong, and we added approximately 18 employees on July 31, 2007, in connection with the completion of our acquisition of Rhozet. In addition, upon the closing of the acquisition of Scopus, we added 221 employees on March 12, 2009, most of whom are based in Israel. Our ability to manage our business effectively in the future, including any future growth, will require us to train, motivate and manage our employees successfully, to attract and integrate new employees into our overall operations, to retain key employees and to continue to improve our operational, financial and management systems. We are subject to various laws and regulations related to the environment and potential climate change that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws relating to the environment and potential climate change, including those governing the management, disposal and labeling of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur costs and fines, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. The ultimate costs under these laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. We also face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling, and disposal of certain products. For example, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, which regulates the collection, recovery, and recycling of waste from electrical and electronic products, and the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances 34 Table of Contents in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) directive, which bans the use of certain hazardous materials including lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) that exceed certain specified levels. Legislation similar to RoHS and WEEE has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Japan, and China. Our failure to comply with these laws could result in our being directly or indirectly liable for costs, fines or penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in such countries. We also expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs or decreased revenue, and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are liable for C-Cube’s pre-merger liabilities, including liabilities resulting from the spin-off of its semiconductor business. Under the terms of the merger agreement with C-Cube, Harmonic is generally liable for C-Cube’s pre-merger liabilities. Harmonic and LSI Logic, which acquired C-Cube’s spun off semiconductor business in June 2001 and assumed its obligations, reached a settlement agreement in the second quarter of 2009, which resulted in Harmonic reimbursing LSI Logic $1.0 million of the outstanding liability to settle any future outstanding claims. As a result, the full amount of the estimated obligations was transferred to LSI Logic in the second quarter of 2009. To the extent that these obligations are finally settled for more than the amounts reimbursed by Harmonic, LSI Logic is obligated, under the terms of the settlement agreement, to reimburse Harmonic. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights may adversely affect us. We currently hold 44 issued U.S. patents and 18 issued foreign patents, and have a number of patent applications pending. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, licensing arrangements, maintaining certain technology as trade secrets and other measures, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. We cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents that we own. In addition, effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries in which we do business or may do business in the future. We believe that patents and patent applications are not currently significant to our business, and investors therefore should not rely on our patent portfolio to give us a competitive advantage over others in our industry. We believe that the future success of our business will depend on our ability to translate the technological expertise and innovation of our personnel into new and enhanced products. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers as needed, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, we have taken in the past, and may take in the future, legal action to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. In order to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. Although many companies are often willing to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, we cannot assure you that such agreements will be negotiated on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, when necessary or desirable, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could cause our business to suffer. 35 Table of Contents Our products include third-party technology and intellectual property, and our inability to use that technology in the future could harm our business. We incorporate certain third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products, and intend to utilize additional third-party technologies in the future. Licenses to relevant third-party technologies or updates to those technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the technologies that we license may not operate properly and we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner, which could harm our business. We could face delays in product releases until alternative technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our products, if we are able to do so at all. These delays, or a failure to secure or develop adequate technology, could materially and adversely affect our business. We or our customers may face intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the telecommunications industry have extensive patent portfolios. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us or our customers. Our suppliers and customers may have similar claims asserted against them. A number of third parties, including companies with greater financial and other resources than us, have asserted patent rights to technologies that are important to us. Any future litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of the efforts of our management and technical personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities, temporary or permanent injunctions or require us to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. Furthermore, necessary licenses may not be available on satisfactory terms, or at all. An unfavorable outcome on any such litigation matters could require that Harmonic pay substantial damages, or, in connection with any intellectual property infringement claims, could require that we pay ongoing royalty payments or could prevent us from selling certain of our products and any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. On July 3, 2003, Stanford University and Litton Systems (now Northrop Grumman Guidance and Electronics Company, Inc.) filed a complaint in U.S. District Court for the Central District of California alleging that optical fiber amplifiers incorporated into certain of our products infringe U.S. Patent No. 4859016. This patent expired in September 2003. The complaint sought injunctive relief, royalties and damages. On August 6, 2007, the District Court granted our motion to dismiss. The plaintiffs appealed this motion and on June 19, 2008 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision which vacated the District Court’s decision and remanded for further proceedings. At a scheduling conference on October 6, 2008, the judge ordered the parties to mediation. Following the mediation sessions, Harmonic and Litton entered into a settlement agreement on January 15, 2009. The settlement agreement provided that in exchange for a one-time lump sum payment from Harmonic to Litton of $5 million, Litton (i) will not bring suit against Harmonic, any of its affiliates, customers, vendors, representatives, distributors, and its contract manufacturers for any liability for making, using, offering for sale, importing, and/or selling any Harmonic products that may have incorporated technology that was alleged to have infringed on one or more of the relevant patents and (ii) released Harmonic from any liability for making, using, or selling any Harmonic products that may have infringed on such patents. Harmonic paid the settlement amount in January 2009. Our suppliers and customers may have similar claims asserted against them. We have agreed to indemnify some of our suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement. The scope of this indemnity varies, but, in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses (including reasonable attorney’s fees). 36 Table of Contents We may be the subject of litigation which, if adversely determined, could harm our business and operating results. In addition to the litigation discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we may be subject to claims arising in the normal course of business. An unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could require that we pay substantial damages, or, in connection with any intellectual property infringement claims, could require that we pay ongoing royalty payments or could prevent us from selling certain of our products. In addition, we may decide to settle any litigation, which could cause us to incur significant costs. A settlement or an unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. We are subject to import and export controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception, in most cases because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers internationally. In addition, we may be subject to customs duties and export quotas, which could have a significant impact on our revenue and profitability. While we have not encountered significant difficulties in connection with the sales of our products in international markets, the future imposition of significant increases in the level of customs duties or export quotas could have a material adverse effect on our business. The leases on the buildings at our main campus in Sunnyvale, California expire in September 2010, and we may incur costs and experience delays in connection with moving to new facilities. Our corporate headquarters and most of our U.S. operations are housed in two leased buildings in Sunnyvale. These leases expire in September 2010. Consequently, we recently entered into a lease to occupy a building close to our existing facilities. We are currently making plans to move to the new facility prior to the expiration of our current lease. The new facility requires substantial improvements and outfitting in order to be suitable for our occupancy. If construction is delayed, or if occupancy permits are not granted in time, we may not be able to move prior to the expiration of our current lease. If for any reason we are required to extend our current lease on a short-term basis, we could incur additional rent expenses and other costs. Additionally, we expect to incur moving costs and may also experience significant potential disruption to our business activities at the time of moving to a new facility. The ongoing threat of terrorism has created great uncertainty and may continue to harm our business. Current conditions in the U.S. and global economies are uncertain. The terrorist attacks in the U.S. in 2001 and subsequent terrorist attacks in other parts of the world have created many economic and political uncertainties that have severely impacted the global economy, and have adversely affected our business. For example, following the 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S., we experienced a further decline in demand for our products. The long-term effects of the attacks, the situation in the Middle East and the ongoing war on terrorism on our business and on the global economy remain unknown. Moreover, the potential for 37 Table of Contents future terrorist attacks has created additional uncertainty and makes it difficult to estimate the stability and strength of the U.S. and other economies and the impact of economic conditions on our business. The markets in which we, our customers and our suppliers operate are subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our headquarters and the majority of our operations are located in California, which is prone to earthquakes, and some of the other locations in which we, our customers and suppliers conduct business are prone to natural disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by any such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties and suffer significant financial losses. Furthermore, we rely on third-party manufacturers for the production of many of our products, and any disruption in the business or operations of such manufacturers could adversely impact our business. In addition, if there is a major earthquake or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which our significant customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses, or sustained business interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to continue their purchase of products from us. A major earthquake or other natural disaster in the markets in which we, our customers or suppliers operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; • controlling the procedures for conduct and scheduling of Board and stockholder meetings; and • providing the Board of Directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control or management of us. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The rights are not intended to prevent a takeover of us, and we believe these rights will help our negotiations with any potential acquirers. However, if the Board of Directors believes that a particular acquisition is undesirable, the rights may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging that acquisition. The rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by our Board of Directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon redemption of the rights. 38 Table of Contents As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, our stockholder rights plan or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our common stock price may be extremely volatile, and the value of your investment may decline. Our common stock price has been highly volatile. We expect that this volatility will continue in the future due to factors such as: • general market and economic conditions; • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or new services by us or by our competitors or customers; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • announcements by our customers regarding end market conditions and the status of existing and future infrastructure network deployments; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • future equity or debt offerings or our announcements of these offerings. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and the securities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. Investors may be unable to sell their shares of our common stock at or above the purchase price. Our stock price may decline if additional shares are sold in the market. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, we may be required to issue additional shares upon exercise of previously granted options that are currently outstanding. Increased sales of our common stock in the market after exercise of currently outstanding options could exert significant downward pressure on our stock price. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. 39 Table of Contents If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the availability of research and reports that third-party industry or financial analysts publish about us. Further, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the liquidity of our stock and our stock price to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 