Item 1A. Risk Factors We depend on cable, satellite and telco, and broadcast and media industry capital spending for a substantial majority of our revenue and any material decrease or delay in capital spending in these industries would negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. A substantial majority of our historical revenue has been derived from sales to cable television operators, satellite and telco operators and broadcast companies, as well as, more recently, the emerging streaming media providers. In September 2010, we completed the acquisition of Omneon, a private, venture-backed company specializing in file-based infrastructure for the production, preparation and playout of video content typically deployed by broadcasters, satellite operators, content owners and other media companies. We expect revenue from all of these markets will constitute a substantial majority of revenue for the foreseeable future. Demand for our products will depend on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by customers in these markets for constructing and upgrading their systems. These capital spending patterns are dependent on a variety of factors, including: • access to financing; • annual capital spending budget cycles of each of the industries we serve; • the impact of industry consolidation; • federal, local and foreign government regulation of telecommunications and television broadcasting; • overall demand for communication services and consumer acceptance of new video and data services; • evolving industry standards and network architectures; • competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; • discretionary end-user customer spending patterns; and • general economic conditions. In the past, specific factors contributing to reduced capital spending have included: • uncertainty related to development of digital video industry standards; • delays in the evaluation of new services, new standards and system architectures by many operators; • emphasis by operators on generating revenue from existing customers, rather than from new customers through new construction or network upgrades; • a reduction in the amount of capital available to finance projects of our customers and potential customers; • proposed and completed business combinations and divestitures by our customers and the length of regulatory review thereof; • weak or uncertain economic and financial conditions in domestic or international markets, particularly in the housing markets in the developed countries; and • bankruptcies and financial restructuring of major customers. The financial difficulties of certain of our customers and changes in our customers’ deployment plans have adversely affected our business in the past. In 2008 and 2009, economic conditions in many of the countries in which we sell products were very weak, and global economic conditions and financial markets experienced a severe downturn. The downturn stemmed from a multitude of factors, including adverse credit conditions, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, rapid changes in foreign exchange rates, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. Although there was an increase in global economic activity in 2010, economic growth may remain sluggish during 2011 in a few developed countries and in some emerging market countries. The severity or length of time that these adverse economic and financial market conditions may persist, or whether such adverse conditions may return in the U.S. and in other countries, is unknown. During challenging or uncertain economic times, and in tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce capital expenditures, which in turn often results in lower demand for our products. 16 Table of Contents Further, we have a number of international customers to whom sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. The value of the U.S. dollar fluctuates significantly against many foreign currencies, which includes the local currencies of many of our international customers. If the U.S. dollar appreciates relative to the local currencies of our customers, then the prices of our products correspondingly increase for such customers. Such an effect could adversely impact sales of our products to such customers and result in longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition in the affected countries. Further, if the U.S. dollar were to weaken against many major currencies, there can be no assurance that a weaker dollar would lead to growth in capital spending. In addition, industry consolidation has in the past constrained, and may in the future constrain, capital spending by our customers. Further, if our product portfolio and product development plans do not position us well to capture an increased portion of the capital spending of customers in the markets on which we focus, our revenue may decline. As a result of these capital spending issues, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenue in the future, and our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. The markets for our products are extremely competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change and declining average selling prices. Pressure on average selling prices was particularly severe during previous economic downturns as equipment suppliers competed aggressively for customers’ reduced capital spending, and we have experienced similar pressure during the recent economic slowdown. Our principal competitors for edge and access and fiber optics access products include Cisco Systems, Motorola and Arris. In the digital video solutions market, we compete broadly with products from vertically integrated system suppliers, including Motorola, Cisco Systems, Technicolor and Ericsson, and, in certain product lines, with a number of smaller companies. Our principal competitors for our storage products, including our production and playout products, are Harris, Grass Valley, SeaChange and Avid. Many of our competitors are substantially larger, and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, than we do. Many of these large enterprises are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in these markets. They often have broader product lines and market focus, and may not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. These competitors may also be able to bundle their products together to meet the needs of a particular customer, and may be capable of delivering more complete solutions than we are able to provide. To the extent large enterprises that currently do not compete directly with us choose to enter our markets by acquisition or otherwise, competition would likely intensify. Further, some of our competitors that have greater financial resources have offered, and in the future may offer, their products at lower prices than we offer for our competing products or more attractive financing terms, which has in the past, and may in the future, cause us to lose sales opportunities and the resulting revenue or to reduce our prices in response to that competition. Reductions in prices for any of our products could materially and adversely affect our operating margins and revenue. In addition, many of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have, and, therefore, have more long-standing and established relationships with domestic and foreign customers, making it difficult for us to sell to those customers. If any of our competitors’ products or technologies were to become the industry standard, our business would be seriously harmed. If our competitors are successful in bringing their products to market earlier than us, or if these products are more technologically capable than ours, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain companies that have not had a large presence in the broadband communications equipment market have begun to expand their presence in this market through mergers and acquisitions. The continued consolidation of our competitors could have a significant negative impact on our business. Further, our competitors, particularly companies that offer products that are competitive with our digital video systems, may bundle their products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or which may require us to lower our selling prices, resulting in lower revenues and decreased gross margins. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete at the same level as we have in the past, in any of our markets, or are forced to reduce the prices of our products in order to continue to be competitive, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. We need to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely manner to meet the needs of our customers and to remain competitive. All of the markets we address are characterized by continuing technological advancement, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. To compete successfully, we must continually design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability and meet our customers changing needs. However, we may not be successful in those efforts if, among other things, our products: • are not cost effective; • are not brought to market in a timely manner; • are not in accordance with evolving industry standards and architectures; • fail to meet market acceptance or customer requirements; or • are ahead of the market. We are currently developing and marketing products based on established video compression standards. Encoding products based on the MPEG-2 compression standards have historically represented a significant portion of our revenue. Newer standards, such as MPEG-4 AVC/H.264, that have been adopted provide significantly greater compression efficiency, thereby making more bandwidth available to operators. The availability of more bandwidth is particularly important to those operators seeking to launch, or expand, HDTV services. We have developed and launched products, including HD encoders, based on these new standards in order to remain competitive, and are continuing to devote considerable resources to these efforts. In addition, we have launched an encoding platform that is capable of being configured for both MPEG-2 and MPEG-4, in both standard definition and HD formats. At the same time, we need to devote development resources to the existing MPEG-2 standard which many of our customers continue to require. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in the near future, or at all, or that competitors will not take significant market share in HD encoding. In addition, our customers are paying more attention to audio products and features than they have in the past. This enhanced attention to audio is likely to result in additional product requirements and the related need for more development and support staff with audio expertise and training. Hiring and retaining such staff may be difficult and costly. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely hire development and support staff with audio expertise or that our efforts to develop enhanced audio products and features will be successful in the near future, or at all. In order to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely enter into any necessary technology development or licensing agreements on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to develop and market new and enhanced products, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and, as a result, may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, causing our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future, on an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of several factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include: • the level and timing of capital spending of our customers, both in the U.S. and in foreign markets, due in part to access to financing, including credit, for capital spending; 18 Table of Contents • economic and financial conditions specific to the cable, satellite and telco, and broadcast and media industries; • changes in market demand for our products or customer’s services or products; • the timing and amount of orders, especially from significant customers; • the timing of revenue recognition from solution contracts, which may span several quarters; • increases and decreases in the number and size of relatively larger transactions, and projects in which we are involved, from quarter to quarter; • the timing of revenue recognition on sales arrangements, which may include multiple deliverables; • the timing of acquisitions and the financial impact of such acquisitions; • the timing of completion of our customers’ projects; • competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by our competitors; • lack of predictability in our revenue cycles; • the level and mix of our international revenue; • new product introductions by our competitors or by us; • the timing of our development of custom products and software; • changes in domestic and international regulatory environments affecting our business; • market acceptance of our new or existing products; • impact of new revenue recognition accounting standards, which are effective in 2011; • the evaluation of new services, new standards and system architectures by our customers; • the cost and availability to us of components, subassemblies and modules; • the mix of our customer base, by industry and size, and sales channels; • the mix of our products sold and the effect it has on gross margins; • changes in our operating and extraordinary expenses, such as litigation expenses and settlement costs; • impairment of our goodwill and intangibles; • the outcome of litigation; • write-downs of inventory and investments; • the impact of applicable accounting guidance that requires us to record the fair value of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan awards as compensation expense; • changes in our effective tax rate, including as a result of changes in our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, changes in our effective state tax rates, including as a result of apportionment, and changes in our mix of domestic versus international revenue, as well as proposed amended tax rules related to the deferral of foreign earnings and compliance with foreign tax rules; • the impact of applicable accounting guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes that requires us to establish reserves for uncertain tax positions and accrue potential tax penalties and interest; • the impact of applicable accounting guidance on business combinations that requires us to record charges for certain acquisition related costs and expenses and generally to expense restructuring costs associated with a business combination subsequent to the acquisition date; and • general economic conditions. 19 Table of Contents The timing of deployment of our products by our customers can be subject to a number of other risks, including the availability of skilled engineering and technical personnel, the availability of other equipment, such as compatible set top boxes, our customers’ ability to negotiate and enter into rights agreements with video content owners that provide the customers with the right to deliver certain video content, and our customers’ need for local franchise and licensing approvals. We often recognize a substantial portion of our quarterly revenues in the last month of the quarter. We establish our expenditure levels for product development and other operating expenses based on projected revenue levels for a specified period, and expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, even small variations in timing of revenue, particularly from large individual transactions, can cause significant fluctuations in operating results in a particular quarter. As a result of these factors and other factors, our operating results in one or more future periods may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. Our customer base is concentrated and we are regularly involved in relatively large transactions. The loss of one or more of our key customers, or a failure to diversify our customer base, as well as a decrease in the number of such larger transactions, could harm our business. Historically, a majority of our revenue has been derived from relatively few customers, due in part to the consolidation of the ownership of cable television and direct broadcast satellite system companies. However, in the last two years, revenue from our ten largest customers has decreased as a percentage of revenue, due to our growing customer base, in part as a result of the acquisition of Scopus and Omneon. Sales to our ten largest customers in 2010, 2009 and 2008 accounted for approximately 44%, 47% and 58% of revenue, respectively. Although we are attempting to broaden our customer base by penetrating new markets and further expanding internationally, we expect to see continuing industry consolidation and customer concentration. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, revenue from Comcast accounted for 17%, 16% and 20%, respectively, of our revenue. Sales to EchoStar accounted for 12% of revenue in 2008. The loss of Comcast or any other significant customer, any material reduction in orders by Comcast or any significant customer, or our failure to qualify our new products with a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we are involved in most quarters in one or more relatively large individual transactions, including, from time to time, projects in which we act much like a systems integrator. A decrease in the number of the relatively larger individual transactions in which we are involved in any quarter could adversely affect our operating results for that quarter. In addition, historically, we have been dependent upon capital spending in the cable and satellite industry. We are attempting to further diversify our customer base beyond cable and satellite customers, including to the telco and broadcast and media markets. Several major telcos have rebuilt or are upgrading their networks to offer bundled video, voice and data services. In order to be successful in this market, we may need to continue to build alliances with telco equipment manufacturers, adapt our products for telco applications, take orders at prices resulting in lower margins, and build internal expertise to handle the particular contractual and technical demands of the telco industry. In addition, telco video deployments, including recent trials of mobile video services, are subject to delays in completion, as video processing technologies and video business models are relatively new to most telcos and many of their largest suppliers. Implementation issues with our products or those of other vendors have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in project completion for our customers and delay our recognition of revenue. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to increase our revenues from telco and broadcast and media customers and other markets, or to do so profitably, and any failure to increase revenues and profits from these customers would adversely affect our stock price and could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents If we do not realize improvement in our operating results and other benefits expected from our recently completed acquisition of Omneon, our business may be adversely affected and our stock price could decline. Our recently completed acquisition of Omneon, a private, venture-backed company specializing in file-based infrastructure for the production, preparation and playout of video content, involves the integration of a business that had previously operated independently. The integration of a previously independent company into the acquiring company’s operations is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. While the integration process for Omneon began in September 2010, when the Omneon acquisition was consummated, it will take some time to complete the process. It is possible that the process of integrating Omneon could result in our inability to fully realize the expected synergies and other benefits of the acquisition, the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing businesses and that of Omneon, and inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, and employees, and would involve many of the other risks of any acquisition described in the risk factor concerning acquisitions on page 27). In addition, the successful combination of the companies requires the dedication of significant management resources, which could temporarily divert attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. There can be no assurance that these challenges will be met, and that we will realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Omneon, on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to realize these benefits, our goal of expanding into the markets on which Omneon focuses and our business, in general, may be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. We depend significantly on our international revenue and are subject to the risks associated with international operations, which may negatively affect our operating results. Revenue derived from customers outside of the U.S. in 2010, 2009 and 2008 represented 50%, 49% and 44% of our revenue, respectively. We expect that international revenue will continue to represent a similar substantial percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, most of our contract manufacturing occurs overseas. Our international operations, the international operations of our contract manufacturers and our efforts to maintain and increase revenue in international markets are subject to a number of risks, which are generally greater with respect to emerging market countries, including the impact on our business and operating results of: • a slowdown or leveling off in international economies, which may adversely affect our customers’ capital spending; • changes in foreign government regulations and telecommunications standards; • import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • a significant reliance on distributors, resellers and other third parties to sell our products and solutions, particularly in emerging market countries; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, especially from smaller customers and resellers, particularly in emerging market countries; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, particularly in emerging market countries; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, treaties and technical standards; • fulfilling “country of origin” requirements for our products for certain customers; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability, including risks related to terrorist activity, particularly in emerging market countries; • changes in economic policies by foreign governments; • lack of basic infrastructure, particularly in emerging market countries; 21 Table of Contents • availability of credit, particularly in emerging market countries; and • impact of the recent escalating social and political unrest in the Middle East. In the past, certain of our international customers accumulated significant levels of debt and have undertaken reorganizations and financial restructurings, including bankruptcy proceedings. Even where these restructurings have been completed, in some cases these customers have not been in a position to purchase new equipment at levels we had seen in the past. While our international revenue and operating expenses have typically been denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in revenue or profitability from sales in that country. A portion of our European business is denominated in Euros, which subjects us to increased foreign currency risk. Gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in operating results. Furthermore, payment cycles for international customers are typically longer than those for customers in the U.S. Unpredictable payment cycles could cause us to fail to meet or exceed the expectations of security analysts and investors for any given period. Our operations outside the United States also require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, our operations in countries outside the United States are subject to the FCPA and similar laws, which prohibits United States companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals, in their official capacity, to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Our activities in countries outside the United States create the inherent risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents, including those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, which could be in violation of the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. We have internal control policies and procedures, and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents, with respect to the FCPA. However, we cannot assure you that our policies, procedures and programs will prevent violations of the FCPA or similar laws by our employees or agents, particularly in emerging market countries, and as we expand our international operations. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could result in criminal or civil sanctions against us. The effect of one or more of these international risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our future growth depends on market acceptance of several broadband services, on the adoption of new broadband technologies and on several other broadband industry trends. Future demand for many of our products will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of emerging broadband services, including digital video, VOD, HDTV, IPTV, mobile video services, and very high-speed data services. The market demand for such emerging services is rapidly growing, with many de facto or proprietary systems in use, which increases the challenge of delivering interoperable products intended to address the requirements of such services. The effective delivery of these services will depend, in part, on a variety of new network architectures and standards, such as: • video compression standards, such as MPEG-4 AVC/H.264, for both standard definition and high definition services; • fiber to the premises, or FTTP, and digital subscriber line, or DSL, networks designed to facilitate the delivery of video services by telcos; • the greater use of protocols such as IP; • the further adoption of bandwidth-optimization techniques, such as switched digital video and DOCSIS 3.0; and 22 Table of Contents • the introduction of new consumer devices, such as advanced set-top boxes, personal video recorders, or PVRs, and a variety of “smart phone” mobile devices, such as the iPhone. If adoption of these emerging services and/or technologies is not as widespread or as rapid as we expect, or if we are unable to develop new products based on these technologies on a timely basis, our revenue will be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, other technological, industry and regulatory trends will affect the growth of our business. These trends include the following: • convergence, or the need of many network operators to deliver a package of video, voice and data services to consumers, including mobile delivery options; • the increasing availability of traditional broadcast video content on the Internet; • the entry of telcos into the video business; • the emergence of ATSC mobile handheld as a viable content delivery system; • the use of digital video by businesses, governments and educational institutions; • efforts by regulators and governments in the U.S. and abroad to encourage the adoption of broadband and digital technologies; • increased consumer interest in 3D television and content; • the extent and nature of regulatory attitudes towards such issues as network neutrality, competition between operators, access by third parties to networks of other operators, local franchising requirements for telcos to offer video, and other new services, such as mobile video; and • the outcome of litigation and negotiations between content owners and service providers regarding rights of service providers to store and distribute recorded broadcast content, which outcomes may drive adoption of one technology over another in some cases. If we fail to recognize and respond to these trends, by timely developing products, features and services required by these trends, we are likely to lose revenue opportunities and our results of operations and stock price could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in telecommunications legislation and regulations could harm our prospects and future revenue. Changes in telecommunications legislation and regulations in the U.S. and other countries could affect the revenue from our products. In particular, regulations dealing with access by competitors to the networks of incumbent operators could slow or stop additional construction or expansion by these operators. Increased regulation of our customers’ pricing or service offerings could limit their investments and, consequently, revenue from our products. The impact of new or revised legislation or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Newly adopted Federal laws will likely impact the demand for product features by our customers. These laws include the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation Act and the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010, which deals with accessibility for the hearing and visually impaired. While we have added some features to our products in anticipation of these laws, others (driven by the regulatory process related to the laws) may require feature development on a schedule which may be inflexible and difficult to meet. This could result in our inability to develop other product features necessary for particular transactions at the same time, and thus we could lose some business and the related revenue. 23 Table of Contents We purchase several key components, subassemblies and modules used in the manufacture or integration of our products from sole or limited sources, and we are increasingly dependent on contract manufacturers and other subcontractors. Many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. For example, we depend on a small private company for certain video encoding chips which are incorporated into several products. Our reliance on sole or limited suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our increased reliance on subcontractors for manufacturing and installation, involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies or modules and reduced control over costs, quality and timely delivery of components, subassemblies or modules and timely installation of products. In particular, certain optical components have in the past been in short supply and are available only from a small number of suppliers, including sole source suppliers. These risks could be heightened during a substantial economic slowdown, because our suppliers and subcontractors are more likely to experience adverse changes in their financial condition and operations during such a period. While we expend resources to qualify additional component sources, consolidation of suppliers in the industry and the small number of viable alternatives have limited the results of these efforts. Managing our supplier and contractor relationships is particularly difficult during time periods in which we introduce new products and during time periods in which demand for our products is increasing, especially if demand increases more quickly than we expect. From time to time we assess our relationship with our contract manufacturers, and we do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our suppliers or contract manufacturers. Plexus Services Corp. acts as our primary contract manufacturer, and currently provides us with a majority of the products that we purchase from our contract manufacturers. Our agreement with Plexus has automatic annual renewals, unless prior notice is given by either party, and has been renewed until October 2011. Since October 2009, most of the products previously manufactured by our Israeli operations have been outsourced to third party manufacturers located in Israel. Our ability to improve production efficiency with respect to that business may be limited by the terms of research grants that we received from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, or OCS, an arm of the Israeli government. These grants restrict the transfer outside of Israel of intellectual property developed with funding from the OCS, and also limit the manufacturing outside of Israel of products containing such intellectual property. Any difficulties in managing relationships with current contract manufacturers, particularly Plexus, which manufacturers our products off-shore, could impede our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and adversely affect our operating results. An inability to obtain adequate and timely deliveries, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could negatively affect our ability to ship our products on a timely basis, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business and materially and adversely affect our revenues. We attempt to limit this risk by maintaining safety stocks of certain components, subassemblies and modules. Recent increases in demand on our suppliers and subcontractors from other parties have caused sporadic shortages of certain components and products. In response, we have increased our inventories of certain components and products and expedited shipments of our products when necessary, which has increased our costs. As a result of this investment in inventories, we have in the past been, and in the future may be, subject to risk of excessive or obsolete inventories, which, despite our use of a demand order fulfillment model, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows. In this regard, our gross margins and operating results have, in the past, been adversely affected by significant excess and obsolete inventory charges. Fluctuations in our future effective tax rates could affect our future operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are required to periodically review our deferred tax assets and determine whether, based on available evidence, a valuation allowance is necessary. Accordingly, we have performed such evaluation, from time to time, based on historical evidence, trends in profitability, expectations of future taxable income and implemented tax planning strategies. In 2008, we determined that a valuation allowance was no longer necessary for substantially all 24 Table of Contents of our U.S. deferred tax assets because, based on the available evidence, we concluded that realization of these net deferred tax assets was more likely than not. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance for certain foreign deferred tax assets, and recorded a valuation allowance on certain of our California deferred tax assets in the first quarter of 2009 as a result of our expectations of future usage of the California deferred tax assets. In the event, in the future, we determine an additional valuation allowance is necessary with respect to our U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets, we would incur a charge equal to the amount of the valuation allowance in the period in which we made such determination as a discrete item, and this could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations for such period. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex global tax regulations. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. In the event we determine that it is appropriate to create a reserve or increase an existing reserve for any such potential liabilities, the amount of the additional reserve is charged as an expense in the period in which it is determined. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If the estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate tax assessment for the applicable period, a further charge to expense in the period such short fall is determined would result. Either such charge to expense could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations for the applicable period. We have been notified by the Internal Revenue Service that our 2008 and 2009 U.S. corporate income tax return has been selected for audit, which is expected to commence in the second quarter of 2011. If upon the conclusion of these audits, the ultimate determination of taxes owed in the U.S. is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded in the applicable period, our overall tax expense and effective rate could be adversely impacted in the period of adjustment. We have requested an Advanced Pricing Agreement with the Internal Revenue Service regarding our non-exclusive license of our intellectual property rights to one of our international subsidiaries, in 2008, and our sharing of research and development costs with our international subsidiaries. If the Internal Revenue Service is unwilling to enter into such agreement on substantially the terms we have proposed and we are ultimately forced to settle on terms that are unfavorable to us, we may be required to take a charge to expense, in the period of the settlement, arising from such unfavorable terms that could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations for such period. We completed the same non-exclusive license of Omneon intellectual property in the fourth quarter of 2010, and expect to request the Internal Revenue Service to enter into an Advanced Pricing Agreement with respect to the Omneon license, which will have the same risk to us as the Advanced Pricing Agreement we are presently negotiating. We continue to be in the process of expanding our international operations and staffing to better support our expansion into international markets. This expansion includes the implementation of an international structure that includes, among other things, an international support center in Europe, a research and development cost-sharing arrangement, certain licenses and other contractual arrangements between us and our wholly-owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries. As a result of these changes, we anticipate that our consolidated pre-tax income will be subject to foreign tax at relatively lower tax rates when compared to the United States federal statutory tax rate and, as a consequence, our effective income tax rate is expected to be lower than the United States federal statutory rate. In addition, recent statements from the IRS have indicated their intent to seek greater disclosure by companies of their reserves for uncertain tax positions. Our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected if tax authorities challenge our international tax structure or if the relative mix of United States and international income changes for any reason. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our income tax rate will be less than the United States federal statutory rate in future periods. We or our customers may face intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the telco industry have extensive patent portfolios. From time to time, third parties have asserted, and may assert in the future, 25 Table of Contents patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us or our customers. Our suppliers and their customers, including us, may have similar claims asserted against them. A number of third parties, including companies with greater financial and other resources than us, have asserted patent rights to technologies that are important to us. Any future intellectual property litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of the efforts of our management and technical personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities, temporary or permanent injunctions or require us to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. Furthermore, necessary licenses may not be available on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. An unfavorable outcome on any such litigation matter could require that we pay substantial damages, could require that we pay ongoing royalty payments or could prohibit us from selling certain of our products. Any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows. In April 2010, Arris Corporation filed a complaint in United States District Court in Atlanta, alleging that our Streamliner 3000 product infringes four patents held by Arris. The complaint seeks injunctive relief and damages. Harmonic was served with the complaint in August 2010 and filed its answer in September 2010. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of this matter, with certainty. In connection with this matter, we recorded a $1.3 million liability in the fourth quarter of 2010 based on management’s determination of our probable and estimable exposure in the matter. An unfavorable outcome of this matter, at a level materially above such charge, could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows. In July 2003, Stanford University and Litton Systems (now Northrop Grumman Guidance and Electronics Company, Inc.) filed a complaint in U.S. District Court for the Central District of California alleging that optical fiber amplifiers incorporated into certain of our products infringe U.S. Patent No. 4859016. This patent expired in September 2003. The complaint sought injunctive relief, royalties and damages. The judge ordered the parties to mediation, and following the mediation sessions, Harmonic and Litton entered into a settlement agreement in January 2009. The settlement agreement provided that, in exchange for a one-time lump sum payment from us to Litton of $5 million, Litton (i) will not bring suit against us, or any of our affiliates, customers, vendors, representatives, distributors, or contract manufacturers, for any liability for making, using, offering for sale, importing, and/or selling any Harmonic products that may have incorporated technology that was alleged to have infringed one or more of the relevant patents, and (ii) released us from any liability for making, using, or selling any Harmonic products that may have infringed on such patents. We paid the settlement amount in January 2009. Our suppliers and customers may have intellectual property claims relating to our products asserted against them. We have agreed to indemnify some of our suppliers and customers for patent infringement relating to our products. The scope of this indemnity varies, but, in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses (including reasonable attorney’s fees) incurred by the supplier or customer in connection with such claims. We may be the subject of litigation which, if adversely determined, could harm our business and operating results. In addition to the litigation discussed elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K, we may be subject to claims arising in the normal course of business. The costs of defending any litigation, whether cash expenses or in management time, could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. An unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could require that we pay substantial damages, or, in connection with any intellectual property infringement claims, could require that we pay ongoing royalty payments or could prohibit us from selling certain of our products. In addition, we may decide to settle any litigation, which could cause us to incur significant settlement costs. A settlement or an unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. As an example, we have received letters from several of our customers, notifying us that the customer intends to exercise its indemnification rights in agreements between the customer and us with respect to a patent infringement claim brought against the customer that may cover products we have sold to the customer. Many of these notices arise out of a spate of patent infringement claims, and related litigation, made by the Multimedia Patent Trust (“MPT”), an affiliate of Alcatel-Lucent, against end-users of products used in the industries we 26 Table of Contents address. Any such litigation by MPT may be very expensive to defend, and there could be significant financial exposure to each of such customers if MPT is successful in such litigation or in extracting a settlement of such claims. None of the notices we have received from a customer with respect to its indemnification rights related to the MPT litigation has demanded that we defend the customer against such claims or litigation, or currently reimburse the customer for its costs of such defense, or pay any other specified sum to the customer. At this time, we cannot predict whether the claims by MPT are legitimate or actually cover any of our products, whether any of the claims may result in a settlement or judgment against a customer defendant, or whether we would have any liability under our indemnification obligations for defense or settlement costs or damages paid by any customer defendant. In the event one or more of our customers makes an indemnification claim against us with respect to a specific amount of defense or settlement costs or damages it suffers as a result of such MPT claims or litigation, we could be obligated to pay amounts to such customers that would materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We rely on distributors, value-added resellers and systems integrators for a significant portion of our revenue, and disruptions to, or our failure to develop and manage, our relationships with these customers and the processes and procedures that support them could adversely affect our business. We generate a significant portion of our revenue through sales to distributors, value-added resellers, or VARs, and systems integrators, principally to assist us with fulfillment or installation obligations. We expect that these sales will continue to generate a significant percentage of our revenue in the future. Accordingly, our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of distributors. Our reliance on VARs and systems integrators that specialize in video delivery solutions, products and services has increased since the completion of our acquisition of Omneon in September 2010. We generally have no long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments with any of our distributor, VAR or system integrator customers, and our contracts with these parties do not prohibit them from purchasing or offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may provide incentives to our distributor, VAR and systems integrator customers to favor their products or, in effect, to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our distributor, VAR or systems integrator customers may independently choose not to purchase or offer our products. Many of our distributors, VARs and system integrators are small, are based in a variety of international locations and may have relatively unsophisticated processes and limited financial resources to conduct their business. Any significant disruption to our sales to these customers, including as a result of the inability or unwillingness of these customers to continue purchasing our products, or their failure to properly manage their business with respect to the purchase of and payment for our products, could materially and adversely impact our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, our failure to continue to establish or maintain successful relationships with distributor, VAR and systems integrator customers could likewise materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions, and any acquisition could disrupt our operations and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As part of our business strategy, from time to time we have acquired, and continue to consider acquiring, businesses, technologies, assets and product lines that we believe complement or expand our existing business. Most recently, in September 2010, we completed the acquisition of Omneon, a privately-held company, that provides broadcast video server and storage systems used for video production and play-to-air workflows. It is likely that we will make additional acquisitions, from time to time, in the future. We may face challenges as a result of these acquisition activities, because such activities entail numerous risks, including: • the possibility that an acquisition may not close because of, among other things, a failure of a party to satisfy the conditions to closing or an acquisition target entering into an alternative transaction; • unanticipated costs or delays associated with the acquisition; • difficulties in the assimilation and integration of acquired operations, technologies and/or products; 27 Table of Contents • the diversion of management’s attention from the regular operations of the business and the challenges of managing a larger and more geographically widespread operation and product portfolio; • difficulties in integrating acquired companies’ systems, controls, policies and procedures to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • adverse effects on new and existing business relationships with suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers; • channel conflicts and disputes between distributors and other partners of ours and the acquired companies; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • risks associated with entering markets in which we may have no or limited prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and practices; • difficulties in bringing acquired products and businesses into compliance with applicable legal requirements in jurisdictions in which we operate and sell products; • substantial charges for acquisition costs, which are required to be expensed under accounting guidance on business combinations; • substantial charges for the amortization of certain purchased intangible assets, deferred stock compensation or similar items; • substantial impairments to goodwill or intangible assets in the event that an acquisition proves to be less valuable than the price we paid for it; and • delays in realizing, or failure to realize, the anticipated benefits of an acquisition. Competition within our industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies, assets and product lines has been, and is likely to continue to be, intense. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to consummate, we may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms or because the target chooses to be acquired by another company. Furthermore, in the event that we are able to identify and consummate any future acquisitions, we may, in each of those acquisitions: • issue equity securities which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt to finance the acquisition or by assumption in the acquisition; • incur significant acquisition-related expenses; • assume substantial liabilities, contingent or otherwise; or • expend significant cash. These financing activities or expenditures could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition or the price of our common stock, or both. Alternatively, due to difficulties in the capital or credit markets, we may be unable to secure capital on reasonable terms, or at all, necessary to complete an acquisition. Moreover, even if we were to obtain benefits from acquisitions in the form of increased revenue and earnings per share, there may be a delay between the time the expenses associated with an acquisition are incurred and the time we recognize such benefits. If we are unable to successfully address any of these risks, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Conditions and changes in some national and global economic environments may adversely affect our business and financial results. Adverse economic conditions in geographic markets in which we operate may harm our business. Recently as described in the first risk factor in this section, economic conditions in some countries in which we sell products, principally emerging market countries, have been weak. That weakness is principally the result of global financial markets having experienced a severe downturn, stemming from a multitude of factors, including adverse credit conditions, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, rapid changes in foreign exchange rates, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. Economic growth in the U.S. and in many other countries slowed in the fourth quarter of 2007, slowed further or remained relatively flat in 2008 and 2009 and remained relatively flat in 2010, improving slightly in the U.S. toward the end of the year. The global economic slowdown led many of our customers to decrease their expenditures in 2009, and we believe that this slowdown caused certain of our customers to reduce or delay orders for our products. Many of our international customers, particularly those in emerging markets, have been exposed to tight credit markets and depreciating currencies, further restricting their ability to build out or upgrade their networks. Some customers have had difficulty in servicing or retiring existing debt, and the financial constraints on certain international customers required us to significantly increase our allowance for doubtful accounts in the fourth quarter of 2008. During challenging economic times, and in tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce capital expenditures. This could result in reductions in revenue of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain weak or deteriorate further, we may experience a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Broadband communications markets are characterized by rapid technological change. Broadband communications markets are subject to rapid changes, making it difficult to accurately predict the markets’ future growth rates, sizes or technological directions. In view of the evolving nature of these markets, it is possible that pay TV service providers, broadcasters, content providers and other video production and delivery companies will decide to adopt alternative architectures, new business models, and/or technologies that are incompatible with our current or future products. In addition, successful new entrants into the media markets, both domestic and international, may impact existing industry business models, resulting in decreased spending by our existing customer base. Finally, decisions by customers to adopt new technologies or products are often delayed by extensive evaluation and qualification processes, which can result in delays in revenue of current and new products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture and sell products that incorporate, or are compatible with, these new architectures or technologies, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. In order to manage our growth, we must be successful in addressing management succession issues and attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. We must successfully manage transition and replacement issues that may result from the departure or retirement of members of our executive management, whether in the context of an acquisition or otherwise. We cannot assure you that changes of management personnel in the future would not cause disruption to our operations or customer relationships or a decline in our operating results. We are also dependent on our ability to retain and motivate our existing highly qualified personnel, in addition to attracting new highly qualified personnel. Competition for qualified management, technical and other personnel is often intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Competitors and others have in the past attempted, and are likely in the future to attempt, to recruit our employees. While our employees are required to sign standard agreements concerning confidentiality and ownership of inventions, we generally do not have employment contracts or non-competition agreements with any of our personnel. The loss of the services of 29 Table of Contents any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain highly qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring such personnel, particularly senior management and engineers and other technical personnel, could negatively affect our business and our results of operations. We may need additional capital in the future and may not be able to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us. We have been engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of a variety of video products and system solutions since inception, which has required, and will continue to require, significant research and development expenditures. As a result, we have generated substantial operating losses from the time we began operations in 1988. These losses have had an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.9 billion. In September 2010, we completed the acquisition of Omneon. The purchase price was approximately $251.3 million, which included approximately $153.3 million in cash, net of $40.5 million of cash acquired. The cash portion of the purchase price was paid from then existing cash balances. Taking into account the acquisition of Omneon and the use of approximately $153.3 million of cash to complete the transaction, we believe that our existing cash of $120.4 million, at December 31, 2010, will satisfy our cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need to raise additional funds if our expectations are incorrect, to take advantage of presently unanticipated strategic opportunities, to satisfy our other cash requirements from time to time, or to strengthen our financial position. Our ability to raise funds may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including factors beyond our control, such as weakness in the economic conditions in markets in which we sell our products and continued uncertainty in the financial, capital and credit markets. In particular, companies like us are experiencing some difficulty raising capital from issuances of debt or equity securities in the current capital market environment and may also have difficulty securing bank financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all, when and if it is needed. In addition, we actively review potential acquisitions that would complement our existing product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or expand our marketing and sales presence. Any future transaction of this nature could require potentially significant amounts of capital to finance the acquisition and related expenses, as well as to integrate operations following the acquisition, and could require us to issue our stock and dilute existing stockholders. We may raise additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or corporate partnership or licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, our stockholders may experience dilution. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. To the extent we raise capital through debt financing arrangements, we may be required to pledge assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. If adequate capital is not available, or is not available on reasonable terms, when needed, we may not be able to take advantage of acquisition or other market opportunities, to timely develop new products or to otherwise respond to competitive pressures. We need to effectively manage our operations. In recent years, the Company has grown significantly, principally through acquisitions, and expanded our international operations. Upon the closing of our acquisition of Scopus in the first quarter of 2009, we added 221 employees, most of whom are based in Israel. Upon the closing of the acquisition of Omneon in September 2010, we added 286 employees, most of whom are based in the U.S. In addition, we now have 440 employees in our international operations, representing approximately 40% of our worldwide workforce. Our ability to manage our business effectively in the future, including with respect to any future growth, the integration of recent and any future acquisitions, and the breadth of our international operations, will require us to train, motivate and manage our 30 Table of Contents employees successfully, to attract and integrate new employees into our overall operations, to retain key employees and to continue to improve our operational, financial and management systems. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in that regard, and our failure to effectively manage our operations could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights may adversely affect us. We currently hold 55 issued U.S. patents and 13 issued foreign patents, and have a number of patent applications pending. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, licensing arrangements, maintaining certain technology as trade secrets and other measures, we can give no assurances that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. We can give no assurances that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies, duplicate our technologies or design around the patents that we own. In addition, effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries in which we do business or may do business in the future. We believe that patents and patent applications are not currently significant to our business, and we do not rely on our patent portfolio to give us a competitive advantage over others in our industry. We believe that the future success of our business will depend on our ability to translate the technological expertise and innovation of our personnel into new and enhanced products. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, and vendors and our customers, as needed, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, we have taken in the past, and may take in the future, legal action to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management time and other resources, and could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows. In order to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. Although many companies are often willing to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, we cannot assure you that such agreements may be negotiated on reasonable terms, or at all. The failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, when necessary or desirable, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could materially and adversely affect our business. Our products include third-party technology and intellectual property, and our inability to use that technology in the future could harm our business. We incorporate certain third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products, and intend to utilize additional third-party technologies in the future. Licenses to relevant third-party technologies or updates to those technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the technologies that we license may not operate properly or as specified, and we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner, either of which could harm our business. We could face delays in product releases until alternative technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our products, if we are able to do so at all. These delays, or a failure to secure or develop adequate technology, could materially and adversely affect our business. We face risks associated with having important facilities and resources located in Israel. We maintain facilities in two locations in Israel with a total of 221 employees, or 20% of our worldwide workforce, as of December 31, 2010. Our employees in Israel engage in a number of activities, including research and development, the development of, and supply chain management, for one product line, and sales activities. 31 Table of Contents We are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any significant conflict involving Israel could have a direct effect on our business or that of our Israeli contract manufacturers, in the form of physical damage or injury, reluctance to travel within or to Israel by our Israeli and other employees or those of our subcontractors, or the loss of Israeli employees to active military duty. Most of our employees in Israel are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces, and several have been called for active military duty in recent years. In the event that more employees are called to active duty, certain of our research and development activities may be adversely affected, including significantly delayed. In addition, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, as a result of terrorist attacks or hostilities, conflicts between Israel and any other Middle Eastern country or any other cause, could significantly harm our business. Current or future tensions in the Middle East could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the Israeli government grants that we received for research and development expenditures limit our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel, and, if we fail to satisfy specified conditions in the grants, we may be required to refund such grants, together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. We are subject to import and export controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to U.S. export controls, and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception, in most cases because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers internationally. In addition, we may be subject to customs duties that could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results or, if we are able to pass on the related costs in any particular situation, would increase the cost of the related product to our customers. As a result, the future imposition of significant increases in the level of customs duties or the creation of import quotas on our products in Europe or in other jurisdictions, or any of the limitations on international sales described above, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Further, some of our customers in Europe have been, or are being, audited by local governmental authorities regarding the tariff classifications used for importation of our products. Import duties and tariffs vary by country and a different tariff classification for any of our products may result in higher duties or tariffs, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results and potentially increase the cost of the related products to our customers. Negative conditions in the global credit and financial markets may impair the liquidity or the value of a portion of our investment portfolio. The recent negative conditions in the global credit and financial markets have had an adverse impact on the liquidity of certain investments. In the event we need or desire to access funds from the short-term investments that we hold, it is possible that we may not be able to do so due to market conditions. If a buyer is found, but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par or our cost, we may incur a loss. Further, rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an impairment charge. For example, during 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.8 million relating to an investment in an unsecured debt instrument of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. Our inability to sell all or some of our short-term investments at par or our cost, or rating downgrades of issuers of these securities, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 32 Table of Contents In addition, we invest our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of investment vehicles in a number of countries with, and in the custody of, financial institutions with high credit ratings. While our investment policy and strategy attempt to manage interest rate risk, limit credit risk, and only invest in what we view as very high-quality securities, the outlook for our investment holdings is dependent on general economic conditions, interest rate trends and volatility in the financial marketplace, which can all affect the income that we receive, the value of our investments and our ability to sell them. We believe that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time the economic and market environment in which we conduct business may provide us with additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities in our portfolio that could change our judgment regarding impairment of those securities. This could result in unrealized or realized losses in our securities, relating to other than temporary declines, being charged against income. Given the current market conditions involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value of our portfolio securities may occur and additional impairments may be charged to income in future periods. If demand for our products increases more quickly than we expect, we may be unable to meet our customers’ requirements. If demand for our products increases, the difficulty of accurately forecasting our customers’ requirements and meeting these requirements will increase. Forecasting to meet customers’ needs and effectively managing our supply chain is particularly difficult in connection with newer products. Our ability to meet customer demand depends significantly on the availability of components and other materials, as well as the ability of our contract manufacturers to scale their production. Furthermore, we purchase several key components, subassemblies and modules used in the manufacture or integration of our products from sole or limited sources. Our ability to meet customer requirements depends in part on our ability to obtain sufficient volumes of these materials in a timely fashion. Increases in demand on our suppliers and subcontractors from other customers may cause sporadic shortages of certain components and products. In order to be able to respond to these issues, we have increased our inventories of certain components and products, particularly for our customers that order significant dollar amounts of our products, and expedited shipments of our products when necessary, which has increased our costs and could increase our risk of holding obsolete or excessive inventory. We also employ a demand order fulfillment model which is designed to mitigate the effects of increases or decreases in demand for any products. Nevertheless, we may be unable to respond to customer demand that increases more quickly than we expect. If we fail to meet customers’ supply expectations, our revenue would be adversely affected and we may lose business, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to various laws and regulations related to the environment and potential climate change that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws relating to the environment and potential climate change, including those governing the management, disposal and labeling of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur costs and fines, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. The ultimate costs to us under these laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. We also face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling, and disposal of certain products. For example, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, which regulates the collection, recovery, and recycling of waste from electrical and electronic products, and the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) directive, which bans the use of certain hazardous materials, including lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) that exceed certain specified levels. Legislation similar to RoHS and WEEE has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Japan, and China. Our failure to comply with these laws could result in our being 33 Table of Contents directly or indirectly liable for costs, fines or penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in such regions and countries. We also expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs, and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call, and bring business before, special meetings; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; • controlling the procedures for conduct and scheduling of Board and stockholder meetings; and • providing the Board of Directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers or changes in control of us or our management. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The rights are not intended to prevent a takeover, and we believe these rights will help us in our negotiations with any potential acquirers. However, if the Board of Directors believes that a particular acquisition of us is undesirable, the rights may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging that acquisition. The rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms, or in a manner, not approved by our Board of Directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon redemption of the rights. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, our stockholder rights plan or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our common stock price may be extremely volatile, and the value of an investment in our stock may decline. Our common stock price has been highly volatile. We expect that this volatility will continue in the future due to factors such as: • general market and economic conditions; • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or new services by us or by our competitors or customers; 34 Table of Contents • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • announcements by our customers regarding end market conditions and the status of existing and future infrastructure network deployments; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • future equity or debt offerings or our announcements of these offerings. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and the securities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations have in the past, and may in the future, materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. In these circumstances, investors may be unable to sell their shares of our common stock at or above their purchase price over the short term, or at all. Our stock price may decline if additional shares are sold in the market or if analysts drop coverage of, or downgrade, our stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, we will be required to issue additional shares upon exercise of stock options or grants of restricted stock units. Increased sales of our common stock in the market after exercise of outstanding stock options or grants of restricted stock units could exert downward pressure on our stock price. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the availability of research and reports that third-party industry or securities analysts publish about us. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the liquidity of our stock and our stock price to decline. We are exposed to additional costs and risks associated with complying with increasing regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. We have been spending a substantial amount of management time and costly external resources to comply with changes in laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by our independent registered public accounting firm in connection with the filing of our Report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures and have made improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. This process has required us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and has resulted in significant additional expenses. While our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that, as of December 31, 2010, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material respects as of December 31, 2010, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing and that of our independent registered public accounting firm in future periods. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation as of future year-ends, we will incur substantial additional costs in an effort to correct such problems and investors may lose confidence in our financial statements, and the price of our stock will likely decrease in the short term, until we correct such problems, and perhaps in the long term, as well. 35 Table of Contents The ongoing threat of terrorism has created uncertainty and may harm our business. Current conditions in the U.S. and global economies are uncertain. The terrorist attacks in the U.S. in 2001 and subsequent terrorist attacks in other parts of the world have created many economic and political uncertainties that have adversely impacted the global economy and, as a result, have adversely affected our business. The long-term effects of such attacks, of the recently increasing social and political instability in the Middle East and of the ongoing war on terrorism on our business and the global economy remain unknown. Such uncertainty has tended to increase the price of certain commodities, particularly oil, which could have an indirect adverse impact on the cost of manufacturing our products. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks makes it difficult to estimate the long term stability and strength of the U.S. and other economies, particularly those in certain emerging market countries, and the impact of resulting economic conditions on our business. The markets in which we, our customers and our suppliers operate are subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our headquarters and the majority of our operations are located in California, which is prone to earthquakes, and some of the other locations in which we, our customers and suppliers conduct business are prone to natural disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by any such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties and suffer significant financial losses. Furthermore, we rely on third-party manufacturers for the production of many of our products, and any significant disruption in the business or operations of such manufacturers could adversely impact our business. In addition, if there is a major earthquake or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which our significant customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses, or sustained business interruption and/or loss, which may materially impair their ability to continue their purchase of products from us. A major earthquake or other natural disaster in the markets in which we, our customers or suppliers operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 