Item 1A. Risk Factors Exponent operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. These uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those mentioned elsewhere in this report and those set forth below. Lack of sizable backlog may lead to less predictable, and perhaps lower, future revenues. Revenues are primarily derived from services provided in response to client requests or events that occur without notice, and engagements, generally 13 Table of Contents billed as services are performed, are terminable or subject to postponement or delay at any time by clients. As a result, backlog at any particular time is small in relation to our quarterly or annual revenues and is not a reliable indicator of revenues for any future periods. Revenues and operating margins for any particular quarter are generally affected by staffing mix, resource requirements and timing and size of engagements. Failure to attract and retain key employees may adversely affect our business. Exponent’s business involves the delivery of professional services and is labor-intensive. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Qualified personnel are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. We cannot provide any assurance that we can continue to attract sufficient numbers of highly qualified technical and managerial personnel and to retain existing employees. The loss of key managerial employees, business generators or any significant number of employees could have a material adverse impact on our business, including our ability to secure and complete engagements. Competition could reduce our pricing and adversely affect our business. The markets for our services are highly competitive. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry into our markets and we have faced, and expect to continue to face, additional competition from new entrants into our markets. Competitive pressure could reduce the market acceptance of our services and result in price reductions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The loss of a large client could adversely affect our business. We currently derive and believe that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients, organizations and insurers related to the transportation industry and the government sector. The loss of any large client, organization or insurer related to the transportation industry, government sector or any other large client, organization or insurer which is a significant customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business can be adversely affected by downturns in the overall economy. The markets that we serve are cyclical and subject to general economic conditions. The direction and relative strength of the global economy continues to be uncertain. If the economic growth in the United States, where we primarily operate, continues to be slow and not improve, our clients may consolidate or go out of business and thus demand for our services could be reduced significantly. Our clients may be unable to pay for our services. If a client’s financial difficulties become severe, the client may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of both our accounts receivable and unbilled services. On occasion, some of our clients have entered bankruptcy, which has prevented us from collecting amounts owed to us. The bankruptcy of a client with substantial accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We hold substantial investments that could present liquidity risks. Our cash equivalent portfolio as of December 31, 2010, consisted primarily of obligations of state and local government agencies. We follow an established investment policy to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. As of December 31, 2010, we had no impairment charge associated with our investment portfolio relating to such adverse financial market conditions. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has a low risk of impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain unimpaired. Our business is dependent on our professional reputation. The professional reputation of Exponent and its consultants is critical to our ability to successfully compete for new client engagements and attract or retain professionals. Proven or unproven allegations 14 Table of Contents against us may damage our professional reputation. Any factors that damage our professional reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business can be adversely impacted by deregulation or reduced regulatory enforcement. Public concern over health, safety and preservation of the environment has resulted in the enactment of a broad range of environmental and/or other laws and regulations by local, state and federal lawmakers and agencies. These laws and the implementing of new regulations affect nearly every industry, as well as the agencies of federal, state and local governments charged with their enforcement. To the extent changes in such laws, regulations and enforcement or other factors significantly reduce the exposures of manufacturers, owners, service providers and others to liability, the demand for our services may be significantly reduced. Tort reform can reduce demand for our services. Several of our practices have a significant concentration in litigation support consulting services. To the extent tort reform reduces the exposure of manufacturers, owners, service providers and others to liability, the demand for our litigation support consulting services may be significantly reduced. Our quarterly results may vary. Variations in our revenues and operating results occur from time to time, as a result of a number of factors, such as the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter, the timing of engagements, the number of working days in a quarter, employee hiring and utilization rates, and integration of companies acquired. Because a high percentage of our expenses, particularly personnel and facilities related expenses, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter, a variation in the timing of the initiation or the completion of our client assignments can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Our engagements may result in professional or other liability. Our services typically involve difficult engineering and scientific assignments and carry risks of professional and other liability. Many of our engagements involve matters that could have a severe impact on a client’s business, cause a client to lose significant amounts of money, or prevent a client from pursuing desirable business opportunities. Accordingly, if a client is dissatisfied with our performance, the client could threaten or bring litigation in order to recover damages or to contest its obligation to pay our fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently, disclosed client confidential information, lost or damaged evidence, infringed on patents, or otherwise breached our obligations to a client could expose us to significant liabilities to our clients or other third parties or tarnish our reputation. Potential conflicts of interests may preclude us from accepting some engagements. We provide litigation support consulting and other services primarily in connection with significant disputes, or other matters that are usually adversarial or that involve sensitive client information. The nature of our consulting services may preclude us from accepting engagements with other potential clients because of conflicts. Accordingly, the nature of our business limits the number of both potential clients and potential engagements. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall. These include the risk factors listed above, changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts, future sales of shares of common stock in the public market, market conditions in the industry and economy as a whole, acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors, restatement of financial results and changes in accounting principles or methods. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business. Impairment of goodwill may require us to record a significant charge to earnings On our balance sheet, we have $8,607,000 of goodwill subject to periodic testing for impairment. 15 Table of Contents Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow at reporting units, the loss of key employees, or changes to the scope of operations of our business could result in goodwill impairment charges. Our goodwill impairment analysis also includes a comparison of the aggregate estimated fair value of all reporting units to our total market capitalization. Therefore, a significant and sustained decline in our stock price could result in goodwill impairment charges. During times of financial market volatility, significant judgment is required to determine the underlying cause of the decline and whether stock price declines are short-term in nature or indicative of an event or change in circumstances. Impairment of long-lived assets or restructuring activities may require us to record a significant charge to earnings. Our long-lived assets, including our office and laboratory space in Menlo Park, California and our test and engineering center in Phoenix, Arizona, are subject to periodic testing for impairment. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow at reporting units could result in impairment of our long-lived assets. In addition, we have operating lease commitments for office, warehouse and laboratory space of $18,225,000 as of December 31, 2010. Changes in the business environment could lead to changes in the scope of operations of our business. These changes, including the closure of one or more offices, could result in restructuring and/or asset impairment charges. Our international operations create special risks that could adversely affect our business. We have physical offices in the United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland and China and conduct business in several other countries. We expect to continue to expand globally and our international revenues may account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations carry special financial, business and legal risks, including cultural and language differences; employment laws and related factors that could result in lower utilization, higher staffing costs, and cyclical fluctuations of utilizations and revenues; currency fluctuations that adversely affect our financial position and operating results; burdensome regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business; managing the risks associated with engagements with foreign officials and governmental agencies, including the risks arising from the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations; successful entry and execution in new markets; restrictions on the repatriation of earnings, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Inherent risks related to government contracts may adversely affect our business. We work for various United States and foreign governmental entities and agencies. Government entities reserve the right to audit our contracts and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to government contracts. Findings from an audit may result in fees being refunded to the government or prospective adjustment to previously agreed upon rates that will affect future margins. If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of the government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities, regardless of the adequacy of such controls. Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than other commercial contracts. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of whether it is accurate, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 