D Risk Factors Prospective investors and shareholders should be aware that any investment in the Company involves a high degree of risk and should be made only by those with the necessary expertise to appraise the investment. In addition to the other information in this document, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating whether to make or hold an investment in the Group. Additional risks currently unknown to Vernalis or currently believed to be immaterial, could have an adverse effect on the Group. Any or all of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on the Group’s operational results, financial condition and prospects. Furthermore, the trading price of the Company’s shares could decline, possibly rapidly, resulting in the loss of all or part of any investment therein. Page: 3 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc 1. For the foreseeable future, the Group will be highly dependent on the success of Frova® and Apokyn® in the marketplace. The discovery of any serious new adverse reactions to Frova® or Apokyn® could have a material adverse effect on the cash position and income of the Group. In addition, the intense competition to which Frova® and Apokyn® are subject could impede growth in Frova®’s and Apokyn®’s respective market shares. Frova® and Apokyn® are the marketed products of the Group. As such the Group’s future is highly dependent on the sales of Frova® and Apokyn® The discovery of serious new adverse reactions, including those which might result in individual or class warnings or contraindications, or its temporary or permanent withdrawal from the market, could considerably undermine the financial state of the Group. Frova® is one of seven triptans currently marketed as an acute treatment for migraine. The Company’s principal competitors for Frova® include some of the largest and most well funded pharmaceutical companies in the world, including GlaxoSmithKline plc, Merck & Co Inc, Pfizer Inc and AstraZeneca International. Sumatriptan, marketed under the name Imitrex® and developed by GlaxoSmithKline, was the first triptan approved for the acute treatment of migraine, and remains the dominant product in the United States and worldwide. Apokyn® has been granted orphan drug exclusivity by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) until 2011 but could be subject to generic competition after this exclusivity period has expired. In addition, since Apokyn® may cause a decrease in blood pressure when first administered and is also associated with nausea and vomiting, initial treatment and titration is usually conducted under medical supervision. This initial visit may require a significant time commitment from the neurologist and can create resistance to initiating Apokyn® therapy. Insurance coverage for both the drug itself and the titration office visit are additional factors that must be successfully addressed for Apokyn® to gain acceptance in the neurology community. The Group may not be able to increase or maintain the market share of Frova® or Apokyn® in light of such competition which, in turn, could have a significant adverse effect on the Group’s revenue. 2. Failure by the Group either by itself or through its licensees, for any reason, to achieve and sustain the level of sales of Frova® anticipated by the Group could adversely impact the occurrence, timing and/or amount of milestone payments and royalties and have a material adverse effect on the cash position and income of the Group. The sales and marketing of frovatriptan in Europe is controlled by Vernalis’ partner, the Menarini Group (Menarini). In North America the sales and marketing of Frova® is now undertaken by Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc (Endo) pursuant to the arrangements described in Item 4.B “Information on the Company – Business Overview – Commercial Collaborations” below. If the Group or if Menarini (in respect of Europe) or Endo (in respect of the North American market), does not exercise sufficient efforts in marketing and selling of frovatriptan/Frova®, or otherwise does not achieve the sales anticipated by the Group, this could reduce revenue and royalties payable to the Group and have a material adverse effect on the cash position and the income (and any resulting profitability) of the Group. Various situations might arise with respect to Endo, Menarini, or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates which could have an adverse effect on the sales and marketing of frovatriptan/Frova®. These include a direct or indirect sale or proposed sale to a third party or an assignment or proposed assignment of respective licences in frovatriptan/Frova® to a third party or the commencement of insolvency proceedings in respect of those entities. Page: 4 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc 3. The Group may experience delay or failure in achieving approval for the MM indication for Frova®. The Group is working towards obtaining approval for the use of Frova® for the short-term preventative treatment of MM. Frova® recently completed a third Phase III clinical trial in respect of this new indication. This latter trial, which was completed in May 2006, was a second efficacy study and corroborated the positive findings from the two previous Phase III trials. The headline data from this trial demonstrated efficacy, with statistical significance compared to placebo in the number of patients who were headache free during the peri-menstrual period. A supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) will be filed with the FDA in mid-2006, but failure to achieve FDA approval for the new indication for Frova® or restriction of the label by the FDA could adversely affect the anticipated sales potential and, therefore, income from the product. 4. Vernalis may be unable to repay Endo’s $50 million loan by August 2009 particularly if approval for Frova® in the MM indication is not obtained. The $50 million loan from Endo is repayable in full by Vernalis not later than August 2009. Endo has the option to off-set 50 per cent of any royalties payable to Vernalis under the Frova® licence agreement and 50 per cent of the $40 million milestone payment, which it will owe to Vernalis if Frova® is approved for the MM indication, against any outstanding balance of the loan. The Company’s ability to repay any outstanding amounts due under the loan in August 2009 will be dependent on its financial position at that time. If the Company fails to repay the loan in full in August 2009, Endo has the right to withhold amounts due thereafter from Endo to Vernalis under the Frova® licence agreement until the loan is repaid in full. 5. Income from Apokyn® may be adversely affected by the Group’s inability to successfully promote the product and by any failure to successfully complete Phase IV studies. Sales of Apokyn® in North America are dependent on the Group’s ability to establish its US commercial infrastructure with adequate and experienced sales personnel and on competition from generic products which may arise once Apokyn®’s Orphan Drug status in the US expires. The ability to continue to sell the product is also dependent on the successful completion of Phase IV studies, the outcome of which will be unknown until they are completed, and on any adverse reactions to Apokyn® which patients may experience and which could have a material adverse effect on sales of the product. 6. The Group has a history of operating losses and negative cash flow and may never become profitable. Vernalis is an early stage biotechnology company with a history of operating losses. No assurance can be given that the operations of the Group will become profitable. These losses have arisen mainly from the costs incurred in research and development of its products and general administrative costs. On March 16, 2006, Vernalis announced its audited preliminary results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. In this period, Vernalis’ pre-tax losses were £34.4 million. The Group’s cash and short term investments amounted to approximately £68.3 million as at December 31, 2005. To date, the Group has generated revenues through royalties, licence fees, milestone payments, contract research, supply of compound and research and development funding from its partners. In addition, Vernalis has generated income from royalty fees related to the licensing of Frova® in the US and intends to continue to generate income in the US in the future from sales revenue through its licensee, Endo and from sales of the product in Europe and any new territories. In order to support the research and development of the Company’s drug candidates, the Group plans to incur expenses considerably in excess of revenue. Sales of Frova® and Apokyn® may not generate revenues at the levels anticipated. In addition the Group is committed to the repayment of the $50 million loan from Endo on or before August 2009. The Group may not be successful in developing any additional products and any other products it may develop may not generate revenues. Page: 5 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc 7. While the Group has sufficient working capital to fund its operations for at least the next twelve months, additional funding may be required to give the Group time to reach profitability. If the Group is unable to raise additional funds it may have to curtail its operations. In general, researching new compounds and conducting pre-clinical and clinical trials is expensive. The Group’s need for capital at any given time will be dependent on a number of factors, including: • The Group’s degree of success in commercialising Frova® and Apokyn®; • The ability to enter into collaborations to support its research and development programmes; • The amount, and timing, of milestone payments the Group receives from its collaborators; • The rate of progress and cost of the Group’s research activities; • The costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • The emergence of competing products, technology and other adverse market developments; and • Changes in, or termination of, the Group’s existing collaboration and licensing arrangements. Additional funding may be required to give the Group time to reach profitability. If the Group obtains funds through a bank credit facility or through the issuance of debt securities or preferred shares, this indebtedness or preferred shares would have rights senior to the rights of holders of its Ordinary Shares, and the terms of such indebtedness or preferred shares could impose restrictions on its operations. If it is unable to raise additional funds when it needs them, the Group may be required to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of its programmes. The Group may also be forced to license compounds or technology to others that it would prefer to develop internally until a later and potentially more financially lucrative stage. If the Group raises additional funds through collaborations and other licensing arrangements, it may have to relinquish its rights to some of its compounds or technologies or grant licences on unfavourable terms. 8. The Group may be unable to retain certain important employees which could weaken the Group’s scientific and management capabilities. The Group has limited capacity to provide duplicate cover for key activities. Incentivisation of key employees to remain with the Group remains key to the Group’s success. The loss of these employees could weaken the Group’s scientific and management capabilities, resulting in delays in the development of its drugs and impacting negatively on the Group’s business. Vernalis is significantly dependent on certain scientific and management personnel. Although the Group has entered into employment or consultancy arrangements with each of the Group’s important personnel with the aim of securing their services, the retention of such services cannot be guaranteed. Biotechnology companies such as Vernalis are highly dependent on employees who have an in-depth and long-term understanding of their companies’ technologies, products, programmes, collaborative relationships and strategic goals. The biotechnology industry has a highly competitive market for qualified scientific and managerial employees. Competitors may try to recruit some of the Group’s important employees. The loss of these employees and the Group’s inability to recruit new employees to replace them could have a negative impact on the business and prospects of the Group. In addition, as the Group develops it may need to attract new personnel to manage new programmes and to provide the management experience necessary for the Group to make the transition from a development-focused company to a company with strong sales, marketing, production and distribution capabilities. The Group may also need to attract new personnel to support the promotion of Frova® in the US, in pursuance of its co-promotion rights under the agreement with Endo and to support the promotion of Apokyn®. Page: 6 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc 9. The Group may experience difficulties managing its growth. The Group’s failure to meet its growth or development challenges could have a material adverse effect on its operations. The Group plans significant growth in all areas of its operations as it expands its business either through organic growth or through mergers and acquisitions. As the Group has exercised its option under the agreement with Endo to co-promote Frova® in the US, the Group will need to undertake additional tasks not previously required. The Group’s failure to meet any growth or development challenges, noted below, could have a material adverse effect on its operations. To compete effectively and manage its growth, the Group will need to continue to: • Improve its managerial controls and procedures; • Train, manage and motivate the employee base; • Develop the necessary computer capacity and information systems to support its increasing operational needs and its discovery and development efforts; • Secure suitable office and laboratory facilities to accommodate its growing needs; • Accurately forecast demand for its research capability and products; and • Expand existing operational, financial and management information systems. 10. No assurance can be given that the Group will be able to secure rights to additional products for promotion by its US sales force. Following exercise by Vernalis of its option to co-promote Frova® with Endo in the US, Vernalis is now co-promoting Frova® and marketing its newly acquired Parkinson’s disease drug, Apokyn®. Endo is providing certain funding for up to five years from January 1, 2006 towards the support of this sales force. Additional products will be required for promotion by the sales force to maintain its viability. Vernalis continues to actively seek to license in rights to other marketed products. There can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain rights to promote such products. 11. No assurance can be made that the Group will be able to bring any of the drug candidates it is developing to market. Development of drug candidates involves a lengthy and complex process. Any drug candidate which the Group wishes to offer commercially to the public must be put through extensive research, development and pre-clinical and clinical testing which will be costly to the Group. This development process takes several years. In addition, the Group or its partners will need to obtain regulatory approvals to conduct clinical trials and manufacture drugs before they can be marketed. Results of pre-clinical studies are not necessarily indicative of results that may be obtained in clinical trials and results in early clinical trials may be different from those obtained in long-term testing or in general use. Adverse or inconclusive results from pre-clinical testing or clinical trials may substantially delay, or halt entirely, the development of products. The Group may fail to successfully develop a drug candidate for many reasons, including: • The failure to establish any collaborative third party agreements to support drug development; • The failure to produce a promising compound in sufficient quantities to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture the compound at commercially acceptable quantities and prices; • The failure of the drug in pre-clinical studies; • The inability of clinical trials to demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective in humans; or • The failure to obtain required regulatory approvals. Page: 7 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc 12. The drugs that the Group brings to market may not be commercially successful. The Group’s success depends on acceptance of the Group’s products by the market, including by physicians and third-party payers, and consequently the Group’s progress may be adversely affected if it is unable to achieve market acceptance of its products. Some factors that may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of any of the Group’s products include: • The existence or entry onto the market of superior competing products or therapies; • The price of the Group’s products compared to competing products; • Public perception regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of the Group’s products compared to competing products or therapies; • The effectiveness of the Group’s sales and marketing efforts and those of the Group’s marketing partners; • Regulatory developments related to manufacturing or use of the Group’s products; • The willingness of physicians to adopt a new treatment regimen; and • Publicity concerning the product type in general. 13. There can be no assurance that the Group’s products will receive and maintain regulatory approval. The complexity and multi-jurisdictional nature of the applicable regulatory processes could result in delays in achieving such regulatory approval. The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated by numerous governmental authorities in the US, the UK and Europe and by regulatory agencies in other countries where the Group intends to test or market products it may develop. National regulatory authorities administer a wide range of laws and regulations governing the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of drugs and also review the quality, safety and effectiveness of pharmaceutical products. These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether a substance can be developed into a marketable product and the amount of time and expense associated with such development. Government regulation imposes significant costs and restrictions on the development of pharmaceutical products for human use, including those the Group is developing. The development, clinical evaluation, manufacture and marketing of the Group’s products and ongoing research and development activities are subject to regulation by governments and regulatory agencies in all territories within which the Group intends to manufacture and market its products (whether themselves or through a partner). No assurance can be given that any of the Group’s products will successfully complete the clinical trial process or that regulatory approvals to manufacture and market these products will ultimately be obtained. The time taken to obtain regulatory approval varies between territories and no assurance can be given that any of the Group’s products will be approved in any territory within the timescale envisaged, or at all. This may result in a delay, or make impossible, the commercialisation of its products. Furthermore, each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements (for instance, by restricting the product’s indicated uses) and may refuse to grant, or may require additional data before granting, an approval, even though the relevant product candidate may have been approved by another country’s authority. If regulatory approval is obtained, the product and its manufacture will be subject to continual review and this approval may be withdrawn or restricted. Changes in applicable legislation or regulatory policies, or discovery of problems with the product, or its production process, site or manufacturer, may result in the imposition of restrictions on the product, its sale, manufacture or use, including withdrawal of the product from the market, or may otherwise have an adverse effect on the Group’s business. Page: 8 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc 14. Even if the Group’s products are approved, they may still face later regulatory difficulties. Even if the Group receives regulatory approval to sell any of its products, the FDA, the UK Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency or comparable foreign regulatory agencies could require the Group to conduct post-marketing trials or could prevent the Group from using the labelling claims which the Group would like to use to promote its products. Regulators will undertake periodic reviews and inspections. If they discover previously unknown problems with a product or its manufacturing facility or if the Group fails to comply with regulatory requirements, regulators could: • Impose fines against the Group; • Impose restrictions on the product, its manufacturer, or the Group; • Require the Group to recall or remove a product from the market; • Suspend or withdraw its regulatory approvals; • Require the Group to conduct additional clinical trials; • Require the Group to change its product labelling; or • Require the Group to submit additional marketing applications. If any of these events occur, the Group’s ability to sell its products will be impaired and the Group may incur substantial additional expense to comply with the regulatory requirements. In addition, in certain countries, even after regulatory approval, the Group is still required to obtain price reimbursement approval. This may delay the marketing of the Group’s products or, when approval cannot be obtained, mean that the product cannot be sold at all. 15. The Group’s business faces intense competition from major pharmaceutical companies and specialised biotechnology companies engaged in the development of drugs directed at the conditions and disorders that are the focus of the Group’s drug programmes. The Group’s competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may have superior research and development capabilities, drugs, manufacturing capability or marketing expertise. Many of the Group’s competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources and may have more experience in research and development. As a result, the Group’s competitors may develop safer or more effective drugs, implement more effective sales and marketing programmes or be able to establish superior proprietary positions. In addition, the Group anticipates that it will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the Group’s markets and alternative drugs and technologies become available. The Group’s products under development are expected to address a broad range of markets. The Group’s competitive position will be determined in part by the potential indications for which the Group’s products are developed and ultimately approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, the first pharmaceutical product to reach the market in a therapeutic or preventive area may be at a significant competitive advantage relative to late entrants to the market. Accordingly, the relative speed with which the Group or its collaborative partners can develop products, complete the clinical trials and approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market, are expected to be important competitive factors. The Group’s competitors are developing products that could compete with the drug candidates the Group is developing. The Group and its collaborators will need to persuade patients and physicians to adopt its products over its competitors’ products. 16. Technological changes could overtake the products being developed by the Group. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid technological change which could affect the success of the Group’s drugs or make them obsolete. The field of biotechnology is characterised by significant and rapid technological change. Research and discoveries by others may result in medical insights or breakthroughs which render the Group’s drug candidates less competitive or even obsolete before they generate revenue. Page: 9 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc 17. The Group may not be able to sell its drugs profitably if reimbursement from third party payers, including government and private health insurers, is unavailable or limited. The Group may be adversely affected by third-party reimbursement and healthcare cost containment initiatives. A significant portion of the Group’s future revenue is likely to depend on payments by third-party payers, including government health administration authorities and private health insurers. The Group may not be able to sell its drugs profitably if reimbursement from these sources is unavailable or limited. Third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs through measures that are likely to impact the drugs the Group is developing, including: • Challenging the prices charged for healthcare products, by limiting both coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new therapeutic products, and by denying or limiting coverage for drugs that are approved by the regulatory agencies but are considered experimental by third-party payers; and • Refusing to provide coverage when an approved drug is used in a way that has not received regulatory marketing approval. 18. The Group may be unable to successfully establish and protect its intellectual property which is significant to the Group’s competitive position. The Group’s success depends in part on its ability to obtain and maintain protection for its inventions and proprietary information, so that it can stop others from making, using or selling its inventions or proprietary rights. The Group owns a portfolio of patents and patent applications and is the authorised licensee of other patents. There is a significant delay between the time of filing of a patent application and the time its contents are made public, and others may have filed patent applications for subject matter covered by the Group’s pending patent applications without the Group being aware of those applications. The Group’s patent applications may not have priority over patent applications of others and its pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. Even if the Group obtains patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against others. Moreover, even if the Group receives patent protection for some or all of its products, those patents may not give the Group an advantage over competitors with similar products. To develop and maintain its competitive position, the Group also relies on unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation, which it protects with security measures it considers to be reasonable, including confidentiality agreements with its collaborators, consultants and employees. The Group may not have adequate remedies if these agreements are breached and the Group’s competitors may independently develop any of this proprietary information. If the Group fails to obtain adequate protection for its intellectual property, the Group’s competitors may be able to take advantage of the Group’s research and development efforts. The Group’s success will depend, in large part, on its ability to obtain and maintain patent or other proprietary protection for its technologies in general and, in particular, drugs and processes. The Group may not be able to obtain patent protection for the composition of matter of discovered compounds, processes developed by its employees or medical uses of compounds discovered through its technology. Legal standards relating to patents covering pharmaceutical or biotechnological inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents are still developing. There is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. The Group’s patent position is therefore highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual issues. 19. The Group may incur substantial costs as a result of disputes relating to intellectual property. The Group may have to initiate litigation to enforce its patent and licence rights. If the Group’s competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by the Group, the Group may have to participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention. An adverse outcome could subject the Group to significant liabilities and require the Group either to cease using a technology or to pay licence fees. Page: 10 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc The Group could incur substantial costs in any litigation or other proceeding relating to patent rights, even if it is resolved in the Group’s favour. Some of the Group’s competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex litigation more effectively or for a longer time than the Group can because of their substantially greater resources. In addition, uncertainties relating to any patent, pending patent or intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s ability to bring a drug candidate to market, enter into collaborations in respect of the disputed or other drug candidates, or raise additional funds. 20. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect the Group’s results of operations and financial condition. The Group records its transactions and prepares its financial statements in pounds sterling, but a substantial proportion of the Group’s income from sales of Frova® and collaborative agreements is received in US dollars or Euros including payments from Endo under the agreement for Frova®. A fixed milestone payment of $15 million is due from Endo in August 2006. In addition, a further payment of $40 million is due to Vernalis from Endo conditional on obtaining FDA approval to market Frova® for short-term prevention of MM. Sales-related milestones may also be due to Vernalis dependent upon Frova® achieving certain annual sales targets. In addition, as at December 31, 2005, the Group had a US$5 million denominated liability to GlaxoSmithKline and a loan outstanding to Endo for US$50 million plus accrued interest agreed at the time of the Frova® licensing agreement. Furthermore, the Group incurs a proportion of its expenditure in US dollars, relating primarily to the clinical trials that it conducts in the US and to the costs of its US commercial operation. The Group’s cash balances are predominantly held in pounds sterling. To the extent that the Group’s foreign currency assets and liabilities are not matched, fluctuations in exchange rates between pounds sterling, the US dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Euro may result in realised or unrealised exchange gains and losses on translation of the underlying currency into pounds sterling that may increase or decrease the Group’s results of operations and may adversely affect the Group’s financial condition each as stated in pounds sterling. In addition, if the currencies in which the Group earns its revenues and/or holds its cash balances weaken against the currencies in which it incurs its expenses, this could adversely affect the Group’s profitability and liquidity. Where a substantial net foreign currency liability exists, the Group will consider hedging against it to minimise foreign currency expense. However, such hedging is based on estimates of liabilities and future revenues and will not fully eliminate future foreign currency exchange fluctuations. 21. The Group cannot guarantee that its collaborators will devote sufficient resources to collaborations with the Group or that the Group’s drug candidates can be developed and commercialised without these collaborators. The Group’s success is dependent on its current collaborators and contractors and the ability of the Group to attract new collaborators and contractors in the future. The Group’s collaborators have and in the future are likely to have substantial responsibility for some of the development and commercialisation of the Group’s drug candidates. Certain of the Group’s collaborators also have, and in the future are likely to have, significant discretion over the resources they devote to these efforts. The Group’s success, therefore, will depend on the ability and efforts of these outside parties in performing their responsibilities. Currently, Vernalis’ most important collaborators are Endo, Menarini, Serono S.A., Oscient Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Oscient) of which Genesoft Pharmaceuticals, Inc (Genesoft) is a subsidiary, Biogen Idec Inc (Biogen Idec), The Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (Novartis) and Reckitt Benckiser plc (Reckitt Benckiser). The Group’s business will rely significantly on these strategic partners. If the relationship with any one of these partners (or their co-partners) is adversely affected, the Group’s results of operations may be adversely impacted. As the Group is unable to provide for all of its research, development, manufacturing, marketing or sales needs, the Group is also dependent on third party contractors and their services and upon their effort and skill in providing those services. Page: 11 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc The Group cannot guarantee that: • Existing collaborative arrangements or licence agreements or agreements with third party contractors will be able to be maintained; • Any new collaborative arrangements or licence agreements or agreements with third party contractors will be on favourable terms; or • Any collaborative arrangements or licence agreements or agreements with third party contractors will prove successful. If the Group is unable to continue with any of the existing collaborations and, following negotiations with the relevant partners, terminates a collaboration, no assurance can be given that this will not have a negative impact on the reputation of the Group or its ability to secure additional collaborations in the future. The termination of any agreements with third party contractors or their failure to perform their obligations under such agreements could have a disruptive effect on the Group’s business. 22. The Group is dependent on single sources of supply for its compounds in research and development and for Apokyn® and Frova® and some of their components. The Group currently depends on single sources of supply (in some cases through individual purchase orders rather than long term contracts) for components it needs to conduct its research and development activities and for some of the raw materials and ingredients used to manufacture and supply Frova® and Apokyn® in finished form. These suppliers may be unwilling or unable to meet the Group’s future needs. Replacing one of these suppliers or finding additional suppliers could take a long time. For example, if circumstances required the Group to locate either an alternative supplier for the raw materials and ingredients used to manufacture Frova® and Apokyn® or an alternative secondary manufacturer, manufacture and delivery to the marketplace of Frova® and Apokyn® could be interrupted. Similarly, if the Group had to interrupt its research or development programmes in order to locate an alternative supplier of essential components, the Group could be forced to delay preclinical or clinical trials. Any of these events would adversely affect the Group’s programmes and projected revenues. 23. The Group’s suppliers may encounter unexpected difficulties in the design and construction of manufacturing processes and the scale-up of production to viable commercial levels. Suppliers of the Group may encounter unexpected difficulties in the design and construction or adaptation of production facilities and the scale-up of production processes to viable commercial levels. These difficulties could result in substantial additional costs or affect the commercial viability of a product. 24. If the Group fails to maintain its computer hardware, software and related infrastructure, market approval could be delayed and revenues lost. The Group’s research and development programmes involve the analysis of large amounts of data. The Group depends on the continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of its computer hardware, software and related infrastructure. If the Group’s hardware or software malfunctions, or if their operations are interrupted by forces beyond the Group’s control, the Group will experience reduced productivity. Page: 12 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc 25. There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to identify suitable partners, enter into business combinations with them and successfully integrate their operations with the Group’s operations. The acquisition of assets by the Group may be made for shares, diluting existing shareholdings. The biotechnology sector in the United States and in Europe has been characterised by consolidation. It is possible that the Company may participate further in the consolidation of the biotechnology sector. The Group’s competitors may also pursue business combinations and bid for companies that the Group views as potential partners in a business combination. As a result, the Group may be unable to locate or enter into business combinations with partners that are the most suitable to its product platform and business strategy, which would limit the synergies created by a business combination. There can be no guarantee that the Group will be able to successfully integrate any businesses or assets that it may acquire in future transactions. Part of the Group’s business strategy is to acquire businesses and assets specialising in pharmaceutical research and development and related services. At this time Vernalis is not a party to any definitive agreement for the acquisition of any material business or assets (other than agreements in the ordinary course of business) and no guarantee can be given that definitive agreements may be reached with any person, or that if definitive agreements are executed, that such agreements will be consummated. The Group may acquire assets for which it pays wholly or partly in shares of the Company, diluting existing shareholdings. 26. Investors should consider the Group’s business and prospects in light of the heightened risks and unexpected expenses and problems the Group may face as a business in an early stage of development in a new and rapidly evolving industry. Vernalis’ operating history makes it difficult for an investor to evaluate its business and prospects. The Group’s product pipeline may not result in any meaningful benefits to the Group. Due to the limited operating history referred to above, the Group may have difficulty accurately forecasting its revenue. In addition, because the number of product candidates to which the Group can devote development effort is limited by the availability of financial and scientific resources, the Group is exposed to the risk that the delay or failure of individual product development programs will adversely affect the content and delivery over time of the Group’s product development pipeline. 27. Ordinary Shares may fluctuate in value substantially. The market price for Ordinary Shares and the securities of other emerging biotechnology companies have been volatile. During the 12 months ended December 31, 2004, Vernalis’ closing share price ranged from 47.5 pence to 97 pence and during the 12 months ended December 31 2005 ranged from 57.25 pence to 88.5 pence. Factors that could significantly impact the market price of Ordinary Shares in the future other than those described elsewhere in this document include: • Sales of Frova® and Apokyn®; • Announcements concerning research activities, technological innovations, clinical trials or financial results by the Group or its competitors; • Termination of collaborations by the Group or its partners; • Governmental regulatory initiatives; • The FDA, the UK Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency or the European Medicines Evaluation Agency approving or denying new drug applications; • Patent or proprietary rights developments; • Public concern as to the safety or ethical implications of biotechnology products; • Ability to raise additional funds to, amongst other things, repay its $50 million loan to Endo (which is repayable in full in August 2009), and to fund research and development projects; • Sales of substantial amounts of the Group’s shares by existing shareholders; • Price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large that do not relate to the Group’s operating performance; • Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, comments by securities analysts, or the Group’s failure to meet analysts’ expectations; • Actual or anticipated variations in periodic operating results; Page: 13 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc • New products or services introduced or announced by the Group or its competitors; • Changes in the market valuations of other similar companies; • Announcements by the Group of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and • Additions or departures of key personnel. 28. The Group may be unable to secure adequate insurance at an acceptable cost. The Group’s business exposes it to potential product liability, and professional indemnity and other risks which are inherent in the research and development, pre-clinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and use of pharmaceutical products. No assurance can be made that product liability, clinical trials or any future necessary insurance cover will be available to the Group at an acceptable cost, if at all, or that, if there is any claim, the level of the insurance the Group carries now or in the future will be adequate or that a product liability, professional indemnity or other claim would not materially and adversely affect the Group’s business. In addition, it may be necessary for the Group to secure certain levels of insurance as a condition to the conduct of clinical trials. In the event of any claim, the Group’s insurance coverage may not be adequate. 29. Competition regulation may have an impact on the way the Group conducts its business and its dealings with private counter-parties and government collaborators. The Group’s activities will be subject to several competition law regimes, including those of the European Union, Canada, the US and the UK. Article 81(1) of the EC Treaty prohibits agreements between undertakings which have as their object, or effect, the restriction, prevention or distortion of competition within the European Union and which may affect trade between member states. The UK has equivalent competition law provisions concerning agreements that affect trade within the UK. Agreements restricting competition to an appreciable extent within the meaning of Article 81(1) are void in whole or in part. The European Commission may impose fines of up to 10 per cent of the respective worldwide turnover in the preceding business year on parties entering into such agreements. Persons who have suffered loss by reason of the anti-competitive restrictions may claim damages against those parties. Agreements satisfying certain criteria are automatically exempt from the application of Article 81(1) by virtue of the fact that they fall within a block exemption. Prior to 1 May 2004, parties to an agreement not covered by a block exemption could apply to the European Commission for an individual exemption from the Article 81(1) prohibition under Article 81(3). Since 1 May 2004 however, the parties themselves must assess whether the exemption criteria under Article 81(3) are met and it is no longer possible to apply to the European Commission for an individual exemption. Certain agreements that the Group has entered into or may enter into, such as with collaborators and licensees, contain provisions which might be deemed to be restrictive of competition under Article 81(1). In particular, certain licence agreements that a member of the Group has entered into, or the Group may enter into, involving the grant of exclusive licences of patents, patent applications, other intellectual property rights and know-how covering the EU territory and/or territorial restrictions may appreciably restrict competition under Article 81(1). If a block exemption is not applicable and the Article 81(3) individual exemption criteria are not met, provisions of any agreement that restricts competition under Article 81(1), including those relating to the exclusivity rights, may be unenforceable, which could have a material adverse effect on that company. The relevant company could also potentially be subject to fines and/or claims for damages in relation to any anti-competitive arrangements which it enters. Page: 14 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc The Group’s activities will also be subject to the EC rules on state aid. Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty prohibits any aid granted by a member state or through state resources which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods and which affects trade between member states. Articles 87(2) and 87(3) provide a list of exhaustive categories of aid compatible with the common market. The European Commission must be informed of any plans to grant or alter aid falling within the meaning of Article 87(1) unless it qualifies under the block exemption de minimis threshold and, if it finds that a State aid has been granted or altered without prior notification, it is entitled to require the member state in question to suspend the aid pending the outcome of its decision. If the European Commission finds that the aid is incompatible with the common market, it will generally require repayment of the aid with interest. Certain arrangements that the Group has entered into or the Group may enter into, for example with governmental collaborators, may involve benefits which might be said to be state aid under Article 87(1). The relevant company will determine on a case-by-case basis whether the effect of any arrangement is to grant or alter aid which should be notified to the European Commission. Any such arrangements which are not notified and subsequently found to be incompatible with the common market could potentially have to be repaid. 30. The use of hazardous materials may subject the Group to additional compliance costs and/or liability in the event of a hazardous waste spill or other accident. The Group’s research work involves the controlled use of biological waste, chemicals, and hazardous, infectious and radioactive materials. The Group is subject to UK and European environmental laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials and other waste products. Despite its precautions for handling and disposing of these materials, the Group cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. In the event of a hazardous waste spill or other accident, the Group could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. If the Group fails to comply with any laws or regulations, or if an accident occurs, the Group may have to pay significant penalties and will be held liable for any damages that result. This liability could exceed the Group’s financial resources and could harm its reputation. The Group may also have to incur significant additional costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. The Group’s failure to comply with any government regulation applicable to its laboratory and the materials used in its laboratory may adversely affect its ability to develop, produce or market any products it may develop. 31. The Group may face product liability claims. The Group may become subject to shareholders’ action. The Group in carrying out its activities will potentially face contractual and statutory claims, or other types of claim from customers, suppliers and/or investors. In addition, the Group is exposed to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the research and development, pre-clinical study, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and use of pharmaceutical products. Consumers, healthcare producers or persons selling products based on the Group’s technology may be able to bring claims against the Group based on the use of such products in clinical trials and the sale of products based on the Group’s technology. 32. The Group may be subject to special interest groups and adverse public opinion. Government bodies and regulatory agencies require that potential pharmaceutical products are subject to pre-clinical studies, including animal testing, prior to conducting human trials. Vernalis arranges for such work either directly or through its collaborators. Such work can be subject to adverse public opinion and has attracted the attention of special interest groups, including those of animal rights activists. Such special interest groups have targeted Vernalis in the past but this has not had a significant impact on Vernalis’ operations to date. There can, however, be no assurance that such groups will not, in the future, focus on the Group’s activities or those of its licensees or collaborators, or that any such public opinion would not adversely affect the Group’s operations. Page: 15 Table of Contents Vernalis Plc The pharmaceutical industry is frequently subject to adverse publicity on many topics, including corporate governance or accounting issues, product recalls and research and discovery methods, as well as to political controversy over the impact of novel techniques and therapies on humans, animals and the environment. Adverse publicity about the Group, its collaborators, its products, or any other part of the industry may hurt the Group’s public image, which could harm its operations, cause its share price to decrease or impair its ability to gain market acceptance for its products. 