Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Operations We are dependent upon production of precious metals and industrial minerals from a limited number of properties, have incurred substantial losses since our inception in 1991, and may never be profitable. Since our inception in 1991, we have not been profitable. As of June 30, 2012, our total accumulated deficit was approximately $64.0 million. To become profitable, we must identify mineralization and establish reserves, and then either develop properties ourselves or locate and enter into agreements with third party operators. We may suffer significant additional losses in the future and may never be profitable. There can be no assurance we will receive significant revenue from operations in the foreseeable future, if at all. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 8 We ceased mining operations at our Black Canyon mica property in 2002 after unsuccessful attempts to begin profitable operations. We have established only limited probable reserves at our Summit silver-gold property, and have not established proven or probable reserves at our Ortiz gold property or at our Planet micaceous iron property. If we are unable to economically produce silver or gold from our Summit or Ortiz properties, we will be forced to identify and invest substantial sums in one or more additional properties. Such properties may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with exploration and development of mining properties, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We will require significant additional capital to continue our exploration activities, and, if warranted, to develop mining operations. We will require significant additional funding for geological and geochemical analysis, metallurgical testing, and, if warranted, feasibility studies with regard to the results of our exploration. We may not benefit from such investments if we are unable to identify a commercial ore deposit. If we are successful in identifying reserves, we will require significant additional capital to establish a mine and construct a mill and other facilities necessary to mine those reserves. That funding, in turn, will depend upon a number of factors, including the state of the national and worldwide economy and the price of gold and other metals. We may not be successful in obtaining the required financing for these or other purposes, which would adversely affect our ability to continue operating. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and the possible, partial or total loss of our potential interest in certain properties. Our industry is highly competitive, attractive mineral lands are scarce, and we may not be able to obtain quality properties. We compete with many companies in the mining business, including large, established mining companies with substantial capabilities, personnel and financial resources far greater than our own. In addition, there is a limited supply of desirable mineral properties available for acquisition in the United States and in other areas where we may conduct exploration activities. For these reasons, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring mineral properties. Competition in the industry is not limited to the acquisition of mineral properties but also extends to the technical expertise to operate such properties and the financial ability to fund such properties. Our inability to compete with other companies in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and business. The feasibility of mining our Ortiz gold property has not been established, meaning that we have not completed engineering, permitting or other work necessary to determine if it is commercially feasible to develop this property. We currently have established only limited probable reserves on the Summit silver-gold property and have not established proven or probable reserves on the Ortiz gold property. A “reserve,” as defined by regulation of the SEC, is that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. A reserve requires a feasibility study demonstrating with reasonable certainty that the deposit can be economically and legally extracted and produced. We have not received feasibility studies nor obtained necessary operating permits with regard to the Ortiz gold property. As a result, we have no reserves at the Ortiz gold property. At the Summit silver-gold property, a qualified independent engineering firm has completed an engineering study that concluded there would be minimal risk in proceeding to development and mining on the basis of estimates of mineralized material. Subsequently, we have established probable reserves. However, our early stage estimate carries significant risks associated with factors including but not limited to the following: The limited amount of drilling completed to date. The Summit deposit is defined by only 78,000 feet of drilling in 88 drill holes. These holes are spaced to intersect the mineralized zone up to 200 feet apart, a drilling density insufficient for detailed mine planning in this style of epithermal precious metals deposit. As a result, mine plans are preliminary in nature and details must be developed in conjunction with underground development. 9 Process and metallurgical testing has been limited to small pilot plant and bench scale testing. This causes uncertainty in metallurgical recovery and operating factors when scaling up to the full sized commercial plant. Although operating results to date at the Banner mill indicate that the mill will perform satisfactorily, additional fine tuning is necessary in order to optimize recovery of precious metals. Samples collected for metallurgical testing were selected from drill core from various parts of the Summit deposit and from samples taken from old underground workings located in the upper part of the deposit. Because of the small number and size of samples available for metallurgical testing, metallurgical results may not accurately characterize the deposit as a whole. The project has no significant operating history upon which to base estimates of operating costs and capital requirements. As a result, estimations of mineralized material, mining and process recoveries and operating costs have been based to a large extent upon the interpretation of geologic data from drill holes, and upon engineering estimates that derive forecasts of operating costs from anticipated tonnages and grades of mineralized material to be mined and processed, the configuration of the deposit, expected recovery rates of gold and silver from the mineralized material, comparable facility and equipment costs, and climatic conditions and other factors. Estimates of operating costs and capital requirements are preliminary estimates only. Commonly in new projects, actual construction costs, operating costs and economic returns differ materially from those initially estimated. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Summit mine or Banner mill can be brought into operation within the time frame or at the cost anticipated by the Company, or that the forecasted operating results can be achieved. Substantial additional work and expenditures are required to demonstrate economic viability for the Ortiz project. The mineralized materials identified to date have not and may never demonstrate economic viability. The feasibility of mining has not been, and may never be, established. Whether a mineral deposit can be commercially viable depends upon a number of factors, including the particular attributes of the deposit, including size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; metal prices, which can be highly variable; and government regulations, including environmental and reclamation obligations. If we are unable to establish some or all of our mineralized material as proven or probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital to develop a mine. If we are unable to establish such reserves, the market value of our securities may decline. Fluctuating gold and silver prices could negatively impact our business plan. The potential for profitability of gold and silver mining operations at our Summit silver-gold property and at our Ortiz gold property and the values of these properties are directly related to the market prices of gold and silver. The prices of gold and silver may also have a significant influence on the market price of our common stock. In the event that we obtain positive feasibility results and progress to a point where a commercial production decision can be made, our decision to put a mine into production and to commit the funds necessary for that purpose must be made long before any revenue from production would be received. A decrease in the price of gold or silver at any time during future development or mining may prevent our properties from being economically mined or result in the impairment of assets as a result of lower gold or silver prices. The prices of gold and silver are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including inflation, fluctuation of the United States dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional demand, the purchase or sale of gold by central banks, and the political and economic conditions of major gold producing countries throughout the world. During the last five years, the average annual market price of gold has progressively increased from $695 per ounce to $1572 per ounce, as shown in the table below. Information was obtained from Kitco.com: Average Annual Market Price of Gold, 2007-2011 (per ounce) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 $ 695 $ 872 $ 972 $ 1225 $ 1572 10 During the last five years, the average annual market price of silver has increased from $13.38 per ounce to $35.12 per ounce, as shown in the table below. Information was obtained from Kitco.com: Average Annual Market Price of Silver, 2007-2011 (per ounce) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 $ 13.38 $ 14.99 $ 14.67 $ 20.19 $ 35.12 Although it may be possible for us to protect against future gold and silver price fluctuations through hedging programs, the volatility of metal prices represents a substantial risk that is impossible to completely eliminate by planning or technical expertise. In the event gold or silver prices decline and remain low for prolonged periods of time, we might be unable to continue with development and mining of our Summit silver-gold property or to develop our Ortiz gold property or produce any significant revenue. The continuation of commercial mining operations of our Summit silver-gold property or any proposal for development of our Ortiz gold property will be subject to permitting requirements that could cause us to delay, suspend or terminate our mining and development plans. Mining and processing operations at the Summit silver-gold property or at the Ortiz gold property require permits from the state and federal governments. We may be unable to obtain such permits in a timely manner, on reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain or maintain the necessary permits, or if there is a delay in receiving such permits, our timetable and business plan for development and mining of one or both of these properties could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of water to complete desired development and mining of our Summit silver-gold property or of our Ortiz gold property. For successful development, we will need to obtain the rights for a sufficient amount of water to service the mining and processing operation. Our lease with Ortiz Mines, Inc. gives us all rights that Ortiz Mines, Inc. may have to initiate and use water and water rights in connection with the property, including among others the right to drill, pump, divert, transport and use water from wells, containment areas and drainages. However there can be no assurance we will be able to exercise our rights under the lease agreement or obtain access to the amount of water needed to operate a mine at the property. For our Summit silver-gold property, this risk is mitigated in that sufficient water for mining purposes can be purchased and trucked to the Summit property; and sufficient water is available for processing purposes on our Lordsburg mill site property, for which water we have usage rights. We may be at risk of losing title to our Ortiz gold property lease if we fail to perform our obligations. Under the terms of our lease with Ortiz Mines, Inc., we are required to meet certain obligations as is common in a mineral lease of this type. Among other requirements, we must begin mineral production by February 2015 (February 2022 in certain circumstances), make annual payments, meet minimum expenditure requirements, pay a sliding-scale production royalty based on the price of gold and comply with all governmental permitting and other regulations. If we fail to make payments or meet expenditure requirements in a timely manner or to perform our other obligations as required under the lease, we are at risk that the lease could be cancelled. The reserve estimations at our Summit property are imprecise. Although we have relied on expert independent consultants to calculate the reserve estimations disclosed in our reports, such estimations are necessarily imprecise because they depend upon the judgment of the individuals who review the geological and engineering information and upon statistical inferences drawn from only limited drilling and sampling. If the Summit mining operation were to encounter mineralization or geologic conditions different from those predicted, reserve estimations might have to be adjusted and mining plans altered. Changes to the planned operations could adversely affect forecast costs and profitability. 11 The future prices of mica and feldspathic sand are uncertain. According to published information, mica prices have varied over the past several years, and the outlook for future mica prices is unclear. Manufactured sand prices in the Phoenix area generally have fluctuated over the past several years, with demand driven by the state of the housing, construction, and recreational markets, which in recent years has undergone a dramatic decline. There are numerous factors beyond our control that could affect markets for both mica and feldspathic sand. No assurance can be given as to future prices or demand for products, if any, that could be produced from our Black Canyon mica project. Any decline in prices could have a material adverse effect on project economics. Titles to unpatented claims can be uncertain, and we are at risk of loss of ownership of our Black Canyon mica property and a portion of our Summit and Lordsburg properties. Our property holdings at the Black Canyon mica property and a portion of our holdings at our Summit and Lordsburg properties consist of unpatented mining claims and unpatented mill site claims located on public land and held pursuant to the General Mining Law of 1872. The validity of such unpatented mining claims may be subject to title defects and may be contested. Because a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the United States occurs on unpatented mining claims, this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry. We have not obtained a title opinion on our entire property, with the attendant risk that title to some claims, particularly title to undeveloped property, may be defective. Although we believe that our claims are in good standing and held according to industry practice, we remain at risk that the mining claims may be forfeited either to the United States or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements as to location and maintenance of the claims or challenges as to whether a discovery of a valuable mineral exists on every claim. In recent years the United States Congress has considered amendments to the General Mining Law of 1872, some of which would lower the value of unpatented mining claims by restricting activities and imposing additional user fees or production royalties. If enacted, these legislative changes could have an adverse impact on our operations. The development and completion of our properties entail significant risks. The development of mineral deposits involves significant risks that even the best evaluation, experience and knowledge cannot eliminate. The economic feasibility of our mining properties is based upon a number of factors, including estimations of reserves and mineralized material, extraction and process recoveries, engineering, capital and operating costs, future production rates and future prices of gold, silver, copper, mica, feldspathic sand and micaceous iron oxide. Our properties have no significant operating history upon which to base estimates of operating costs and capital requirements. As a result, estimations of mineralized material and reserves, mining and process recoveries and operating costs must be based to a large extent upon the interpretation of geologic data obtained from drill holes, and upon scoping and feasibility estimates that derive forecasts of operating costs from anticipated tonnages and grades of mineralized material and reserves to be mined and processed, the configuration of the mineralized deposits, expected recovery rates of minerals, comparable facility and equipment costs, and climatic conditions and other factors. Commonly in new projects, actual construction costs, operating costs and economic returns differ materially from those initially estimated. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our properties can be developed within the time frames or at the costs anticipated, or that any forecasted operating results can be achieved. The nature of mineral exploration and production activities involves a high degree of risk and the possibility of uninsured losses that could materially and adversely affect our operations. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risk than many other businesses. Most exploration programs fail to result in the discovery of economic mineralization. Our exploration and mining efforts are subject to the operating hazards and risks common to the industry, such as: economically insufficient mineralized materials; decrease in reserves due to lower metal prices; 12 fluctuations in production cost that may make mining uneconomical; unanticipated variations in grade and other geologic problems; unusual or unexpected formations; difficult surface or underground conditions; failure of pit walls or dams; metallurgical and other processing problems; environmental hazards; water conditions; mechanical and equipment performance problems; scarcity or high cost of skilled labor scarcity or high cost of mining equipment industrial accidents; personal injury, fire, flooding, cave-ins and landslides; labor disputes; and governmental regulations. Any of these risks can adversely affect the feasibility of development of our properties, production quantities and rates, and costs and expenditures. We currently have no insurance to guard against any of these risks. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral properties are likely not to be recovered, a write-down of our investment would be necessary. All of these factors may result in unrecoverable losses or cause us to incur potential liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Our ongoing operations, including past mining activities, are subject to environmental risks that could expose us to significant liability and delay, suspension or termination of our operations. All phases of our operations will be subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Future changes in environmental regulation, if any, may adversely affect our operations, make our operations prohibitively expensive, or prohibit them altogether. Environmental hazards may exist on the Black Canyon mica property, the Summit silver-gold property, the Lordsburg property, the Ortiz gold property, and the Planet micaceous iron oxide property and on properties in which we may hold interests in the future that are unknown to us at the present. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities, causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Production, if any, at our projects may involve the use of hazardous materials. Should these materials leak or otherwise be discharged from their containment systems, then we may become subject to liability for hazards. We have not purchased insurance for environmental risks including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production, as it is not generally available at a reasonable price. In addition to environmental regulations, we are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations directly and indirectly relating to mining that often change and could adversely affect our business. We are subject to extensive United States federal, state and local laws and regulations related to mine prospecting, development, transportation, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health and safety, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, mine safety, hazardous materials, toxic substances and other matters. These laws and regulation frequently change. New laws and regulations or more stringent enforcement of existing ones could have a material adverse impact on us, causing a delay or reduction in production, increasing costs and preventing an expansion of mining activities. 13 We depend on a limited number of personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on nine persons, namely Mr. Pierce Carson, our chairman, president and chief executive officer; Mr. Michael Martinez, our principal financial officer and treasurer; Mr. Ryan Carson, our secretary and assistant treasurer; Mr. John White, our vice president of operations; Mr. Erland Anderson, technical manager mining; Mr. Patrick Freeman, senior consultant; Mr. Dennis Dalton, Summit mine manager; Mr. Michael Duncan, Summit mine superintendent; and Mr. Curtis Floyd, vice president Lordsburg milling operations. We rely heavily on these nine individuals for the conduct of our business, and the loss of any of them could significantly and adversely affect our business. In that event, we would be forced to identify and retain a suitable replacement, which we may not be able to accomplish on terms acceptable to us. We have no life insurance on the life of any officer. Our Chief Executive Officer may face a conflict of interest relating to the acquisition of mineral properties by the Company. We have an agreement with Mr. Carson, which pre-dates his joining the Company as an officer and director, under which he identified properties that constitute potential acquisition targets. Although Mr. Carson has no pre-existing interest in the targeted properties, under the agreement he stands to gain if we acquire an identified property and either place it into production or sell it. This arrangement gives rise to potential conflicts of interest with regard to whether or not we should acquire a targeted property and the price we agree to pay for the property. While we have sought to mitigate the risk inherent in the arrangement with Mr. Carson by careful evaluation by the Board of Directors of any proposed transaction, this step may not be sufficient to eliminate the risk entirely. Acquisitions of the Summit silver-gold property and Ortiz gold property are subject to the property identification agreement with Mr. Carson. Delaware law and our Articles of Incorporation may protect our directors from certain types of lawsuits. Delaware law provides that our directors will not be liable to our stockholders or to us for monetary damages for all but certain types of conduct as directors of the Company. Our Articles of Incorporation permit us to indemnify our directors and officers against all damages incurred in connection with our business to the fullest extent provided or allowed by law. The exculpation provisions may have the effect of preventing stockholders from recovering damages against our directors caused by their negligence, poor judgment or other circumstances. The indemnification provisions may require us to use our limited assets to defend our directors and officers against claims, including claims arising out of their negligence, poor judgment, or other circumstances. Risks Related to our Common Stock The sale of our common stock by selling stockholders may depress the price of our common stock due to the limited trading market that exists. Due to a number of factors, including the lack of listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange, the trading volume in our common stock has historically been limited. Trading volume over the last 3 months has averaged approximately 120,000 shares per day. As a result, the sale of a significant amount of common stock by selling shareholders may depress the price of our common stock and the price of our common stock may decline. Completion of one or more new acquisitions could result in the issuance of a significant amount of additional common stock, which may depress the trading price of our common stock. Acquisition of one or more additional mineral properties, conceptually, could result in the issuance of a significant amount of common stock. Such issuance could depress the trading price of our common stock. 14 Our stock price may be volatile and as a result you could lose all or part of your investment. In addition to volatility associated with OTC securities in general, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: changes in the worldwide prices for gold or silver; disappointing results from our exploration or development efforts; failure to meet our revenue or profit goals or operating budget; decline in demand for our common stock; downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or changes in general market conditions; technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; investor perception of our industry or our prospects; and general economic trends. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of securities generally have been highly volatile. These fluctuations commonly are unrelated to operating performance of a company and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, investors may be unable to resell their shares at a fair price. A small number of existing shareholders own a significant portion of our common stock, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. Our executive officers and directors, together with our three largest shareholders, beneficially own approximately 35% of our common stock as of the date of this report. Under our Articles of Incorporation and Delaware law, the vote of a majority of the shares outstanding is generally required to approve most shareholder action. As a result, these individuals and entities will be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes for the foreseeable future, including votes concerning the election of directors, amendments to our Articles of Incorporation or proposed mergers or other significant corporate transactions. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. We have not paid dividends on our common stock to date, and we may not be in a position to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ability to successfully develop one or more properties and generate revenue from operations. Further, our initial earnings, if any, will likely be retained to finance our growth. Any future dividends will depend upon our earnings, our then-existing financial requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 