Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain Factors affecting the Company's Performance In addition to the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of Common Stock. If any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels and demand for housing. A prolonged decline in spending for replacement floor covering products or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The floor covering industry in which the Company participates is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending and interest rate levels. The Company derives a majority of the Company’s sales from the replacement segment of the market. Therefore, economic changes that result in a prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The floor covering industry is highly dependent on construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature. Although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, a prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The construction industry has experienced significant downturns in the past, which have adversely affected suppliers to the industry. The industry could experience similar downturns in the future, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s business. The Company may be unable to pass increases in the costs of raw materials and fuel-related costs on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. The prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary with market conditions. The Company’s costs for carpet raw materials and fuel-related materials are currently higher than historical averages and may remain so indefinitely. Although the Company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material and fuel-related costs to its customers, the Company’s ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the Company’s products. There have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. During such periods of time, the Company’s profitability may be materially adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents The Company faces intense competition in the industry, which could decrease demand for the Company’s products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. The floor covering industry is highly competitive. The Company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater resources and access to capital than the Company does. Maintaining the Company’s competitive position may require substantial investments in the Company’s product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the Company’s products or force the Company to lower prices. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions. The Company has typically grown its business through acquisitions. Growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the Company after the acquisition. The Company can not give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the Company expects. The combination of an acquired company’s business with the Company’s existing businesses involves risks. The Company can not be assured that reported earnings will meet expectations because of goodwill and intangible asset impairment, increased interest costs and issuance of additional securities or incurrence of debt. The Company may also face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating the Company’s organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. These challenges may result in: • maintaining executive offices in different locations; • manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels; • conducting business from various locations; • maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and • providing different employment and compensation arrangements for employees. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, level of expenses and operating results. Failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the Company’s existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity or otherwise not perform as expected, may adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. As part of the Company’s business strategy, the Company intends to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses. Although the Company regularly evaluates acquisition opportunities, the Company may not be able successfully to identify suitable acquisition candidates; to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund acquisitions; to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses with the Company’s existing businesses; or to manage profitably acquired businesses. The Company may be unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The principal raw materials used in the Company’s manufacturing operations include nylon and polyester and polypropylene resins and fibers, which are used primarily in the Company’s carpet and rugs business; talc, 11 Table of Contents clay, nepheline syenite and various glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used exclusively in the Company’s ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used primarily in the Company’s laminate flooring business; and other materials. An extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials used in the Company’s business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials would disrupt the Company’s operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company has been, and in the future may be, subject to claims and liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could be significant. The Company’s operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. The applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. The Company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties. The nature of the Company’s operations, including the potential discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, exposes it to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. The Company could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such claims. Changes in international trade laws and in the business, political and regulatory environment in Mexico and Europe could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s manufacturing facilities in Mexico and Europe represent a significant portion of the Company’s capacity for ceramic tile and laminate flooring, respectively. In addition, as a result of the Unilin Acquisition, the Company now has more significant general operations abroad, particularly in Europe. Accordingly, an event that has a material adverse impact on either operation could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The business, regulatory and political environments in Mexico and in Europe differ from those in the United States, and the Company’s Mexican and European operations are exposed to legal, currency, tax, political, and economic risks specific to the countries in which they occur, particularly with respect to labor regulations, which tend to be more stringent in Europe and, to a lesser extent, Mexico. The Company cannot assure investors that the Company will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where the Company does business and therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or upon the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company could face increased competition as a result of the agreements under World Trade Organization (“WTO”) and the North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”). The Company is uncertain what effect reduced import duties pursuant to agreements under the WTO may have on the Company’s operations, although these reduced rates may stimulate additional competition from manufacturers that export ceramic tile to the United States. Although NAFTA lowers the tariffs imposed on the Company’s ceramic tile manufactured in Mexico and sold in the United States and will eliminate such tariffs entirely on January 1, 2008, it may also stimulate competition in the United States and Canada from manufacturers located in Mexico. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the Company’s financial periods. The results of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries reported in the local currency are translated into U.S. dollars for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for the statement of earnings accounts using the Company’s weighted average rates during the period. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do 12 Table of Contents so in the future. Although the Company has not yet experienced material losses due to foreign currency fluctuation, the Company may not be able to manage effectively the Company’s currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of the Company’s debt and results of operations and affect comparability of the Company’s results between financial periods. If the Company is unable to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to the Company’s patented laminate flooring technology and the Company’s registered trademarks, the Company’s business and prospects could be harmed. The future success and competitive position of certain of the Company’s businesses, particularly the Company’s laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in the Company’s principal product families. The Company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the United States and countries in Europe, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the Company’s employees, to protect that technology. The Company has obtained a number of patents relating to the Company’s products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the UNICLIC® family of patents, which protects Unilin’s interlocking laminate flooring panel technology. The Company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the Company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the Company’s pending patent applications will be approved. In addition, patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of the Company’s filings, could render the Company’s intellectual property less valuable. Furthermore, despite the Company’s efforts, the Company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the Company’s technology without the Company’s authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the Company or designing around the Company’s patents. The use of the Company’s technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the Company has developed, cause the Company to lose sales or otherwise harm the Company’s business. In addition, if the Company does not obtain sufficient protection for the Company’s intellectual property, the Company’s competitiveness in the markets it serves could be significantly impaired, which would limit the Company’s growth and future revenue. The Company has obtained and applied for numerous U.S. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. The Company cannot guarantee that any of the Company’s pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge the registrations. A failure to obtain trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries could limit the Company’s ability to protect the Company’s trademarks and impede the Company’s marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. The Company requires third parties with access to the Company’s trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. While such measures are intended to protect the Company’s trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the Company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the Company’s confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. In any of these circumstances, the Company’s competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the Company’s growth and future revenue. Companies may claim that the Company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the Company’s products. In the past the Company has had companies claim that certain technologies incorporated in the Company’s products infringe their patent rights. There can be no assurance that the Company will not receive notices in the 13 Table of Contents future from parties asserting that the Company’s products infringe, or may infringe, those parties’ intellectual property rights. The Company cannot be certain that the Company’s products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Historically, patent applications in the United States and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued (or, in some recent cases, until 18 months following submission), and the Company may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to the Company’s products or processes. If patents are later issued on these applications, the Company may be liable for infringement. Furthermore, the Company may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of the Company’s proprietary rights or to establish the invalidity, noninfringement, or unenforceability of the proprietary rights of others. Likewise, the Company may have similar claims brought against it by competitors. Litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to the Company and divert the efforts of the Company’s technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in the Company’s favor. In the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, the Company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorneys fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. There can be no assurance that licenses to disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. In the event of a successful claim against the Company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The Company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance. The Company’s stock is publicly traded. As a result, the Company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and NYSE, have in recent years issued new requirements and regulations, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. From time to time since the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, these authorities have continued to develop additional regulations or interpretations of existing regulations. The Company’s efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Forward-Looking Information Certain of the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, proposed acquisitions, and similar matters, and those that include the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “forecast,” “estimates” or similar expressions constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. For those statements, Mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. The following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in industry conditions; competition; raw material prices; energy costs; timing and level of capital expenditures; integration of acquisitions; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; litigation; and other risks identified in Mohawk's SEC reports and public announcements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 14 Table of Contents 