ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The pipe industry and our business are heavily dependent on the price and trend of resin, our main raw material. Our gross margin percentage is sensitive to raw material resin prices and the demand for PVC and PE pipe. Historically, when resin prices are rising or stable, our margins and sales volume have been higher. Conversely, when resin prices are falling, our sales volumes and margins have been lower. PVC resin prices increased $0.03 per pound during the first quarter of 2005, then decreased $0.01 per pound in both June and July. In response to hurricane-related supply disruptions and increasing energy and raw material costs, PVC resin producers implemented increases of $0.02 per pound in September 2005 and $0.12 per pound in October 2005. In December 2005, PVC resin prices decreased $0.02 per pound. In January 2006, PVC resin prices were unchanged, then decreased $0.015 per pound in February, 2006. Our gross margins decrease when the supply of resin and pipe is greater than demand. Conversely, our gross margins improve when resin and pipe are in short supply. In April 2001, a major producer of PVC resin filed for bankruptcy and, during the first quarter of 2002 ceased operations at two manufacturing facilities. This resulted in a reduction of approximately 1.0 billion pounds of production capacity, or 5% of the North American industry capacity. Although two PVC producers have subsequently purchased these two facilities, only one of them has re-started a portion of its capacity in 2005. In December 2004, a major PVC producer announced plans to build a PVC plant with annual capacity of 1.3 billion pounds together with integrated production of chlorine and vinyl 5 chloride monomer (VCM), with completion expected by 2007 for the first phase and by 2008 for the second phase. During 2005, two other PVC producers announced smaller expansions of existing facilities which are expected to be completed in 2007. If these capacity increases result in industry capacity exceeding demand when they begin production, it could result in decreasing prices for PVC resin and negatively impact our gross margins. In addition, we believe the production of PVC resin may be limited by the availability of chlorine, a major raw material component. The demand for our products is directly affected by the growth and contraction of the Gross Domestic Product and economic conditions. Due to the commodity nature of resin, pipe and the dynamic supply and demand factors worldwide, the markets for both resin and pipe have historically been very cyclical with significant fluctuations in prices and gross margins. Generally, after a period of rising or stable resin prices, capacity has increased to exceed demand with a resulting decrease in prices and gross margins. Over the last ten years, there have been consolidations in both markets, particularly with respect to PVC resin manufacturers. During the same period, the capacity of PVC resin producers has increased from just over 9 billion pounds to over 18 billion pounds today. In the last ten years published PVC resin prices have fluctuated between approximately $0.25 and $0.70 per pound. Since peaking in October 2005, PVC resin prices have decreased $0.035 per pound. We believe the main drivers of industry performance are U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) growth and supply and demand of PVC resin. Historically, our profitability has improved during periods of strong GDP growth and decreased during periods of slower growth or recession. GDP growth improved in the first nine months of 2005 compared to 2004 and 2003, demand for PVC resin for use in pipe was strong, and our margins increased. And although GDP growth slowed somewhat in the fourth quarter of 2005, the effect of hurricanes Katrina and Rita contributed to a continuing increase in demand and selling prices. Additionally, because our products are used in both new residential and commercial construction and replacement and upgrade projects, a significant or prolonged decrease in the level of construction activity in the U.S. could lead to decreased demand for PVC and PE pipe, and result in lower prices and margins. While we expect the demand for PVC and PE pipe to continue to increase over the long term, we also expect that the industry will continue to be subject to cyclical fluctuations and times when supply will exceed demand, driving prices and margins down. These conditions could result from a general economic slowdown either domestically or elsewhere in the world or capacity increases in either the resin or pipe markets. General economic conditions both in the United States and abroad will continue to have a significant impact on our prices and gross margins. We are dependent on suppliers of our raw materials. Our production or reputation could be seriously harmed if these suppliers were unable to timely meet our requirements on a cost effective basis. Our PVC and PE products contain raw materials that are procured from a variety of suppliers. The cost, quality and availability of these raw materials, chief among them PVC and PE resin, are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. There are a limited number of suppliers for some of these raw materials. Alternative sources are not always available or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. For example, there are currently only five suppliers of PVC resin and four suppliers of PE resin in North America who are capable of providing us the material in an amount that would meet our requirements on terms acceptable to us. We believe our relationships with our raw materials suppliers are good and currently have long-term agreements in place with several of our key suppliers. However, if our suppliers were unable or unwilling to meet our demand for raw materials on terms acceptable to us and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price for an alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products will be seriously harmed. In September and October of 2005, all five PVC resin suppliers and all four PE resin suppliers declared force majeure due to the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and due to an accident at one resin manufacturing facility. While we have been able to secure sufficient amounts of raw material to maintain our operations at reasonable levels, any further supply disruptions could further challenge our ability to utilize our manufacturing 6 capacity. During late fourth quarter of 2005 and early first quarter of 2006, resin suppliers have been able to increase production to levels such that there are no longer supply limitations. If similar disruptions in our raw material supply occur in the future, we may be unable to effectively utilize our manufacturing capacity. A significant portion of our business and the demand for our products is seasonal in nature and any adverse weather conditions that result in a slowdown in the construction industry may adversely affect demand for our products. Our products are used in new residential and commercial construction. Because of this, the demand for these products tends to be seasonal to correspond with increased construction activity in the late spring, summer, and early fall. Any significant or prolonged adverse weather conditions that negatively affect the construction industry or slow the growth of new construction activity may negatively affect our operating results. Our operating results are dependent on the price of resin and any competitive pressure in the resin industry that increases supply or decreases the price of resin may negatively affect our profitability. The primary raw material used in most of our products is PVC resin. Generally, in periods of strong demand and limited supply of PVC resin, prices of resin tend to increase. Conversely, PVC resin prices tend to decrease when demand is weak and there is excess supply. Historically, in response to increasing resin prices, we have been able to increase the price of our products at a greater rate, resulting in better margins. During periods of decreasing resin prices, our selling prices have tended to decrease faster than our raw material costs, resulting in lower margins. In the event of a significant increase in PVC resin capacity or a significant decrease in the demand for PVC resin, resulting in a period where there is an excess supply of PVC resin, our margins and profitability could be negatively impacted. 