ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. The pipe industry and our business are heavily dependent on the price and trend of resin, our main raw material. Our gross margin percentage is sensitive to raw material resin prices and the demand for PVC and PE pipe. Historically, when resin prices are rising or stable, our margins and sales volume have been higher. Conversely, when resin prices are falling, our sales volumes and margins have been lower. In response to hurricane-related supply disruptions and increasing energy and raw material costs, PVC resin producers implemented increases in September and October 2005. Starting in December 2005, and continuing through the first few months of 2006, PVC resin prices decreased, stabilized during the second quarter, and increased in the third quarter. PVC resin prices decreased significantly in the fourth quarter of 2006 in response to lower demand and decreasing raw material costs. Our gross margins decrease when the supply of resin and pipe is greater than demand. Conversely, our gross margins improve when resin and pipe are in short supply. In April 2001, a major producer of PVC resin filed for bankruptcy and, during the first quarter of 2002 ceased operations at two manufacturing facilities. This resulted in a reduction of approximately 1.0 billion pounds of production capacity, or 5% of the North American industry capacity. Although two PVC producers have subsequently purchased these two facilities, only one of them has re-started a portion of its capacity. In December 2004, a major PVC producer announced plans to build a PVC plant with annual capacity of 1.3 billion pounds together with integrated production of chlorine and vinyl chloride monomer (VCM), with completion expected in late 2007 for the first phase and 2008 for the second phase. During 2005, two other PVC producers announced smaller expansions of existing facilities which are expected to be completed in 2007. If these capacity increases result in industry capacity exceeding demand when they begin production, it could result in decreasing prices for PVC resin and negatively impact our gross margins. The demand for our products is directly affected by the growth and contraction of the Gross Domestic Product and economic conditions. 5 Table of Contents Due to the commodity nature of resin, pipe and the dynamic supply and demand factors worldwide, the markets for both resin and pipe have historically been very cyclical with significant fluctuations in prices and gross margins. Generally, after a period of rising or stable resin prices, capacity has increased to exceed demand with a resulting decrease in prices and gross margins. Over the last ten years, there have been consolidations in both markets, particularly with respect to PVC resin manufacturers. During the same period, the capacity of PVC resin producers has increased from just over 9 billion pounds to over 18 billion pounds today. In the last ten years published PVC resin prices have fluctuated between approximately $0.24 and $0.67 per pound. Since peaking in October 2005, published PVC resin prices have decreased approximately $0.13 per pound. We believe the main drivers of industry performance are U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth and supply and demand of PVC resin. Historically, our profitability has improved during periods of strong GDP growth and decreased during periods of slower growth or recession. The hurricane-related supply and demand imbalances experienced during the fourth quarter of 2005 resulted in very strong margins which continued through the first three quarters of 2006. By the fourth quarter of 2006, there was more than sufficient resin supply compared to demand which resulted in a significant reduction in margins compared to the first three quarters of 2006. Additionally, because our products are used in both new residential and commercial construction and replacement and upgrade projects, a significant or prolonged decrease in the level of construction activity in the U.S. could lead to decreased demand for PVC and PE pipe, and result in lower prices and margins. While we expect the demand for PVC and PE pipe to continue to increase over the long term, we also expect that the industry will continue to be subject to cyclical fluctuations and times when supply will exceed demand, driving prices and margins down. These conditions could result from a general economic slowdown either domestically or elsewhere in the world or capacity increases in either the resin or pipe markets. General economic conditions both in the United States and abroad will continue to have a significant impact on our prices and gross margins. We are substantially dependent on one supplier of PVC resin, our primary raw material. Our business and operating results could be seriously harmed if this supplier were unable to timely meet our requirements on a cost effective basis. Additionally, certain terms of our agreement with this supplier limit our business and operating flexibility. Our key raw materials, PE and PVC resin, are procured primarily from three suppliers. The cost, quality and availability of these raw materials, chief among them PVC resin, are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. There are a limited number of suppliers of PVC resin. Alternative sources are not always available or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. For example, there are currently only five suppliers of PVC resin in North America who are capable of providing us the material in an amount that would meet our requirements on terms acceptable to us. We have a long-term agreement in place with one PVC resin supplier and thus are substantially dependent upon our relationship with that supplier, which we believe to be good. However, if our supplier experienced a natural disaster, a serious incident at a major production facility that limited production of PVC resin, or experienced any other event that resulted in a significant and extended limitation on its ability to provide us with PVC resin or was unwilling to meet our demand for PVC resin on terms acceptable to us and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price for an alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products will be seriously harmed. In September and October of 2005, all five PVC resin suppliers in North America declared force majeure due to the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and due to an accident at one resin manufacturing facility. Despite this situation, we were able to secure sufficient amounts of raw material to maintain our operations at reasonable levels, primarily because of our agreement with our PVC supplier. Since early in first quarter of 2006, resin suppliers were able to increase production to levels such that there are no longer supply limitations. However, if similar disruptions in our raw material supply occur in the future, we may be unable to effectively utilize our manufacturing capacity. The terms of our long-term agreement with our PVC supplier provide, among other things, for the extension of the agreement at the supplier’s option through 2013, certain termination rights exercisable by the supplier without corresponding rights for us, a right of first negotiation with the supplier on the sale of the assets of one or more of our facilities that utilize PVC resin, and the supplier’s option to require a buyer of all or a substantial portion of our assets to assume the agreement. These provisions may have the effect of limiting our ability to replace the supplier, procure PVC resin under more favorable terms or divest of our assets. A significant portion of our business and the demand for our products is seasonal in nature and any adverse weather conditions that result in a slowdown in the construction industry may adversely affect demand for our products. Our products are used in new residential and commercial construction. Because of this, the demand for these products tends to be seasonal to correspond with increased construction activity in the late spring, summer, and early fall. Any significant or prolonged adverse weather conditions that negatively affect the construction industry or slow the growth of new construction activity may negatively affect our operating results. 6 Table of Contents Our operating results are dependent on the price of resin and any competitive pressure in the resin industry that increases supply or decreases the price of resin may negatively affect our profitability. The primary raw material used in most of our products is PVC resin. Generally, in periods of strong demand and limited supply of PVC resin, prices of resin tend to increase. Conversely, PVC resin prices tend to decrease when demand is weak and there is excess supply. Historically, in response to increasing resin prices, we have been able to increase the price of our products at a greater rate, resulting in better margins. During periods of decreasing resin prices, our selling prices have tended to decrease faster than our raw material costs, resulting in lower margins. In the event of a significant increase in PVC resin capacity or a significant decrease in the demand for PVC resin, resulting in a period where there is an excess supply of PVC resin, our margins and profitability could be negatively impacted. The proposed merger with JMM is subject to conditions to closing, including the receipt of the required approval by our shareholders and regulatory approvals, which could result in the merger being delayed or not consummated, and could negatively impact our business, stock price, financial condition and operations. The proposed merger with JMM is subject to conditions to closing as set forth in the merger agreement, including obtaining the required approval from our shareholders and obtaining all proper regulatory approvals. If any of the conditions to the merger is not satisfied or, where permissible, not waived, the merger will not be consummated. The delay or failure to consummate the merger could negatively impact our business, stock price, and financial condition. Our failure to consummate the merger may negatively impact our future business, growth, revenue, and results of operations and our ability to attract any future potential acquirer. We are required to file a notification form with the United States Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission to determine whether the merger with JMM complies with applicable antitrust laws. We may not complete the merger until the expiration of a waiting period that follows the filing of the notification form. There is a risk that this regulatory approval may not be obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated. If such regulatory approval is not obtained or delayed, or if such regulatory approval is subject to conditions that we do not currently anticipate, the merger may not happen or at best it will be delayed. Such delay or the failure to consummate the merger may have an adverse effect on our current, and if the merger is not consummated, our future, business, stock price, financial condition and results of operations. The uncertain effects of the pendency of the proposed merger with JMM may negatively impact our business relationships, operating results and business generally, including our ability to retain key employees, suppliers and customers during the pendency of the merger. Because the merger with JMM is subject to various closing conditions, uncertainty exists regarding the completion of such merger. This uncertainty may cause employees, suppliers and customers to delay or defer decisions concerning us, or elect to switch to other companies or suppliers prior to the merger, which could negatively affect our business and our results of operations. Some customers may seek alternative sources for products and services pending the completion of the merger due to, among other reasons, a desire not to do business with the combined company or perceived concerns that the combined company may not continue to maintain the same quality, or support and develop such products and services in the same manner, as we do. In addition, if the merger does not occur for any reason, our relationships with our current customers and suppliers may be adversely affected. Some of our employees may choose not to continue with us during the pendency of the merger due to a perception of uncertainty about the merger, their job security and the surviving company. While the terms of the merger agreement allow us to consider unsolicited alternative proposals under certain circumstances, they prohibit solicitation of other proposals by us. Certain provisions included in the merger agreement make it difficult for us to sell our business to a party other than JMM. These provisions include the general prohibition on us from soliciting any acquisition proposal or offer for a competing transaction, and a requirement that we pay a termination fee equal to 3% of the aggregate merger consideration and the reasonable and documented out of pocket expenses of JMM in connection with the merger, not exceeding $2,500,000, if the merger agreement is terminated in specified circumstances. These provisions might discourage a third party with an interest 7 Table of Contents in acquiring us from considering or proposing an acquisition, including a proposal that might be more advantageous to our shareholders when compared to the terms and conditions of the pending merger with JMM. Furthermore, the termination fee may result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire us than it might otherwise have proposed to pay our shareholders. There is the potential that because of certain covenants we agreed to in the merger agreement that restrict the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the merger, there could be an adverse effect on our business, properties and operations. Pursuant to the merger agreement, prior to the consummation of the merger with JMM, we have made certain covenants that restrict our business. These prohibitions include, but are not limited to, (i) merging or consolidating with any company other than JMM, (ii) acquiring any company, (iii) issuing, selling, pledging, disposing of, transferring or encumbering any of our shares of common stock, (iv) paying any dividends, (v) creating or incurring any lien on our assets, (vi) making any loan, advancing any money or making a capital contribution in excess of $50,000, (vii) incurring any indebtedness for borrowed money other than in the ordinary course of business not to exceed $500,000, (viii) except as disclosed in the merger agreement, making or authorizing any capital expenditure and (ix) entering into any material contract. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business pending the merger, by limiting our ability to take advantage of a financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunity. The financing contemplated by JMM for the consummation of the merger might not be obtained. JMM currently has commitments from lenders to finance the merger, but these commitments may change prior to the consummation of the merger. If any of these commitments fall through, JMM will look for other acceptable alternative commitments. This may cause a delay in the consummation of the merger, which may have a negative effect on our business, stock price, financial condition and results of operations. Under the terms of the merger agreement, JMM is obligated to proceed with the merger even if it fails to obtain the necessary financing, but this may be difficult for it to do. If JMM is unable to find acceptable replacement financing, there is a chance that the merger will not be consummated. The failure to consummate the merger with JMM may have a further negative impact on our future business, stock price, customer and employee perception, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to attract any future potential acquirer. There is a chance that the occurrence of certain events, changes or other circumstances may arise that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement, including circumstances that may require us to pay a termination fee and related expenses to JMM. In the merger agreement we agreed to pay JMM a termination fee equal to 3% of the aggregate merger consideration and the reasonable and documented out of pocket expenses of JMM in connection with the merger, not exceeding $2,500,000, if our board of directors terminates the merger agreement and authorizes a competing acquisition by an entity other than JMM and in the event of certain other specified events that result in termination of the merger agreement. The termination fee could discourage other companies from trying to acquire us even if another acquisition would offer greater immediate value to our shareholders. The proposed merger with JMM may not be completed in a timely manner or at all, which may materially adversely affect our business, future prospects and the price of our common stock. If the merger with JMM is not completed, the trading price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger with JMM will be completed. In addition, our business and operations may be harmed to the extent that our customers, suppliers and others believe that we cannot effectively compete in the marketplace without the merger, or there is customer, supplier or employee uncertainty surrounding the future direction of the product and service offerings and our strategy on a stand-alone basis. In addition, any future potential acquirer would be cautious in exploring any future transaction with us. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs in connection with the merger with JMM. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial costs in connection with the merger. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of attorneys, accountants and financial advisors. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred these costs but will have received little or no benefit. 8 Table of Contents If litigation is initiated with respect to the merger with JMM, the completion of the merger may be jeopardized and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. At any time, the antitrust division of the United States Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, or another federal or state governmental authority could challenge or seek to block the merger with JMM under antitrust laws, as it deems necessary or desirable in the public interest. The antitrust law section of the office of the California attorney general has requested that we voluntarily provide that office with information regarding the proposed merger, which we are doing. We do not know what, if any, antitrust issues or concerns may be raised by this state office or what impact this may have on our ability to consummate the merger in a timely fashion. Moreover, in some jurisdictions, a competitor, customer, or other third party could initiate a private action under antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger with JMM, before or after it is completed. We cannot be sure that a challenge to the merger with JMM will not be made or that, if a challenge is made, that we will prevail. Further, if litigation is initiated relating to the merger by our shareholders, JMM’s shareholders, the parties to the merger, or other third parties, this may affect the completion of the merger. Such potential litigation may be costly and time consuming. If the merger is delayed or is not consummated, our business, stock price, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. Further, the perception arising from any such litigation may negatively impact our future business, stock price, financial condition and results of operations, if the merger is not consummated. During the pendency of the merger with JMM, our management’s attention may be diverted from our ongoing business operations, which may result in our business and results of operation being adversely affected. During the pendency of the merger, our management will be required to devote a portion of its time to help ensure that each condition necessary for the consummation of the merger with JMM is met. Our management will also be asked by JMM to help ensure that the transition of our business to JMM is done properly. The attention given to the merger may result in our management not being able to devote sufficient time to other areas of the business, especially if disputes arise between the parties or if litigation is commenced in connection with the merger. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 