D. Risk Factors We rely primarily on royalty income from one source. In October 2001, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license on one of our patented multi-focal design technologies with Bausch & Lomb Incorporated (“Bausch & Lomb”), which generates a significant portion of our net income. We collect royalties based on Bausch & Lomb’s worldwide net sales of products utilizing the design technology. There can be no assurance, however, that Bausch & Lomb will continue to sell products in the future utilizing our technology at the same levels as it currently does or at all. We rely on one supplier for our molded contact lenses and on one supplier for the raw materials used in the production of most of our soft lathe-cut contact lenses. In June 2002, we entered into a supply agreement with one of our suppliers for the manufacture of our Molded C-Vue multifocal lens, which accounts for a significant portion of our sales (approximately 57% during the 2009 fiscal year). The agreement is renewable from year to year and is terminable pursuant to customary termination clauses. Although to date the supplier has met our requirements, there can be no assurance that it will continue to meet its obligations under our agreement or as to any renewal of our supply agreement. The supplier is not under any obligation to supply products utilizing other materials or manufacturing processes, or to meet our possible future 2 Table of Contents requirements for design or material changes and enhancements. While alternate suppliers for the manufacture of specialty molded or partially molded contact lenses have been identified, should the need arise, there can be no assurance that an alternate supplier can successfully manufacture lenses to our specifications or material requirements on acceptable terms, or within the constraints of our exclusive license agreement with Bausch and Lomb. The raw materials used for the production of most of our lathe-cut soft contact lenses are purchased from Benz Research Corporation and Contamac. Over the past three years we have not experienced any interruption in the supply of our raw materials. While alternate vendors have been identified, should the need arise, there can be no assurance that an alternate supplier can provide the raw materials in accordance with our specifications or on acceptable terms. We face intense competition, and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. The market for soft contact lenses is intensely competitive and many competing products have lower prices than do ours. Our ability to increase U.S. market penetration is dependent on persuading eye care professionals to recommend our products to consumers, as well as persuading consumers of competing products to switch to our products, on the basis of quality, features and value. Our products compete with similar products offered by a number of larger companies, including Vistakon a unit of Johnson & Johnson, Ciba Vision Corporation, a division of Novartis AG, Bausch & Lomb, and Cooper Vision. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and technical resources, greater market penetration and larger manufacturing capacities and volumes. Among other things, these advantages may afford our competitors greater ability to manufacture large volumes of lenses, reduce product prices and influence customer buying decisions. We believe that certain of our competitors are expanding, or are planning to expand their manufacturing capacity, and are implementing automated manufacturing processes, in order to support anticipated increases in volume. Because many of the costs incurred in producing contact lenses are relatively fixed, a manufacturer that can increase its volume can generally reduce its per unit costs and thereby increase its flexibility to reduce prices. Our competitors could also reduce prices to increase sales volumes, so as to utilize their production capacity, or for other reasons. Price reductions by competitors could make our products less competitive, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to either match a competitor’s pricing plan or reduce our prices in response. Our ability to respond to competitive pressures by decreasing our prices without adversely affecting our gross margins and operating results will depend on our ability to decrease our costs per lens. Any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production capacity, of which there can be no assurance. Our failure to respond to competitive pressures and particularly price competition in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that certain of our competitors are planning to introduce new multifocal or other specialty lens designs in the near future. Competition from products utilizing new lens designs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our competitors have access to higher oxygen permeable silicone hydrogel materials, which we currently do not have. Silicone hydrogel lenses are gaining market acceptance in the specialty lens business and we are not yet able to manufacture and market our own competitive silicone hydrogel specialty products, which could erode our specialty lens market share and margins. Competition from products manufactured from silicone hydrogel materials may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also encounter competition from manufacturers of eyeglasses and from alternative technologies, such as surgical refractive procedures (including new refractive laser procedures such as PRK, or photo refractive keratectomy, and LASIK, or laser in situ keratomileusis). If surgical refractive procedures become increasingly accepted as an effective and safe technique for permanent vision correction, they could substantially reduce the demand for contact lenses by enabling patients to avoid the ongoing cost and inconvenience of contact lenses. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that these procedures, or other alternative technologies that may be developed in the future, will not cause a substantial decline in the number of contact lens wearers and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 3 Table of Contents We depend upon certain key management and technical personnel. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining or hiring qualified personnel. The loss of any of our senior management or other key research, clinical, regulatory, or sales and marketing personnel, particularly to competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unilens Vision Inc. is a holding company. Our only source of cash, other than from debt or equity financings, is from distributions from its subsidiaries and interest earnings of cash invested. We are a holding company with essentially no operations of our own and conduct substantially all of our business operations through one of our subsidiaries, Unilens Corp. USA. Our only significant asset is the outstanding capital stock of such subsidiary. We are wholly dependent, other than from debt or equity financings, on the cash flow of such subsidiary and dividends and distributions from such subsidiary in order to service any current and future indebtedness obligations we may have. Our common shares are traded in the U.S. only on the OTC Bulletin Board, so the liquidity of our common shares in the U.S. may be limited. Our common shares trade in Canada on the TSX Venture Exchange and in the United States on the OTC Bulletin Board. Stocks in the OTC Bulletin Board market ordinarily have much lower trading volume than in other markets, such as The NASDAQ Global, Global Selected Capital Markets. Very few market makers take interest in shares traded over-the-counter, and accordingly the markets for such shares are less orderly than is usual for NASDAQ stocks. As a result of the low trading volumes ordinarily obtained in the OTC Bulletin Board market, sales of our common shares in any significant amount could not be absorbed without a dramatic reduction in price. Moreover, thinly traded shares in the OTC Bulletin Board market are more susceptible to trading manipulations than is ordinarily the case for more actively traded shares. “Penny stock” rules may make buying or selling our common shares difficult, severely limiting the market price of our common shares and the liquidity of our shares in the U.S. Trading in our common shares is subject to the “penny stock” regulations adopted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These regulations generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules require that any broker-dealer who recommends our securities to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors, must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require delivery, prior to any transaction involving a “penny stock,” of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our stock, which could severely limit their market price and the liquidity of our stock. The price of our common shares in the U.S. and Canada continues to be highly volatile. The market price of our common shares in the U.S. and Canada is, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and may be significantly affected by factors such as: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or those of our competitors; competitive factors; trade practice litigation; new products offered by us or our competitors; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; conditions and trends in our industry and other related industries; regulatory actions; adoption of new accounting standards; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; general market conditions; and other factors. Dividends to holders of our common shares cannot be assured. The special and quarterly dividends we have paid since August 2006 are the first dividends paid by us. So far for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, the Company has paid quarterly cash dividends totaling $0.18 per common share. The amount of future dividends will depend on earnings, cash flow, and other aspects of our business as determined and declared by the Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that we can generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to continue paying quarterly dividends. 4 Table of Contents Our manufacturing facility located in the U.S. and our products sold in the U.S. are subject to stringent regulation by the Food and Drug Administration. Under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDC Act”) and implementing regulations, the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) regulates the testing, manufacturing, labeling, distribution, and promotion of medical devices such as contact lenses. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of product distribution, failure of the government to grant premarket clearance or approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals, and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to request the recall, repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device manufactured or distributed by us. Before a new device can be introduced into the U.S. market, it must receive FDA premarket notification clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDC Act (“Section 510(k)”) or premarket approval pursuant to the more costly and time-consuming premarket approval application (“PMA”) procedure. For devices that are cleared through the Section 510(k) process, modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, will require new Section 510(k) submissions. While less expensive and time-consuming than obtaining PMA clearance, securing Section 510(k) clearance may involve the submission of a substantive review of six months or more. Any products manufactured or distributed pursuant to Section 510(k) clearance are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including record keeping requirements and reporting of adverse experience with the use of the device. We are seeking Section 510(k) clearances for all of the new products we intend to manufacture and market in the U.S. New products may require clinical studies to support a Section 510(k) clearance or PMA. There is no certainty that clinical studies involving new products will be completed in a timely manner or that the data and information obtained will be sufficient to support the filing of a PMA or Section 510(k) clearance. We may not be able to obtain necessary clearances and approvals to market new devices or any other products under development on a timely basis, if at all, and delays in receipt or failure to receive such clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a manufacturer of medical devices, we are required to register with the FDA and comply with the FDA’s Code of Federal Regulations quality system requirements. If the FDA believes that we may not be operating in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, it can record its observations on a Form FDA 483; place us under observation and re-inspect the facilities; institute proceedings to issue a warning letter apprising of violative conduct; detain or seize products; mandate a recall; enjoin future violations; and assess civil and criminal penalties against us, our officers or our employees. In addition, in appropriate circumstances, the FDA could withdraw clearances or approvals. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements or any adverse regulatory action could have a material adverse affect on us. Manufacturers of medical devices for marketing in the U.S. also must comply with the medical device reporting (“MDR”) requirements of the FDA, that require companies report to the FDA any incident in which its product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which its product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, it would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Labeling and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA. Current FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. We are subject to routine inspection by the FDA for compliance with quality systems requirements, MDR requirements, and other applicable regulations. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs to comply with laws and regulations in the future or that laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operation. Our products are subject to stringent regulation by various foreign jurisdictions in which our products are sold. Our products also are subject to regulation in other countries in which we sell our products. The laws and regulations of such countries range from comprehensive medical device approval procedures such as those described above to simple requests for product data or certifications. The number and scope of these laws and regulations are increasing. In particular, medical devices in the European Union (the “EU”) are subject to the EU’s medical devices directive (the “Directive”). 5 Table of Contents Under the system established by the Directive, all medical devices other than active implants and in vitro diagnostic products currently must qualify for “CE marking.” “CE marking” means that a manufacturer certifies that its product bearing the CE mark satisfies all requirements essential for the product to be considered safe and fit for its intended purpose. We have received CE marking authorization for all products that we currently market in the EU. In addition, medical device sales in the EU require auditing by a certified third party (a “Notified Body”) to ensure that the manufacturer’s quality systems are in compliance with the requirements of the ISO 9000 standards. Although member countries must accept for marketing medical devices bearing a CE marking without imposing further requirements related to product safety and performance, each country may require the use of its own language or labels and instructions for use. Authorities who are required to enforce compliance with the requirements of the Directive can restrict, prohibit and recall CE-marked products if they are unsafe. Such a decision must be confirmed by the European Commission in order to be valid. Member countries can impose additional requirements as long as they do not violate the Directive or constitute technical barriers to trade. Additional approvals from foreign regulatory authorities may be required for international sale of our products in non-EU countries. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in the loss of previously received approvals and other sanctions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the products we manufacture or sell results in personal injury. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the products we manufacture and/or sell results in personal injury. Although we have not experienced any losses due to product liability claims, we cannot assure you that we will not experience such losses in the future. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but we cannot be certain that such coverage will be adequate to cover any liabilities that we may incur, or that such insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could harm our business. All of our manufacturing operations are conducted at a single facility. We conduct all of our manufacturing operations at a single facility in Largo, Florida. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facility, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to the facility or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In this regard, because our principal manufacturing facility is located in Largo, Florida, such facility is exposed to the risks of damage from certain weather conditions including, without limitation: hurricanes, windstorms, and floods. If our facility were to be out of production for an extended period, our business, financial condition and results of operation would be materially adversely affected. Our manufacturing capacity may not be adequate to meet the demands of our business. Our products are manufactured in quantities sufficient to satisfy our current level of product sales. If we experience increases in sales, we will need to increase our production beyond our present manufacturing capacity. The process for transferring the manufacture of our products to new facilities is lengthy and requires regulatory approval, and our manufacturing and related costs could increase as a result of the transaction. Any prolonged disruption in the operation of our manufacturing facilities or those of our third-party manufacturers, or any significant increase in associated costs, could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent upon the proprietary nature of the designs, processes, technologies and materials owned by, used by or licensed to us. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary property, technologies and processes both in the U.S. and in foreign countries through a combination of patent law, trade 6 Table of Contents secrets and non-disclosure agreements, these may be insufficient. In addition, because of the differences in foreign patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our products may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the U.S. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the eye care industry, and in the contact lens markets particularly. The fact that we have patents issued to us for our products does not mean that we will always be able to successfully defend our patents and proprietary rights against challenges or claims of infringement by our competitors. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. We cannot assure you that others will not claim that our proprietary or licensed products are infringing their intellectual property rights or that we would not in fact be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive notices of claim of potential infringement. There may be intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology and of which we are unaware. If someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, selling or using some or some aspect of our products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. If we do not introduce new commercially successful products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. Demand for our products may change in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical practices; and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new commercially successful products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including without limitation our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors’ offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for lower-cost products; and innovate and develop new materials and product designs. Moreover, innovations generally will require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine the commercial viability of these innovations, and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund these innovations. In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, they may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. 