Item 1A. Risk Factors We caution you that our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors listed below could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from projections in forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K, in our other filings with the SEC, in our news releases and in public statements made orally by our representatives. Risks Related to Our Business Our financial condition depends on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to operate restaurants profitably, to generate positive cash flows and to generate acceptable returns on invested capital. The returns and profitability of our restaurants may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including those described below. Food service businesses are often adversely affected by changes in: • consumer tastes; • consumer spending habits; • global, national, regional and local economic conditions; and • demographic trends. 5 The performance of our individual restaurants may be adversely affected by factors such as: • traffic patterns; • demographic considerations; and • the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Multi-unit food service chains such as ours can also be adversely affected by publicity resulting from: • poor food quality; • food-related illness; • injury; and • other health concerns or operating issues. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and groceries subjects food service businesses to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, the food service industry in general, and our results of operations and financial condition in particular, may also be adversely affected by unfavorable trends or developments such as: • inflation; • increased food costs; • increased energy costs; • labor and employee benefits costs (including increases in minimum hourly wage, employment tax rates and health care costs and workers’ compensation costs); • regional weather conditions; and • the availability of experienced management and hourly employees. We are evaluating the comprehensive U.S. health care reform law that was enacted in 2010 to determine the impact on our business. We plan to comply with various parts of the law as they take effect. Although we cannot predict with certainty the financial and operational impacts the new law will have on us and our franchisees, we expect that our expenses will increase over the long term as a result of the law, particularly in 2014, and any such increases could be large enough to materially impact our results of operations. A decline in general economic conditions could adversely affect our financial results. Consumer spending habits, including discretionary spending on dining out at restaurants such as ours, are affected by many factors, including: • prevailing economic conditions; • energy costs, especially gasoline prices; • levels of employment; • salaries and wage rates; • consumer confidence; and • consumer perception of economic conditions. Continued weakness or uncertainty of the United States economy, as a result of reactions to consumer credit availability, increasing energy prices, inflation, increasing interest rates, unemployment, war, terrorist activity or other unforeseen events could adversely affect consumer spending habits, which may result in lower restaurant sales. The locations where we have restaurants may cease to be attractive as demographic patterns change. The success of our owned and franchised restaurants is significantly influenced by location. Current locations may not continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. It is possible that the neighborhood or economic conditions where our restaurants are located could decline in the future, potentially resulting in reduced sales at those locations. A majority of Denny's restaurants are owned and operated by independent franchisees, and as a result the financial performance of franchisees can negatively impact our business. As we are heavily franchised, our financial results are contingent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. We receive royalties, contributions to advertising and, in some cases, lease payments from our franchisees. We have established operational standards, guidelines and strategic plans for our franchisees; however, we have limited control over how our franchisees’ businesses are run. While we are responsible for ensuring the success of our entire chain of restaurants and for taking a longer term view with respect to system improvements, our franchisees have individual business strategies and objectives, which might conflict with our interests. Our franchisees may not be able to secure adequate financing to open or continue operating their Denny’s restaurants. If they incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress or even bankruptcy. If a significant number of franchisees become financially distressed, it could harm our operating results through reduced royalties and lease income. For 2011, our ten largest franchisees accounted for 34% of our franchise revenue. The balance of our franchise revenue is derived from the remaining 255 franchisees. Although the loss of revenues from the closure of any one franchise restaurant may not be material, such revenues generate margins that may exceed those generated by other restaurants or offset fixed costs which we continue to incur. 6 We have guaranteed certain franchisee lease payments and loan payments in relation to the Pilot Flying J locations. These guarantees include up to $2.0 million of lease payments and $1.7 million in loan payments. In December 2011, we announced a new loan program to support domestic growth. This program will provide up to $100 million in loans to new and existing franchisees that open new restaurants in under-penetrated markets. We will guarantee up to the lesser of $12 million or 12% of the total outstanding loans under the program. As of December 28, 2011, there were no loans outstanding under this program. Under either of the programs, if franchisees are not able to fund required payments when due, we could be required to make payments up to amounts guaranteed. Our growth strategy depends on our ability and that of our franchisees to open new restaurants. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could adversely affect our planned growth. The development of new restaurants may be adversely affected by risks such as: • costs and availability of capital for the Company and/or franchisees; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of favorable purchase or lease terms for restaurant sites; • inability to obtain all required governmental approvals and permits; • developed restaurants not achieving the expected revenue or cash flow; and • general economic conditions. The restaurant business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. Each of our restaurants competes with a wide variety of restaurants ranging from national and regional restaurant chains to locally owned restaurants. We expect competition to continue to increase. The following are important aspects of competition: • restaurant location; • advantageous commercial real estate suitable for restaurants • number and location of competing restaurants; • food quality and value; • training, courtesy and hospitality standards; • availability of and quality of staff; • dietary trends, including nutritional content; • quality and speed of service; • attractiveness and repair and maintenance of facilities; and • the effectiveness of marketing and advertising programs. Many factors, including those over which we have no control, affect the trading price of our stock. Factors such as reports on the economy or the price of commodities, as well as negative or positive announcements by competitors, regardless of whether the report directly relates to our business, could have an impact of the trading price of our stock. In addition to investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity in our stock can reflect the portfolio strategies and investment allocation changes of institutional holders, as well as non-operating initiatives such as our share repurchase program. Any failure to meet market expectations whether for sales growth rates, refranchising goals, earnings per share or other metrics could cause our share price to decline. Our reputation and business could be materially harmed as a result of the failure to protect the integrity and security of guest information or our employees' personal data. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and our employees. Our use of this information is regulated at the federal and state levels, as well as by certain third-party contracts. If our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as operations, results of operations and financial condition, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. Numerous government regulations impact our business, and our failure to comply with them could adversely affect our business. We and our franchisees are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things: • health; • sanitation; • land use, sign restrictions and environmental matters; • safety; • the sale of alcoholic beverages; and • hiring and employment practices, including minimum wage laws and fair labor standards. Our restaurant operations are also subject to federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination and laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. The operation of our franchisee system is also subject to regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission. If we or our franchisees fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we or our franchisees could be subjected to restaurant closure, fines, penalties and litigation, which may be costly and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the future enactment of additional legislation regulating the franchise relationship could adversely affect our operations. 7 Negative publicity generated by incidents at a few restaurants can adversely affect the operating results of our entire chain and the Denny’s brand. Food safety concerns, criminal activity, alleged discrimination or other operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants do not just impact that particular restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. Rather, our entire chain of restaurants may be at risk from the negative publicity generated by an incident at a single restaurant. This negative publicity can adversely affect the operating results of our entire chain and the Denny’s brand. If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers and key team members, particularly regional and area managers and restaurant general managers. Competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or key team members or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could harm our business. If our internal controls are ineffective, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We maintain a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and tested by the Company’s full time Internal Audit Department. The Internal Audit Department reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe we have a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal controls on the business; however, we cannot be certain that our controls will be adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing errors or fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have an adverse effect on our operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. Risks Related to our Indebtedness Our indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. As of December 28, 2011, we had total indebtedness of $220.6 million, including capital leases. We continually monitor our cash flow and liquidity needs. Although we believe that our existing cash balances, funds from operations and amounts available under our credit facility will be adequate to cover those needs, we could seek additional sources of funds, including incurring additional debt and selling selected assets, to maintain sufficient cash flow to fund our ongoing operating needs, pay interest and scheduled debt amortization and fund anticipated capital expenditures over the next twelve months. There are no material debt maturities until September 2015. If we are unable to satisfy or refinance our current debt as it comes due, we may default on our debt obligations. For additional information concerning our indebtedness see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." Our debt instruments include restrictive covenants. These covenants may restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter a variety of transactions. A breach of these covenants could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. The credit agreement governing our indebtedness contains various covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends, purchase shares of Common Stock or make distributions or certain other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • create dividend or other payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • guarantee indebtedness; • enter into transactions with stockholders or affiliates; • create liens; • sell assets and use the proceeds thereof; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; and • enter into certain mergers and consolidations. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger, acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. If we incur additional debt in the future, covenant limitations on our activities (and risks associated with such increased debt levels generally) could increase. Our credit agreement contains additional restrictive covenants, including financial maintenance requirements. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, such as uncertainties related to the current economy, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these covenants. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under any other debt instruments. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt instruments, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot be sure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness. 8 As a holding company, Denny’s Corporation depends on upstream payments from its operating subsidiaries. Accordingly, its ability to pay its obligations and to make any distributions to its shareholders depends on the performance of those subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions to Denny’s Corporation. A substantial portion of our assets are owned, and a substantial percentage of our total operating revenues are earned, by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, Denny’s Corporation depends upon dividends, loans and other intercompany transfers from these subsidiaries to meet its obligations. These transfers may be subject to contractual and other restrictions. The subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and they have no obligation to Denny's Corporation, contingent or otherwise (other than under the credit facility with respect to which Denny’s Corporation is a guarantor and certain of its subsidiaries are borrowers), to make any funds available to meet its obligations, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. If the subsidiaries do not pay dividends or other distributions, Denny’s Corporation may not have sufficient cash to fulfill its obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our subsidiaries’ operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our historical financial results have been, and our future financial results are expected to be, subject to substantial fluctuations. We cannot be sure that our subsidiaries will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to service or reduce our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, our subsidiaries may need to refinance all or a portion of their indebtedness on or before maturity or seek additional equity capital. We cannot be sure that they will be able to pay or refinance our indebtedness or that we will be able to obtain additional equity capital on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, especially in a difficult economic environment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 