Item 1A. Risk Factors We caution you that our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The occurrence of any of the events discussed in the following risk factors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which may materially and adversely affect the value of our shares of common stock. It is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations.A decline in general economic conditions could adversely affect our financial results. Consumer spending habits, including discretionary spending on dining at restaurants such as ours, are affected by many factors including: •prevailing economic conditions, including interest rates;•energy costs, especially gasoline prices;•levels of employment;•salaries and wage rates, including tax rates;•consumer confidence; and•consumer perception of economic conditions.Weakness or uncertainty regarding the United States economy, as a result of reactions to consumer credit availability, increasing energy prices, inflation, increasing interest rates, unemployment, war, terrorist activity or other unforeseen events could adversely affect consumer spending habits, which may result in lower restaurant sales.8 The restaurant business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. Each of our restaurants competes with a wide variety of restaurants ranging from national and regional restaurant chains to locally owned restaurants. We expect competition to continue to increase. The following are important aspects of competition: •restaurant location;•advantageous commercial real estate suitable for restaurants;•number and location of competing restaurants;•attractiveness and repair and maintenance of facilities;•ability to develop and support evolving technology to deliver a consistent and compelling guest experience;•food quality, new product development and value;•dietary trends, including nutritional content;•training, courtesy and hospitality standards;•ability to attract and retain high quality staff;•quality and speed of service; and•the effectiveness of marketing and advertising programs.The returns and profitability of our restaurants may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including those described below. Food service businesses are often materially and adversely affected by changes in: •consumer preferences, including nutritional and dietary concerns;•consumer spending habits;•global, national, regional and local economic conditions; and•demographic trends.The performance of our individual restaurants may be materially and adversely affected by factors such as: •traffic patterns;•demographic trends; and•the type, number and location of competing restaurants.Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and groceries subjects food service businesses to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, the food service industry in general, and our results of operations and financial condition in particular, may be adversely affected by unfavorable trends or developments such as: •inflation;•volatility in certain commodity markets;•increased food costs;•health concerns arising from food safety issues and other food-related pandemics, outbreaks of flu viruses, such as avian flu, or other diseases;•increased energy costs;•labor and employee benefits costs (including increases in minimum hourly wage, employment tax rates, health care costs and workers’ compensation costs);•regional weather conditions; and•the availability of experienced management and hourly employees.Operating results that are lower than our current estimates may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets and potentially close certain restaurants.9The financial performance of our franchisees can negatively impact our business. As we are heavily franchised, our financial results are contingent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. We receive royalties, contributions to advertising and, in some cases, lease payments from our franchisees. We have established operational standards, guidelines and strategic plans for our franchisees; however, we have limited control over how our franchisees’ businesses are run. While we are responsible for ensuring the success of our entire chain of restaurants and for taking a longer term view with respect to system improvements, our franchisees have individual business strategies and objectives, which might conflict with our interests. Our franchisees may have business interests outside of their Denny’s restaurants, making them subject to business and financial risks unrelated to the operation of our restaurants. These unrelated risks could adversely affect a franchisee's ability to make payments to us or their ability to secure adequate financing to open or continue operating their Denny’s restaurants. If they incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress or even bankruptcy. Our franchisees are impacted by the implementation of The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act. If a significant number of franchisees become financially distressed, it could harm our operating results through reduced royalties and lease income. For 2015, our ten largest franchisees accounted for 29% of our franchise revenue. The balance of our franchise revenue is derived from the remaining 256 franchisees. Although the loss of revenues from the closure of any one franchised restaurant may not be material, such revenues generate margins that may exceed those generated by other restaurants or offset fixed costs which we continue to incur.We have guarantees related to certain franchisee leases and loans. Payments under these guarantees would result from the inability of a franchisee to fund required payments when due. Through December 30, 2015, no events had occurred that caused us to make payments under the guarantees. There were $8.7 million and $9.8 million of loans outstanding under these programs as of December 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. As of December 30, 2015, the maximum amounts payable under the lease guarantee and loan guarantees were $2.0 million and $1.3 million, respectively. Our growth strategy depends on our ability and that of our franchisees to open new restaurants. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could adversely affect our planned growth. The development of new restaurants may be adversely affected by risks such as: •costs and availability of capital for the company and/or franchisees;•competition for restaurant sites;•inability to identify suitable franchisees;•negotiation of favorable purchase or lease terms for restaurant sites;•inability to obtain all required governmental approvals and permits;•delays in completion of construction;•challenge of identifying, recruiting and training qualified restaurant managers;•developed restaurants not achieving the expected revenue or cash flow; •challenges specific to the growth of international operations and nontraditional restaurants that are different from traditional domestic development; and•general economic conditions.The locations where we have restaurants may cease to be attractive as demographic patterns change. The success of our owned and franchised restaurants is significantly influenced by location. Current locations may not continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. It is possible that the neighborhood or economic conditions where our restaurants are located could decline in the future, potentially resulting in reduced sales at those locations.10Our expansion into international markets may present increased risks due to lower customer awareness of our brand, our unfamiliarity with those markets and other factors.The international markets in which our franchisees currently operate and any additional markets our franchisees may enter outside of the United States, have many differences compared to our domestic markets. There may be lower consumer familiarity with the Denny’s brand in these markets, as well as different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and economic, political and health conditions. Additionally, there are risks associated with sourcing quality ingredients and other commodities in a cost-effective and timely manner. As a result, our franchised international restaurants may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels, and may never do so, thereby affecting the brand’s overall growth and profitability. Building brand awareness may take longer than expected, which could negatively impact our profitability in those markets. We are subject to governmental regulations in our international markets impacting the way we do business with our international franchisees. These include antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export/customs and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.Failure of computer systems, information technology or cyber security could result in material harm to our reputation and business.We and our franchisees rely on computer systems and information technology to conduct our business. A material failure or interruption of service or a breach in security of our computer systems caused by malware or other attack could cause reduced efficiency in operations, loss or misappropriation of data, or business interruptions, or could impact delivery of food to restaurants or financial functions such as vendor payment or employee payroll. We have business continuity plans that attempt to anticipate and mitigate such failures, but it is possible that significant capital investment could be required to rectify these problems, or more likely that cash flows could be impacted, in the shorter term. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests, employees and franchisees. Our use of this information is regulated at the federal and state levels, as well as by certain third-party contracts. If our security and information systems are compromised and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, operations, results of operations and financial condition, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change or cyber risks evolve pertaining to this data, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. Numerous government regulations impact our business, and our failure to comply with them could adversely affect our business. We and our franchisees are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things: •preparation, labeling, advertising and sale of food;•sanitation and safety;•land use, sign restrictions and environmental matters;•employee health care requirements, including the implementation and uncertain legal, regulatory and cost implications of the health care reform law;•management and protection of the personnel data of our guests, employees and franchisees;•payment card regulation and related industry rules;•the sale of alcoholic beverages; •hiring and employment practices, including minimum wage and tip credit laws and fair labor standards; and•Americans with Disabilities Act.The operation of our franchisee system is also subject to regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission. Due to our international franchising, we are subject to governmental regulations throughout the world impacting the way we do business with our international franchisees. Additionally, given our significant concentration of restaurants in California, changes in regulations in that state could have a disproportionate impact on our operations. If we or our franchisees fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we or our franchisees could be subjected to restaurant closure, fines, penalties and litigation, which may be costly and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the future enactment of additional legislation regulating the franchise relationship could adversely affect our operations. 11We continue to evaluate the potential impacts of The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act on our business, and accommodate various parts of the law and related rules and regulations as they take effect. Because of the breadth and complexity of these laws and the phased-in nature of implementation, we cannot predict with certainty the financial and operational impacts the laws will have on us in the future. However, we expect that our expenses related to employee health benefits will increase over the long term as a result of this these laws. Any such increases could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the health care reform laws will require restaurant companies such as ours to disclose calorie information on their menus effective December 1, 2016. We early adopted this requirement during 2015 and did not incur any material costs from compliance with this provision of the law. We cannot anticipate the changes in guest behavior that could result from the implementation of this provision, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or results of operations.We are also subject to federal, state and international laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. Such laws impose registration and disclosure requirements on franchisors in the offer and sale of franchises, and may contain provisions that supersede the terms of franchise agreements, including limitations on the ability of franchisors to terminate franchises and alter franchise arrangements.Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the risk of, or are involved in from time to time, complaints or litigation brought by former, current or prospective employees, customers, franchisees, vendors, landlords, shareholders or others. We assess contingencies to determine the degree of probability and range of possible loss for potential accrual in our financial statements. An estimated loss contingency is accrued if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because lawsuits are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable resolutions could occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. However, the amount of ultimate loss may differ from these estimates. A judgment that is not covered by insurance or that is significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend, and may divert management’s attention away from operations and hurt our performance. Further, adverse publicity resulting from claims may harm our business or that of our franchisees.Food safety and quality concerns may negatively impact our business and profitability. Incidents or reports of food- or water-borne illness, or other food safety issues, food contamination or tampering, employee hygiene and cleanliness failures, improper employee conduct, or presence of communicable disease at our restaurants or suppliers could lead to product liability or other claims. Such incidents or reports could negatively affect our brand and reputation and a decrease in customer traffic resulting from these reports could negatively impact our revenues and profits. Similar incidents or reports occurring at other restaurant brands unrelated to us could likewise create negative publicity, which could negatively impact consumer behavior towards us. In addition, if a regional or global health pandemic occurs, depending upon its location, duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. We rely on our domestic and international vendors, as do our franchisees, to provide quality ingredients and to comply with applicable laws and industry standards. A failure of one of our domestic or international vendors to meet our quality standards, or meet domestic or international food industry standards, could result in a disruption in our supply chain and negatively impact our brand and our business and profitability. Our inability to manage an event such as a product recall or product related litigation could also cause our results to suffer.Negative publicity generated by incidents at a few restaurants can adversely affect the operating results of our entire chain and the Denny’s brand. Food safety concerns, health concerns, outbreaks of flu viruses (such as avian flu) or other diseases, criminal activity, alleged discrimination or other operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants do not just impact that particular restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. Rather, our entire chain of restaurants may be at risk from the negative publicity generated by an incident at a single restaurant. The increasing use of social media platforms has increased the speed and scope of adverse publicity and could hinder our ability to quickly and effectively respond to such reports. This negative publicity can adversely affect the operating results of our entire chain and the Denny’s brand. 12If we fail to recruit, develop and retain talented employees, our business could suffer. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to attract, motivate and retain these and other key officers and key team members, particularly regional and area managers and restaurant general managers. Competition for these employees is intense. If our internal controls are ineffective, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We maintain a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and tested by the company’s full time Internal Audit department. The Internal Audit department reports directly to the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock.As a holding company, Denny’s Corporation depends on upstream payments from its operating subsidiaries. Almost all of our assets are owned, and all of our operating revenues are earned, by our subsidiaries, which are also the primary obligors for substantially all of the indebtedness, obligations and liabilities related to our business. Accordingly, our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and to make any distributions to our shareholders depends on the performance of those subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions to Denny’s Corporation. Their ability to make such distributions may be subject to contractual and other restrictions. Many factors, including those over which we have no control, affect the trading price of our common stock. Factors such as reports on the economy or the price of commodities, as well as negative or positive announcements by competitors, regardless of whether the report directly relates to our business, could have an impact on the trading price of our common stock. In addition to investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity in our common stock can reflect the portfolio strategies and investment allocation changes of institutional holders, as well as non-operating initiatives such as our share repurchase programs. Any failure to meet market expectations whether for same-store sales, restaurant unit growth, earnings per share or other metrics could cause our share price to decline.Our indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. As of December 30, 2015, we had total indebtedness of $215.7 million, including capital leases. We continually monitor our cash flow and liquidity needs. Although we believe that our existing cash balances, funds from operations and amounts available under our credit facility will be adequate to cover those needs, we could seek additional sources of funds, including incurring additional debt and selling selected assets, to maintain sufficient cash flow to fund our ongoing operating needs, pay interest and scheduled debt amortization and fund anticipated capital expenditures over the next twelve months. We have no material debt maturities scheduled until March 2020. If we are unable to satisfy or refinance our current debt as it comes due, we may default on our debt obligations. For additional information concerning our indebtedness see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." 13Our debt instruments include restrictive covenants. These covenants may restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter a variety of transactions. A breach of these covenants could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. The credit agreement governing our indebtedness contains various covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness;•pay dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock or make distributions or certain other restricted payments;•make certain investments;•create dividend or other payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries;•issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries;•guarantee indebtedness;•enter into transactions with shareholders or affiliates;•create liens;•sell assets and use the proceeds thereof;•engage in sale-leaseback transactions; and•enter into certain mergers and consolidations.These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger, acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. If we incur additional debt in the future, covenant limitations on our activities (and risks associated with such increased debt levels generally) could increase.Though we currently participate in a share repurchase program, such program is subject to restrictions under our credit agreement and there can be no assurance that we will repurchase our common stock pursuant to the program. Our credit agreement contains additional restrictive covenants, including financial maintenance requirements. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, such as uncertainties related to the current economy, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these covenants.Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt instruments, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot be sure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.