Item 1A. Risk Factors We caution you that our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors listed below are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from those anticipated in forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K, in our other filings with the SEC, in our news releases and in oral statements by our representatives. However, other factors that we do not anticipate or that we do not consider significant based on currently available information may also have an adverse effect on our results. Risks Related to Our Business Our financial condition depends on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to operate restaurants profitably, to generate positive cash flows and to generate acceptable returns on invested capital. The returns and profitability of our restaurants may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including those described below. Food service businesses are often adversely affected by changes in: • consumer tastes; • consumer spending habits; • global, national, regional and local economic conditions; and • demographic trends. The performance of our individual restaurants may be adversely affected by factors such as: • traffic patterns; • demographic considerations; and • the type, number and location of competing restaurants. 4 Multi-unit food service chains such as ours can also be adversely affected by publicity resulting from: • poor food quality; • food-related illness; • injury; and • other health concerns or operating issues. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and groceries subjects food service businesses to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, the food service industry in general, and our results of operations and financial condition in particular, may also be adversely affected by unfavorable trends or developments such as: • inflation; • increased food costs; • increased energy costs; • labor and employee benefits costs (including increases in minimum hourly wage and employment tax rates and health care and workers' compensation cost); • regional weather conditions; and • the availability of experienced management and hourly employees. A decline in general economic conditions could adversely affect our financial results. Consumer spending habits, including discretionary spending on dining out at restaurants such as ours, are affected by many factors, including: • prevailing economic conditions, such as the housing and credit markets; • energy costs, especially gasoline prices; • levels of employment; • salaries and wage rates; • consumer confidence; and • consumer perception of economic conditions. Continued weakness or uncertainty of the United States economy as a result of reactions to consumer credit availability, increasing energy prices, inflation, increasing interest rates, unemployment, war, terrorist activity or other unforeseen events could adversely affect consumer spending habits, which may result in lower restaurant sales. The locations where we have restaurants may cease to be attractive as demographic patterns change. The success of our owned and franchised restaurants is significantly influenced by location. Current locations may not continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. It is possible that the neighborhood or economic conditions where our restaurants are located could decline in the future, potentially resulting in reduced sales in those locations. Our growth strategy, including the Franchise Growth Initiative and Market Growth Incentive Plan, depends on our ability and that of our franchisees to open new restaurants. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could adversely affect our planned growth. The development of new restaurants may be adversely affected by risks such as: • costs and availability of capital for the Company and/or franchisee; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of favorable purchase or lease terms for restaurant sites; • inability to obtain all required governmental approvals and permits; • developed restaurants not achieving the expected revenue or cash flow; and • general economic conditions. A majority of Denny's restaurants are owned and operated by independent franchisees, and as a result the financial performance of franchisees can negatively impact our business. We receive royalties and contributions to advertising and, in some cases, lease payments from our franchisees. Our financial results are somewhat contingent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees, including implementation of our strategic plans, as well as their ability to secure adequate financing. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for our franchisees, their financial health may worsen and our collection rates may decline. Additionally, refusal on the part of franchisees to continue their franchise agreements upon expiration may result in decreased royalties and lease income. For 2008, our ten largest franchisees accounted for approximately 32% of our franchise revenue. The balance of our franchise revenue is derived from the remaining 259 franchisees. Although the loss of revenues from the closure of any one franchise restaurant may not be material, such revenues generate margins that may exceed those generated by other restaurants or offset fixed costs which we continue to incur. The interests of franchisees, as owners of the majority of our restaurants, might sometimes conflict with our interests. For example, whereas franchisees are concerned with their individual business strategies and objectives, we are responsible for ensuring the success of our entire chain of restaurants and for taking a longer term view with respect to system improvements. 5 The restaurant business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. We expect competition to continue to increase. The following are important aspects of competition: • restaurant location; • number and location of competing restaurants; • food quality and value; • quality and speed of service; • attractiveness and repair and maintenance of facilities; and • the effectiveness of marketing and advertising programs. Each of our restaurants competes with a wide variety of restaurants ranging from national and regional restaurant chains to locally owned restaurants. There is also active competition for advantageous commercial real estate sites suitable for restaurants. Many factors, including those over which we have no control, affect the trading price of our stock. Factors such as reports on the economy or the price of commodities, as well as negative or positive announcements by competitors, regardless of whether the report relates directly to our business, could have an impact of the trading price of our stock. In addition to investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity in our stock can reflect the portfolio strategies and investment allocation changes of institutional holders and non-operating initiatives such as a share repurchase program. Any failure to meet market expectations whether for sales growth rates, refranchising goals, earnings per share or other metrics could cause our share price to decline. Numerous government regulations impact our business, and our failure to comply with them could adversely affect our business. We and our franchisees are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things: • health; • sanitation; • environmental matters; • safety; • the sale of alcoholic beverages; and • hiring and employment practices, including minimum wage laws and fair labor standards. Our restaurant operations are also subject to federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination and laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. The operation of our franchisee system is also subject to regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission. If we or our franchisees fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we or our franchisees could be subjected to restaurant closure, fines, penalties, and litigation, which may be costly and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the future enactment of additional legislation regulating the franchise relationship could adversely affect our operations, particularly our relationship with franchisees. Negative publicity generated by incidents at a few restaurants can adversely affect the operating results of our entire chain and the Denny’s brand. Food safety concerns, criminal activity, alleged discrimination or other operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants do not just impact that particular restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. Rather, our entire chain of restaurants may be at risk from negative publicity generated by an incident at a single restaurant. This negative publicity can adversely affect the operating results of our entire chain and the Denny’s brand. If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers and key team members, particularly regional and area managers and restaurant general managers. Competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or key team members or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could harm our business. If our internal controls are ineffective, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We maintain a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and tested by the Company’s full time Internal Audit Department. The Internal Audit Department reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe we have a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal controls on the business, however, we cannot be certain that our controls will be adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing errors or fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have an adverse effect on our operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. As holding companies, Denny’s Corporation and Denny’s Holdings depend on upstream payments from their operating subsidiaries. Our ability to repay our indebtedness depends on the performance of those subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions to us. A substantial portion of our assets are owned, and a substantial percentage of our total operating revenues are earned, by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, Denny’s Corporation and Denny’s Holdings depend upon dividends, loans and other intercompany transfers from these subsidiaries to meet their debt service and other obligations. These transfers are subject to contractual restrictions. The subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and they have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make any funds available to meet our debt service and other obligations, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. If the subsidiaries do not pay dividends or other distributions, Denny’s Corporation and Denny’s Holdings may not have sufficient cash to fulfill their obligations. 6 Risks Related to our Indebtedness Our indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of approximately $327.6 million. Our level of indebtedness could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • require us to continue to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We may need to access the capital markets in the future to raise the funds to repay our indebtedness. We have no assurance that we will be able to complete a refinancing or that we will be able to raise any additional financing, particularly in view of our anticipated high levels of indebtedness and the restrictions contained in the credit agreements and indenture that govern our indebtedness. If we are unable to satisfy or refinance our current debt as it comes due, we may default on our debt obligations. If we default on payments under our debt obligations, virtually all of our other debt would become immediately due and payable. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Despite our current and anticipated debt levels, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our credit agreement and the indenture governing our indebtedness limit, but do not fully prohibit, us from incurring additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. At December 31, 2008, we had an outstanding term loan of $126.7 million and outstanding letters of credit of $35.2 million under our letter of credit facility. There were no outstanding letters of credit under our revolver facility and no revolving loans outstanding at December 31, 2008. These balances result in availability of $1.8 million under our letter of credit facility and $50.0 million under the revolving facility. As of February 25, 2009, we had availability of $1.6 million under our letter of credit facility and $50.0 million under the revolving facility. There were no outstanding letters of credit under our revolving facility and no revolving loans outstanding at February 25, 2009. In addition, we have Denny's Holdings Inc. 10% Senior Notes due in 2012 (the "10% Notes") with an aggregate principal amount of $175 million. We continue to monitor our cash flow and liquidity needs. Although we believe that our existing cash balances, funds from operations and amounts available under our credit facility will be adequate to cover those needs, we may seek additional sources of funds including additional financing sources and continued selected asset sales, to maintain sufficient cash flow to fund our ongoing operating needs, pay interest and scheduled debt amortization and fund anticipated capital expenditures over the next twelve months. There are no material debt maturities until December 2011. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and we may not be able to generate the cash required to service or repay our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our subsidiaries’ operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our historical financial results have been, and our future financial results are expected to be, subject to substantial fluctuations. We cannot be sure that our subsidiaries will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to service or reduce our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our subsidiaries’ ability to maintain or increase operating cash flow will depend upon: • consumer tastes and spending habits; • the success of our marketing initiatives and other efforts by us to increase guest traffic in our restaurants; and • prevailing economic conditions and other matters discussed throughout "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity or seek additional equity capital. We cannot be sure that we will be able to pay or refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional equity capital on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, especially in a difficult economic environment. 7 Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely affect us. The credit agreement and the indenture governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make distributions or certain other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • create dividend or other payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • guarantee indebtedness; • enter into transactions with stockholders or affiliates; • create liens; • sell assets and use the proceeds thereof; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; and • enter into certain mergers and consolidations. Our credit agreement contains additional restrictive covenants, including financial maintenance requirements. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger, acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. A breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. In addition, our credit agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control (such as uncertainties related to the current economy), and we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt instruments, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot be sure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness. We may not be able to repurchase the 10% Senior Notes due 2012 upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we would be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding 10% Notes at 101% of their principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, from the issue date. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient funds. Further, our credit agreement restricts our ability to repurchase the notes, and also provides that certain change of control events will constitute a default under our credit agreement that permits our lenders thereunder to accelerate the maturity of related borrowings, and, if such debt is not paid, to enforce security interests in the collateral securing such debt, thereby limiting our ability to raise cash to purchase the notes. Any future credit agreements or other agreements relating to indebtedness to which we become a party may contain similar restrictions and provisions. In the event a change of control occurs at a time when we are prohibited by any other indebtedness from purchasing the notes, we could seek consent of the lenders of such indebtedness to the purchase of the notes or could attempt to refinance the borrowings that contain such prohibition. If we do not obtain such consent or repay such borrowings, we will remain prohibited from purchasing the notes. In such case, our failure to purchase tendered notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which would, in turn, constitute a default under our credit agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 8 Item 