Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business The restaurant business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. The restaurant business is highly competitive and the competition is expected to increase. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. The following are important aspects of competition: • restaurant location; • food quality and value; • quality and speed of service; • attractiveness and repair and maintenance of facilities; and • the effectiveness of marketing and advertising programs. Each of our restaurants competes with a wide variety of restaurants ranging from national and regional restaurant chains (some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do) to locally owned restaurants. There is also active competition for advantageous commercial real estate sites suitable for restaurants. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, demographic trends, bad publicity, regional weather conditions and increased supply and labor costs. Food service businesses are often adversely affected by changes in: • consumer tastes; • national, regional and local economic conditions; and • demographic trends. The performance of our individual restaurants may be adversely affected by factors such as: • traffic patterns; • demographic consideration; and • the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Multi-unit food service chains such as ours can also be materially and adversely affected by publicity resulting from: • poor food quality; • illness; • injury; and • other health concerns or operating issues. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and groceries subjects food service businesses to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, the food service industry in general and our results of operations and financial condition in particular may also be adversely affected by unfavorable trends or developments such as: • inflation; • increased food costs; • increased energy costs; • labor and employee benefits costs (including increases in minimum hourly wage and employment tax rates); 7 Table of Contents • regional weather conditions; and • the availability of experienced management and hourly employees. The locations where we have restaurants may cease to be attractive as demographic patterns change. The success of our owned and franchised restaurants is significantly influenced by location. Current locations may not continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. It is possible that the neighborhood or economic conditions where our restaurants are located could decline in the future, potentially resulting in reduced sales in those locations. A majority of our restaurants are owned and operated by independent franchisees, and as a result the financial performance of franchisees can negatively impact our business. The majority of our restaurants are owned and operated by independent franchisees. Many of our franchisees have experienced financial difficulties. In the last five years, several franchisees have been liquidated through bankruptcy. Our franchise agreement requires each franchisee to remodel the restaurant every seven or eight years, and a franchisee may not have sufficient funds available to complete the work and continue its operations. The royalties, contributions to advertising and, in some cases, rents we receive from franchise restaurants depend on the financial health of the franchisee as well as operating results of the franchisee at a particular location. Although the loss of revenues from the closure of any one franchise restaurant may not be material, such revenues generate margins that exceed those generated by company-owned restaurants or offset expenses which we continue to incur, such as rental expense on those restaurants that we originally owned and leased. Our business model has from time to time involved the sale of company-owned restaurants to franchisees, many of whom borrowed heavily to acquire the businesses. While we hold very little of that debt, the high leverage of franchisees might put them at a disadvantage with respect to competitors. The interests of franchisees, as owners of the majority of our restaurants, might sometimes conflict with our interests. For example, whereas franchisees are concerned with their individual business strategies and objectives, we are responsible for ensuring the success of our entire chain of restaurants and for taking a longer term view with respect to system improvements. Numerous government regulations impact our business, and our failure to comply with them could adversely affect our business. We and our franchisees are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things: • health; • sanitation; • environmental matters; • safety; • the sale of alcoholic beverages; and • hiring and employment practices, including minimum wage laws. Our restaurant operations are also subject to federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination and laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. The operation of our franchisee system is also subject to regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission. If we or our franchisees fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subjected to restaurant closure, fines, penalties, and litigation, which may be costly. In addition, the future enactment of additional legislation regulating the franchise relationship could adversely affect our operations, particularly our relationship with franchisees. 8 Table of Contents Negative publicity generated by incidents at a few restaurants can adversely affect the operating results of our entire chain and the Denny’s brand. Food safety concerns, criminal activity, alleged discrimination or other operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants do not just impact that particular restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. Rather, our entire chain of restaurants may be at risk from negative publicity generated by an incident at a single restaurant. This negative publicity can adversely affect the operating results of our entire chain and the Denny’s brand. As holding companies, Denny’s Corporation and Denny’s Holdings depend on upstream payments from their operating subsidiaries. A substantial portion of our assets are owned, and a substantial percentage of our total operating revenues are earned, by our subsidiaries. Our ability to repay our indebtedness depends upon the performance of these subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions to us. Denny’s Corporation and Denny’s Holdings are holding companies, which currently conduct their operations through consolidated subsidiaries. As a result, substantially all of our assets are owned, and our cash flow generated, by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, Denny’s Corporation and Denny’s Holdings depend upon dividends, loans and other intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to meet their debt service and other obligations. These transfers are subject to contractual restrictions and are contingent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and they have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make any funds available to meet our debt service and other obligations, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. If our subsidiaries do not pay dividends or other distributions, Denny’s Corporation and Denny’s Holdings may not have sufficient cash to fulfill their obligations. If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers and key team members, particularly regional and area managers and restaurant general managers. Competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or key team members or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could materially harm our business. Risks Related to our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 28, 2005, we had total indebtedness of approximately $553.8 million, and a shareholders’ deficit of approximately $265.4 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • require us to continue to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. 9 Table of Contents We may need to access the capital markets in the future to raise the funds to repay our indebtedness. We have no assurance that we will be able to complete a refinancing or that we will be able to raise any additional financing, particularly in view of our anticipated high levels of indebtedness and the restrictions contained in the credit agreements and indenture that govern our indebtedness. If we are unable to satisfy or refinance our current debt as it comes due, we may default on our debt obligations. If we default on payments under our debt obligations, virtually all of our other debt would become immediately due and payable. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Despite our current and anticipated debt levels, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The credit agreements and the indenture governing our indebtedness limit, but do not fully prohibit, us from incurring additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. At December 28, 2005, we had outstanding letters of credit of $43.1 million and term loans of $342.8 million under our credit facilities, leaving net availability of $31.9 million. There were no revolving loans outstanding at December 28, 2005. At March 1, 2006, we had outstanding letters of credit of $43.2 million and term loans of $342.8 million under our credit facilities, leaving net availability of $31.8 million. There were no revolving loans outstanding at March 1, 2006. We continue to monitor our cash flow and liquidity needs. Although we believe that our existing cash balances, funds from operations and amounts available under our credit facilities will be adequate to cover those needs, we may seek additional sources of funds including additional financing sources and continued selected asset sales, to maintain sufficient cash flow to fund our ongoing operating needs, pay interest and scheduled debt amortization and fund anticipated capital expenditures over the next twelve months. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and we may not be able to generate the cash required to service or repay our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our subsidiaries’ operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our historical financial results have been, and our future financial results are expected to be, subject to substantial fluctuations. We cannot be sure that our subsidiaries will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to service or reduce our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our subsidiaries’ ability to maintain or increase operating cash flow will depend upon: • consumer tastes; • the success of our marketing initiatives and other efforts by us to increase customer traffic in our restaurants; and • prevailing economic conditions and other matters, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity or seek additional equity capital. We cannot be sure that we will be able to pay or refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional equity capital on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely affect us. The credit agreements and the indenture governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make distributions or certain other restricted payments; 10 Table of Contents • make certain investments; • create dividend or other payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • guarantee indebtedness; • enter into transactions with stockholders or affiliates; • create liens; • sell assets and use the proceeds thereof; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; and • enter into certain mergers and consolidations. Our credit agreements contain additional restrictive covenants, including financial maintenance requirements. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. A breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. In addition, our credit agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt instruments, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot be sure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we would be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding Denny’s Holdings 10% Senior Notes due 2012 (the “notes”) at 101% of their principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, from the issue date. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient funds. Further, our credit agreements restrict our ability to repurchase the notes, and also provide that certain change of control events will constitute a default under our credit agreements that permits our lenders thereunder to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder, and, if such debt is not paid, to enforce security interests in the collateral securing such debt, thereby limiting our ability to raise cash to purchase the notes. Any future credit agreements or other agreements relating to indebtedness to which we become a party may contain similar restrictions and provisions. In the event a change of control occurs at a time when we are prohibited by any other indebtedness from purchasing notes, we could seek the consent of the lenders of such indebtedness to the purchase of notes or could attempt to refinance the borrowings that contain such prohibition. If we do not obtain such a consent or repay such borrowings, we will remain prohibited from purchasing notes. In such case, our failure to purchase tendered notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which would, in turn, constitute a default under our credit agreements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 