ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. If we were to redevelop Tropicana Las Vegas, we could encounter problems during demolition, development and construction that could substantially increase the construction costs or delay the re-opening of Tropicana Las Vegas. We may undertake a major redevelopment project at Tropicana Las Vegas. Construction projects like Tropicana Las Vegas are subject to significant development and construction risks, any of which could cause unanticipated cost increases and delays. These include the following: - adverse weather that damages the project or causes delays; - delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, including re-licensure from the Nevada Gaming Commission; - changes in statutes, regulations, policies and agency interpretations of laws applicable to gaming projects; - changes to the plans or specifications; - shortages of materials and skilled labor; - engineering problems; - labor disputes and work stoppages with contractors, subcontractors or others that are constructing the project; - environmental issues; - shortages of qualified employees; - labor issues; - fire, flooding and other natural disasters, construction accidents; and - geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems. During redevelopment, the casino would not be open and would not generate revenue. If we were to redevelop Tropicana Las Vegas, we may not complete the redevelopment on time or within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects. We depend on the results of Tropicana Atlantic City. Any material adverse effect on the operations of Tropicana Atlantic City could have a material adverse effect on us. Approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues and 51% of our operating income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 were derived from the operations of Tropicana Atlantic City. Because of the importance of Tropicana Atlantic City to 28 our consolidated operating results, poor performance at Tropicana Atlantic City could have a material adverse effect on us. Tropicana Atlantic City experiences seasonal fluctuations in casino play that management believes are typical of casino hotel operations in Atlantic City. Operating results indicate that casino play is seasonally higher from May through October. Consequently, our revenues during the first and fourth quarters have generally been lower than for the second and third quarters, and from time to time we have experienced losses in the first and fourth quarters. Any event that adversely affects the operating results of Tropicana Atlantic City could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Because Atlantic City Tropicana's operating results especially depend upon operations in the summer months, any event that adversely affects the operating results of the Atlantic City Tropicana during that period could have a material adverse effect on our operations and f inancial condition. Given Atlantic City's location, it is also subject to occasional adverse weather conditions, including storms and hurricanes that would impede access to Atlantic City and adversely impact our operations. In addition, competition is expected to intensify in the Atlantic City market in light of recent and proposed expansion and new development activities. Non-reimbursed losses related to our October 30, 2003 construction accident could have a material adverse effect on us. An accident occurred on the site of the construction of the expansion of the Atlantic City Tropicana on October 30, 2003. The accident resulted in a loss of life and serious injuries, as well as extensive damage to the facilities under construction. Construction on the expansion project was substantially completed by year-end 2004. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred $4,276,000 of construction accident related costs and expenses that may not be reimbursed by insurance. These costs and expenses primarily consist of professional fees incurred as a result of the accident. Insurance claims for business interruption that occurred from the date of the accident through December 31, 2005 have been filed with our insurers in the amount of approximately $52,100,000, of which we have received $3,500,000. In addition, we have filed insurance claims for lost profits and additional costs as a result of the delay in the opening of the expansion. The total of these claims is approximately $70, 100,000, of which we have received $9,200,000. We have also filed insurance claims of $9,000,000 for other costs we have incurred that are related to the construction accident, of which we have received $1,500,000. In order to ensure that the construction proceed expeditiously and in order to settle certain disputes, we and the general contractor entered into a settlement agreement that delineates how we and the contractor will share the cost of and the insurance proceeds received for the dismantlement, debris removal, and rebuild. At December 31, 2005, our share of claims outstanding for dismantlement, debris removal and rebuild was approximately $37,000,000. Intense competition could result in our losing market share or profitability. We face intense competition in each of the markets in which our gaming facilities are located. All of our casinos primarily compete with other casinos in their geographic market and, to a lesser extent, with casinos in other locations, including on Native American lands and on cruise ships, and with other forms of legalized gaming in the United States, including state sponsored lotteries, racetracks, off-track wagering and card parlors. We expect this competition to intensify as new gaming operators enter our markets and existing competitors expand their operations. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we and as a result we may not be able to successfully compete 29 against them in the future. Several states have considered legalizing casino gaming and others may in the future. Legalization of large-scale, unlimited casino gaming in or near any major metropolitan area or increased gaming in other areas could have an adverse economic impact on the business of any or all of our gaming facilities by diverting our customers to competitors in those areas. In particular, the expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, online gaming is a growing sector within the gaming industry. Online casinos offer a variety of games, including slot machines, roulette, poker and blackjack. Web-enabled technologies allow individuals to game using a variety of credit or debit cards. We are unable to assess the impact that online gaming will have on our operations in the future and there is no assurance that the impact will not be material. Competition involves not only the quality of casino, room, restaurant, entertainment and convention facilities, but also room, food and beverage prices. Our operating results can be adversely affected by significant cash outlays for advertising and promotion and complimentary services to patrons, the amount and timing of which are partially dictated by the policies of competitors. If our operating revenues are insufficient to allow management the flexibility to match the promotions of competitors, the number of our casino patrons may decline, which may have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Atlantic City. Tropicana Atlantic City competes with 11 other casinos in Atlantic City. It also competes with two large Native American casinos in Connecticut. The Borgata Hotel, Casino and Spa, a joint venture between Boyd Gaming Corporation and MGM Mirage, opened in July 2003, in Atlantic City's Marina District. The Borgata was the first casino to open in Atlantic City since April 1990, although many of the existing casinos have increased their gaming capacities and a few casino hotels have had major expansions. Other companies have announced a desire to open new casino hotels or expand existing properties in Atlantic City in the future. The Atlantic City market also faces additional future competition from the growing Native American casinos in Connecticut and the future casinos in Pennsylvania and the potential legalization of casino gaming in Delaware, Maryland and New York. In addition, slot machines have been added to race tracks in Delaware and West Virginia. Las Vegas. Tropicana Las Vegas operates in the intensely competitive Las Vegas market. Competitors of Tropicana Las Vegas include resorts on the Las Vegas Strip, among which are Bally's Las Vegas, the Bellagio, Caesars Palace, Wynn Las Vegas, Harrah's Las Vegas Hotel and Casino, Luxor Hotel and Casino, Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino, MGM Grand Hotel and Casino, The Mirage, Monte Carlo Hotel and Casino, New York-New York Hotel and Casino, Paris Las Vegas, Treasure Island at The Mirage and The Venetian, and resorts off the Las Vegas Strip, such as Las Vegas Hilton, the Palms Casino Resort and Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino. The Venetian Resort and Casino has announced an expansion named "Palazzo" which they expect to open on the Las Vegas Strip adjacent to the existing property in the first quarter of 2007. Wynn Resorts' expansion named "Encore" is expected to open adjacent to its Wynn Las Vegas by 2010. The Stardust Resort and Casino has announced its plan to tear down the existing resort to make way for an approximately $4 billion hotel-casino-shopping complex called "Echelon Place." According to such announcement, the Stardust will be demolished in early 2007 and Echelon Place opened in 2010. MGM has announced a $7 billion project named "City Center", which is expected to open in phases in 2009 with completion in 2010. 30 Laughlin. Ramada Express competes with several other casinos in Laughlin. Ramada Express also competes with casinos outside of Laughlin, including the Mojave tribe's casino hotel located approximately eight miles south of Laughlin. The Laughlin market is also affected by the Native American casinos in Arizona and California and additional capacity in Las Vegas and the surrounding area. Evansville. Casino Aztar Evansville competes primarily with an Indiana riverboat casino in the Louisville, Kentucky market area and a riverboat casino in Metropolis, Illinois. Casino Aztar Evansville also indirectly competes with the Belterra Casino Resort, a riverboat casino in Switzerland County, Indiana. In addition, Casino Aztar Evansville competes with other Indiana riverboat casinos on the Ohio River in the Cincinnati, Ohio market area and to a lesser extent with riverboat casinos in other Indiana locations, none of which are in its primary 50-mile radius market area. Casino Aztar Evansville also competes with a pari-mutuel racing facility in Evansville. Casino Aztar Evansville will face additional future competition from an eleventh Indiana riverboat license, which was awarded in the West Baden area. There is also the potential for the legalization of casino gaming in Kentucky. Caruthersville. Casino Aztar Caruthersville competes primarily with other riverboat casinos in nearby states, including a riverboat casino in Metropolis, Illinois and riverboat casinos in Mississippi that attract residents of Casino Aztar Caruthersville's secondary Memphis, Tennessee market. Casino Aztar Caruthersville also competes to a lesser extent with riverboat casinos in other cities in Missouri, none of which are in its primary 60-mile radius market area. Casino Aztar Caruthersville may also face additional future competition from the potential legalization of casino gaming in Arkansas. We are subject to extensive regulation. Our failure to comply may have a material adverse effect on our operations. Regulation by Gaming Authorities. We face extensive state and local regulation on our ownership and operation of gaming facilities. The states and localities in which we conduct gaming operations require us to hold various licenses, qualifications, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals. The various gaming regulatory authorities, including the Nevada Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement, the Missouri Gaming Commission and the Indiana Gaming Commission may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend or revoke our gaming authorizations, including our ability to own the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing authorities. Substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved. If we are ever precluded from operating one o f our gaming facilities, we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover our full investment. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, qualifications, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our gaming facilities. However, there can be no assurance that we can obtain any new licenses, qualifications, findings of suitability, registrations, permits or approvals that may be required in the future or that existing ones will not be suspended or revoked. If we expand any of our current gaming facilities in New Jersey, Nevada, Indiana, or Missouri or into new jurisdictions, we must obtain all additional licenses, qualifications, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals of the gaming authorities. If we redevelop Tropicana Las Vegas, our license with the Nevada Gaming Commission would be surrendered in connection with the redevelopment and we would have to reapply for such license prior to re-opening. Any such approval process can be time consuming and costly and has no assurance of success. 31 From time to time, legislative and regulatory changes are proposed, and court decisions rendered, that could be adverse to us. In addition, from time to time, investigations are conducted relating to the gaming industry. We are required to report particular cash transactions to the U.S. Department of the Treasury pursuant to the Bank Secrecy Act. Violation of the reporting requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act could result in civil as well as criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment or both, which in turn could result in the revocation, suspension, imposition of conditions upon or failure to renew the casino license of the affected facility. The States of Nevada and Indiana have adopted regulations similar to the Bank Secrecy Act that require the Nevada and Indiana facilities to document and report specific currency transactions to the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Indiana Gaming Commission, respectively, in addition to reporting to the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Violation of t hese regulations could result in action by Nevada or Indiana authorities to fine or revoke, suspend, impose conditions upon or fail to renew the Nevada or Indiana facilities' licenses and our licensing approval. Taxation Policies. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the legislatures of some of the jurisdictions in which we have operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax aspects of the gaming industry and us in particular. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. The federal government has also previously considered a federal tax on casino revenues and may consider such a tax in the future. In addition, gaming companies are currently subject to significant state and local taxes and fees in addition to normal federal and state corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. For example, in June 2002 the legislature in Indiana changed the gaming and admission tax rates for casino operators. Then, in its 2003 legislative session, the Indiana General Assembly imposed a retroactive wagering tax on all riverboat casinos, moving the effective date of the 2002 graduated wagering tax from August 1, 2002 to July 1, 2002. The Indiana D epartment of Revenue has assessed this retroactive tax on the riverboat casinos, without providing an offset for taxes paid at a higher tax rate during that one-month period. Any material increase in assessed taxes, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees in any of our markets, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. Regulation of Our Riverboats. The riverboat gaming and support facilities that we operate must comply with U.S. Coast Guard requirements as to boat design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and safety or requirements of state and local law, including the requirements of state gaming authorities, or both. If any of our riverboat gaming and support facilities fail to meet these requirements, we might be forced to stop operating the casino on it or connected with it. Each of the floating riverboat facilities must hold a Certificate of Inspection or must be approved by the American Bureau of Shipping for stabilization and flotation, and may also be subject to local zoning and building codes, as well as additional requirements mandated by state law or by the gaming regulatory authority with jurisdiction over the facilities. The U.S. Coast Guard requirements establish design standards, set limits on the operation of the cruising vessels and require individual licensing of all personnel involved with th e operation of the cruising vessels. Loss of a Certificate of Inspection or American Bureau of Shipping approval or other approval mandated by state law or by the gaming regulatory authority with respect to our riverboat facilities would preclude its use as a floating casino. In addition, U.S. Coast Guard regulations require a hull inspection at a U.S. Coast Guard-approved dry docking facility or an underwater hull survey for all cruising riverboats at five-year intervals and state and local authorities may have additional inspection requirements. The travel to and from such docking facility, as well as the time required for inspections, could be significant. The loss of a dockside casino or riverboat casino from service for any period of time could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Adverse economic conditions could have a negative effect on our business. Gaming industry revenues are sensitive to general economic conditions and are influenced by consumer confidence in the economy and other factors. For instance, our properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. The recent substantial increases in the cost of electricity in the United States could negatively affect our operating results. The extent of such impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy price increases, but this impact could be material. In addition, energy prices in cities that constitute a significant source of our customers for our properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers and a corresponding decrease in visitation to our properties, which would negatively impact revenues. In addition, the currently elevated price of gasoline, and any further increases, may cause our potential customers to forego driving to our properties or reduce the frequency of visits, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Also, a recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of customers for our properties, could result in fewer customers visiting our properties, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Terrorist activity or threat of such terrorist activity or other natural disasters may negatively impact our business. The strength and profitability of our business will depend on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of amenities we offer. Certain catastrophic events such as major fires, floods, storms, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, tidal waves, civil disorders, riots, biological attacks, war, acts of sabotage or terrorism or other similar events could result in a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the casino and hospitality industries can be adversely affected by terrorist activity or the threat, perceived or otherwise, of terrorist activity. Such activity or threat may limit levels of business and personal travel and cause concerns about the safety of high-profile tourism areas, such as Las Vegas. Las Vegas tourism experienced decline in 2002 as a consequence of the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts. Our dockside and riverboat facilities are subject to additional risks. Dockside and riverboat facilities are subject to risks in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, including loss of service due to casualty, mechanical failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, flood, hurricane or other severe weather. Our riverboats face additional risks from the movement of vessels on waterways. Reduced patronage and the loss of a dockside or riverboat casino from service for any period of time could adversely affect our results of operations. We are party to various legal proceedings. A negative outcome in these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are a party to certain legal proceedings, including our involvement as a defendant in a video poker and electronic slot machine lawsuit as well as our involvement in several lawsuits, as either a defendant or a plaintiff, related to the October 30, 2003 construction accident at the site of the expansion of the Atlantic City Tropicana. These lawsuits are described in more detail under Item 3 - Legal Proceedings. Regardless of the ultimate outcome of our legal proceedings, they could result in significant diversion of time by our management. The results of our pending legal proceedings, including any potential settlements, are uncertain and we cannot assure you that the outcome of these disputes will not adversely affect our operating results. 33 We are subject to various environmental regulations. Our failure to comply may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and ordinances that apply to gaming and non-gaming businesses generally, including among others: - the Clean Air Act; - the Clean Water Act; - the Occupational Safety and Health Act; and - Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. We have not made any material expenditures with respect to environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and ordinances. However, the insurance coverage and attendant compliance costs associated with these laws, regulations and ordinances may result in future additional costs to our operations. For example, in 1990, the U.S. Congress enacted the Oil Pollution Act to establish a comprehensive federal oil spill response and liability framework. Pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act, the Department of Transportation implemented regulations requiring owners and operators of specific vessels, including us, to establish and maintain through the U.S. Coast Guard evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet their potential liability under both the Oil Pollution Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act for discharges or threatened discharges of oil or hazardous substances. This requirement may be satisfied by either proof of adequate insurance, including self-i nsurance, or the posting of a surety bond or guaranty. Some of our properties currently have or had underground fuel storage tanks and construction materials containing asbestos. We extend credit to our customers and our inability to collect gaming debts may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis, except in Missouri, which prohibits gaming on a credit basis. Table games players are typically extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players are typically extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. Our credit policy varies from facility to facility based upon the various types of customers at each facility and regulatory requirements in each jurisdiction. In general, credit is extended to new credit customers after verification of certain banking information and evaluation of the customer's credit history from other casinos, the customer's income and net worth, and traditional consumer credit reports. Additional credit may be extended to existing credit customers after evaluating the above factors plus the player's prior gaming and credit history with our casino. Gaming debts are legally enforceable under the current laws of Indiana, New Jersey and Nevada; however, it is not clear that all ot her states or that foreign countries will honor these policies. At December 31, 2005, receivables due from non-United States customers were 9% of our accounts receivable before the allowance for doubtful accounts. We have made provisions for estimated uncollectible gaming receivables in order to reduce gaming receivables to amounts deemed to be collectible. However, our inability to collect gaming receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The loss of our senior management could significantly harm our business. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of our senior management team. We will rely on senior management's knowledge of the local market and experience in opening and operating 34 casinos in the markets in which we operate. We may not be able to retain our existing senior management or attract and retain additional qualified senior management personnel when the need arises. If we lose the services of a large portion of our senior management and are unable to find suitable replacements, our business may be significantly impaired. We may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage to replace or cover the full value of losses that we could suffer. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and other market conditions have substantially affected the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences. While we have obtained limited insurance coverage with respect to the occurrences of casualty damage to cover any losses that could result from these acts or events for the next year, we may not be able to obtain sufficient or similar insurance for later periods. The lack of sufficient types of insurance for these types of acts and other casualty losses could expose us to heavy losses in the event that any damages occur, directly or indirectly, as a result of such casualty losses. In the event that we do not have sufficient insurance coverage to insure against certain casualty losses our operations could be negatively impacted. If a third party asserts certain forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. Historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. However, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. It is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. The defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such allegations should be true, may have a material impact on our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2005, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $723,000,000. In addition, the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness permit us to incur additional debt if required debt coverage tests are satisfied. If new debt were to be incurred in the future, the related risks could increase. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant effects on our business and future operations. For example: - we may face difficulties in satisfying our obligations with respect to the indebtedness; - we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to repay our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general operating requirements; - we may be limited in our ability to react to changing business and economic conditions and withstand competitive pressures; 35 - it could result in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, which would permit the lenders thereunder to exercise remedies against us and our properties; - it may limit our ability to obtain financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; - we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; - our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; - we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; - we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagors may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans; - we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; and - it may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Ramada indemnification agreements could have a material adverse effect on us. In connection with our restructuring in December 1989, we agreed to indemnify Ramada Inc. against all monetary judgments in certain lawsuits pending against Ramada and its subsidiaries, as well as all related attorneys' fees and expenses not paid at that time, except for any judgments, fees or expenses accrued on the hotel business balance sheet and except for any unaccrued and unreserved aggregate amount up to $5,000,000 of judgments, fees or expenses related exclusively to the hotel business. There is no limit to the term or the maximum potential future payment under this indemnification. In addition, we agreed to indemnify Ramada for certain lease guarantees made by Ramada. The lease terms potentially extend through 2015 and Ramada guaranteed all obligations under these leases. The estimated maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnifications is $7,000,000 at December 31, 2005. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 