ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business We are re-focusing the company to primarily focus on the development and distribution of enterprise software development solutions. If we are unable to successfully complete this change to the business quickly and smoothly, our operating results could be harmed. Over the past several quarters we have been transforming our business to focus on Open Application Lifecycle Management, or ALM, solutions. Prior to the development of our ALM strategy, our principal business related to our integrated developer environment, or IDE, products. We will retain our IDE assets and operate this business as our CodeGear division for the foreseeable future. Our enterprise business focuses on the development and distribution of enterprise software development solutions, in contrast to our CodeGear division, which targets development tools for individual software developers. The risks of this change in focus include, among others: • Changes in go-to-market strategy. Our ALM offerings are sold to enterprises, whereas our CodeGear offerings are primarily sold to individual software developers. As a result, to achieve revenue growth with our ALM strategy, we must enhance our enterprise selling capability, increase sales force productivity and generally complete more large revenue, multi-product sales of our ALM solutions. We will also need to further define our product roadmaps and generally continue to evolve our ALM offerings. To do so, we must coordinate the efforts of our marketing, sales, services and research and development organizations to focus on the needs of large enterprises. These tasks are complicated, involve many people and processes, and require consistency and persistence in the market place to be effective. In addition, this enterprise-focused strategy involves different skills, partners and competencies than our historical IDE strategy, which focused principally on sales through distribution channels. If we fail to coordinate our efforts and deliver broader value to large enterprise customers, our operating results may suffer. • Changes in our sales organization and sales leadership. Our ALM strategy requires us to focus our sales effort on enterprise customers. To drive these changes, we will continue to make changes throughout our global sales force, particularly in Asia Pacific, or APAC, markets (other than Japan and Australia) where direct sales models are being replaced in some instances with indirect partner models. While we believe these changes will enhance our leadership in those regions, these efforts may prove unsuccessful in increasing our sales to enterprise customers. • Changes in our sales cycles. Sales to large enterprises often involve long and unpredictable sales cycles. We are becoming more dependent on large revenue, multi-product transactions to meet our revenue expectations. These transactions often have long sales cycles and we may be unable to accurately forecast revenues derived from these transactions. If we fail to accurately forecast revenues, we may not achieve the anticipated financial performance, which could harm our business and operating results. • Changes in our marketing strategy. As part of our change in focus, we continue to redefine our marketing strategy. We must increase lead generation and develop appropriate marketing programs targeted at the enterprise customer. As an organization, we are relatively new at this. If we are unable to develop effective marketing programs and increase our pipeline of sales opportunities, or if our sales organization in turn is unable to effectively convert leads into customers, our revenues will suffer. • Changes in our services organization. In 2006, we consolidated our consulting services and sales organizations to better focus on customer engagements. We also combined our technical support organization with our field operations organization to more closely align our efforts relating to customers. The implementation of these changes will continue to require careful planning and coordination to ensure we maintain customer satisfaction. In addition, such changes may result in the loss of key services personnel. In the event customer satisfaction is harmed or we lose key personnel, our business could be harmed. While we believe the change in our business to focus on our ALM strategy is critical to growing our business, we may be unable to manage this change effectively and quickly and our business, results of operations, financial 10 Table of Contents condition and prospects could be harmed. In addition, expenses associated with our restructuring and change of strategy will likely continue to have an adverse impact on our operating results at least through 2007. Our failure to efficiently complete the separation of our CodeGear division from our enterprise business and effectively operate CodeGear could harm our operating results. As announced in November 2006, we are retaining our IDE assets for the foreseeable future rather than selling them. We began operating this part of our business as our CodeGear division on January 1, 2007, however the separation of CodeGear from our enterprise business is a complicated process which is not yet complete. The process includes a worldwide analysis and plan to identify and separate personnel, customers and partner relationships, office space, intellectual property and other assets. This process requires time and effort of management and key personnel of both our enterprise business and CodeGear division who would otherwise be dedicated to running these respective businesses. There will continue to be other resources dedicated to facilitate the separation, including those relating to IT, development and systems for financial reporting and internal controls. While our goal is to separate CodeGear in a manner that is efficient for our CodeGear and enterprise businesses, there can be no guarantee that we will achieve these goals. Failure to implement this separation efficiently could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. We have experienced significant changes in our senior management team and if we are not able to effectively integrate new senior management members, our business could be harmed. There have been a number of significant changes in our senior management team, including the addition of our new Senior Vice President, Research and Development in August 2006, our new Senior Vice President and General Counsel in October 2006, our new Chief Financial Officer in November 2006 and our new Senior Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations in January 2007. As a result of these changes, we may not be able to effectively manage our business during this period of transition, especially in light of the changes in our strategy and related operations. As new senior personnel join us and become familiar with our business and systems, their integration could also disrupt our ongoing operations. There is a risk that the new management may not work effectively as a team, at least in the near term. During this transition in leadership and our business, our customers may defer purchasing our products or decide not to purchase them at all. We may experience employee distraction, or we may see increased competitive pressure as our competitors attempt to use this period of change to their advantage. If we are unable to effectively manage through this transition quickly and effectively, it could adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to implement systems to meet the requirements and manage the large service projects necessary for our enterprise may result in delays in recognizing revenue on these projects and thus could harm our profit and adversely affect our results of operations. Our enterprise business focuses on large, complex professional services agreements. Our inability to structure and manage services agreements may result in unanticipated changes to the timing of our services revenue. In addition, if we bundle services together with our license agreements, this may also affect the timing of recognizing our license revenue. We may need to implement new systems or upgrade current systems to manage these large, complex services agreements. If we fail to make appropriate changes to our existing systems or if our services agreements lead to unanticipated changes to the timing of revenue recognition, our results of operations could be harmed. Our inability to forecast our revenue pipeline or convert revenue pipeline into contracts, especially given our increasing focus on enterprise customers, could increase fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our ALM business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of all potential transactions, including the estimated closing date and potential dollar amount of each transaction. We aggregate these estimates periodically to generate a sales pipeline and then evaluate the pipeline to identify trends in our business. This pipeline analysis and related estimates of revenue may differ significantly from actual revenues in a particular reporting period. When customers delay purchasing decisions, reduce the amount of their purchases or cancel their purchases altogether, it will reduce the rate of 11 Table of Contents conversion of the pipeline into contracts and our revenues will be harmed. In addition, because a substantial portion of our software license contracts close in the latter part of a quarter, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure to respond to a variation in the conversion of the pipeline into contracts in a timely manner. Our inability to respond to a variation in the pipeline or in the conversion of the pipeline into contracts in a timely manner, or at all, could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately and thereby could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have begun to license our software directly to large enterprises and have experienced sales cycles that are substantially more lengthy and uncertain than those associated with our traditional business of licensing software through indirect and retail channels and more modest direct sales. As we focus on large transactions involving multiple elements, enterprise customers generally require us to expend substantial time, effort and money establishing a relationship and educating them about our solutions. Also, sales to enterprise customers generally require an extensive sales effort throughout many levels within the customer’s organization and often require final approval by several layers of executives, including the customer’s chief information officer, chief financial officer and/or other senior executives. These factors substantially extend the sales cycle and increase the uncertainty of whether a sale will be made in any particular quarter, or at all. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience delays and uncertainties in our sales cycles as well as increased up-front expenses in connection with our enterprise sales efforts. The timing of the execution of enterprise volume licenses could cause our results of operations to vary significantly from quarter to quarter, especially when we anticipate certain transactions will close in a particular quarter. Further, industry buying patterns suggest that larger transactions are frequently deferred until later in the quarter, creating increased difficulty in quarterly forecasting. If a sale is never completed despite months or even years of selling efforts, we will have expended substantial time, money and resources during the pre-sales effort without generating any revenue to offset these expenses. Finally, due to the complexity and time commitment necessary to pursue each of these transactions, we focus on a small number of proposed sales at any time and if we fail to complete any of these sales, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. Because competition for qualified technical and management personnel is intense, we may not be able to recruit or retain qualified personnel, which could harm our business. We believe our ability to successfully manage and grow our business and to develop new products depends, in large part, on our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees, particularly highly skilled software engineers, sales personnel and management personnel. Competition for qualified technical and management personnel is intense, particularly in Silicon Valley, where our headquarters are located. Also, in the past some of our competitors have utilized their greater resources to provide substantial signing bonuses and other inducements to lure key personnel away from us. We employ a variety of measures to retain our key people, including granting of stock options and restricted stock and the use of bonuses, but these measures may not be sufficient. We have experienced a relatively high rate of employee turnover and will be subject to continued risk of turnover given the changes we are experiencing. If we are unable to recruit and retain quality personnel, our ability to provide competitive products could be harmed. As a result, we may lose customers or may not achieve anticipated sales during a particular period. In addition, the loss of technical talent may result in the inability to ship new products or product upgrades at the times originally planned. If we experience delays in the shipment of new products or product upgrades, we may be unable to achieve anticipated sales during a particular period. We have historically used stock options and other forms of equity compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interest with the interests of our stockholders while encouraging employee retention. The decline of our stock price over the last few years has made stock options a less attractive portion of our employee compensation program. As a result, we may find it increasingly difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees. 12 Table of Contents Our success is dependent upon our ability to enhance the quality and scalability of our various products, improve the integration and overall functionality of these products, and evolve our solution toward our ALM strategy. We produce and sell a broad portfolio of products to manage the software development process. The market for these products is characterized by continuous technological advancement, evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. A significant portion of our research and development focus is on integrating our many existing and recently acquired products into a cohesive ALM solution. Managing our development activities as we execute our change in strategy is complex and involves a number of risks, especially with respect to maintaining competitiveness across our individual products while at the same time bolstering the integration and functionality of our products. We may not be successful in designing and marketing new products, integrating acquired products, providing the necessary product enhancements or features to address increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our customers or in enhancing the integration and functionality of our ALM platform. To be successful in this market, we will also need to be able to compete with several large and well-established companies with more experience in these markets. Our customers use a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, software and operating platforms, adding to our development challenges. We will continue to invest significant resources to develop products for new or emerging software and hardware platforms in the server, desktop, mobile and other environments that may develop from time to time. However, there is a risk that a new hardware or software platform for which we do not provide products could rapidly grow in popularity. In particular, we believe that this risk is substantial for particular proprietary platforms and languages for which we may not be given economically feasible access or access at all. As a result, we may not be in a position to develop products for such platforms or may be late in doing so. If we fail to introduce new products that address the needs of emerging market segments or if our new products do not achieve market acceptance as a result of delays in development or other factors, our future growth and revenue opportunity could suffer. If we are unable to maintain revenue levels for our deployment products, our financial results may be harmed. We currently have a portion of our revenue attributable to our deployment products. These products are mature products and we primarily rely on new sales to existing customers, maintenance agreements with existing customers, compliance purchases through customer audits and sales through existing independent software vendors and original equipment manufacturers’ partners to generate revenue. We have experienced weakness and fluctuations in revenue from these products in the past and believe they will continue to be subject to commoditization. Our deployment products are generally based on older standards and technologies, which are used in a decreasing number of industries, networks and applications. We devote little marketing to these products and primarily rely on the effectiveness of the sales force and compliance teams to work with customers and partners to generate sales. There have been many changes in the sales force over the past several quarters, especially in Europe where we have historically generated a significant amount of revenue from our deployment products. If we are unable to maintain effective sales programs for our deployment products, or if existing customers migrate away from our deployment products, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our markets are intensely competitive. In the market for comprehensive software development solutions, we face competition from some of the largest software providers in the world. For example, IBM, Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, Hewlett-Packard, Computer Associates and others provide or have stated they intend to provide comprehensive enterprise software development and integration solutions. Traditionally, we have partnered with some of these competitors to offer a broader solution to their or our customer base; however, as our partners and business strategy change, a larger market overlap may develop and some or all of these partnering arrangements could be adversely affected or terminated. Most of these competitors have substantially greater financial, management, marketing and technical resources than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have well established relationships with our current and potential customers, extensive knowledge of the market, substantial experience in selling enterprise solutions, strong professional services and technical support offerings and extensive 13 Table of Contents product development, sales and marketing resources. As a result of their greater resources and established relationships, these competitors may be more successful than we are at developing and marketing products and solutions in our markets. In addition, the markets for our CodeGear products are characterized by rapid change, new and emerging technologies, and aggressive competition. Some of our competitors include IBM, Microsoft and Sun Microsystems. We attempt to differentiate our products from those of our competitors based on interoperability, total cost of ownership, product quality, performance, level of integration and reliability. We may be unable to successfully differentiate our products from those of our competitors, or we may be unable to compete with the substantially greater resources many of our competitors have. If so, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. The complexity of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could materially affect our financial results for a given period. Although we use standardized agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in multi-product license and services transactions. As our transactions have increased in complexity, particularly with the sale of larger, multi-product licenses, negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions may require us to defer recognition of revenue on such licenses. We believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as amended; however, more complex, multi-product license transactions require additional accounting analysis to account for them accurately. Errors in such analysis in any period could lead to unanticipated changes in our revenue accounting practices and may affect the timing of revenue recognition, which could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. If we discover that we have interpreted and applied revenue recognition rules differently than prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S, we could be required to devote significant management resources, and incur the expense associated with an audit, restatement or other examination of our financial statements. We, and our independent registered public accounting firm, have determined that we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We dedicated a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with this legislation for the year ended December 31, 2006 and will continue to do so for future fiscal periods. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation, the implementation of improvements and the receipt of a positive attestation, or any attestation at all, by our independent registered public accounting firm. Additionally, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. As reported in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, management concluded that one of the two material weaknesses identified in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 had not been remediated as of December 31, 2006. Management concluded that as of December 31, 2006, we did not maintain an effective control environment based on the criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, or COSO, with respect to senior management’s role in promoting compliance with policies and procedures and the prevention or detection of the override of our controls. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Because of this material weakness, our management concluded that, as of December 31, 2006, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has issued an opinion 14 Table of Contents stating that management’s conclusion that we did not maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 was fairly stated. This opinion is attached to this Annual Report. We have taken measures to remediate the material weakness, which are discussed under Item 9A of this Annual Report, however not all of the newly designed controls have operated for a sufficient period of time to demonstrate operating effectiveness. We continue to monitor and assess our remediation activities to ensure the material weakness discussed above is remediated as soon as possible. However, there can be no assurance the material weakness discussed above will be remediated in the 2007 fiscal year or that there will not be additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls. Should we or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine in future fiscal periods that we have failed to remedy such material weaknesses and/or that we have additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reports may be impacted, and our results of operations or financial condition may be harmed and the price of our common stock may decline. We have been unable to timely file our annual and quarterly reports as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and our continued inability to file these reports on time could result in your not having access to important information about us and the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market. We were late in filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and our Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006, and September 30, 2006. As a result, during the periods in which these reports were late, we were not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market and, in some cases, with the SEC’s rules and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are required to comply with these rules as a condition of the continued listing of our stock on the Nasdaq Global Market. Although we are not currently late with respect to any annual or quarterly report, there can be no assurance that we will be able to file all such reports in the future in a timely manner. If we are unable to timely file these reports in the future, it may impede your access to important information about us and, in the case of a prolonged delay in filing, result in our common stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. Delisting could result in our common stock no longer being traded on any securities exchange or over-the-counter market and could impact its liquidity and price. In addition, if we were delisted, we would be in default under the senior convertible notes we issued in February 2007, which would cause the notes to become immediately due and payable. We are in the midst of significant changes to our financial reporting and accounting team and systems, which may impact our ability to comply with our financial reporting and accounting obligations. Our financial reporting and accounting team has undergone several personnel changes, including the departure of our Chief Financial Officer in the second quarter of 2006 and the hiring of our new Chief Financial Officer in November 2006. While we believe we have retained qualified individuals on an interim basis to assist us in complying with our financial reporting and accounting obligations as a public company, we are in the process of trying to fill certain positions with permanent employees, which we may not be able to do in a timely manner. During this transition period, we may have a difficult time attracting, recruiting and retaining qualified finance personnel. If we fail to staff our accounting and finance function adequately or maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner and our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. We are in the process of implementing plans for reducing expenses and if we fail to achieve the results we expect, there will be a negative effect on our financial condition. As a part of our restructuring plans, we are in the process of implementing plans to reduce expenses, which have included the consolidation of certain office locations, reductions in capital expenditures, reduction in discretionary spending, reduction in the work force and other cost cutting measures. If we experience difficulties in implementing these measures, it may be necessary to implement additional cost cutting measures. In addition, our plans to reduce expenses may not be completed in a timely manner or result in anticipated cost savings, which 15 Table of Contents would impair our goal to achieve profitability and positive cash flow. In addition, we are currently operating at a net loss and there can be no assurance as to when we will return to profitability, if at all. In order to fund our ongoing operations in future periods it will be necessary for us to achieve profitability. Consolidation in our industry or fluctuation in our stock price may impede our ability to compete effectively. Consolidation continues to occur among companies that compete in our markets. Additionally, some of the largest software and hardware providers in the world have sought to expand their software and services offerings through acquisitions in the software development, deployment and integration space. For instance, in November 2006, Hewlett Packard acquired one of our competitors, Mercury Interactive. If these large providers, who have significantly greater financial, management, marketing and technical resources than we have, are successful in increasing their offerings in the software development market, our business will be subject to significant pressure and our ability to compete effectively harmed. Additionally, changes resulting from these and other consolidations may harm our competitive position, particularly as certain products, when offered as part of a bundled suite, are offered for free or are given away to sell more hardware, infrastructure components or information technology services. As the trend toward consolidation continues, we may encounter increased competition for attractive acquisition targets and may have to pay higher prices for those businesses or technologies we seek to acquire. In addition, we have seen a recent decline in our stock price, which will in turn make it more difficult for us to use stock as a currency for the acquisition of strategic businesses or technologies. This will put pressure on our ability to seek out potential acquisition targets which may impede our growth and our ability to compete effectively. We depend on technologies licensed to us by third parties, such as Sun Microsystems and Microsoft, and the loss of or inability to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay sales or shipments of certain of our products. We depend on licenses from third-party suppliers for some elements of our products such as various file libraries. In particular, we depend on technology licenses from Sun Microsystems for certain of our Java products, and we depend on licenses from Microsoft for our Delphi, C++, C#Builder and Borland Developer Studio products. If any of these licenses or other third-party licenses were terminated or were not renewed, or if these third-parties failed to notify us in a timely manner of any new or updated technology, we might not be able to ship such products as planned or provide support for such products, including upgrades. We would then have to seek an alternative to the third-party’s technology and, in some cases, an alternative may not exist. This could result in delays in releasing and/or shipping our products, increased costs by having to secure unfavorable royalty arrangements or reduced functionality of our products, which in turn could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to manage our international operations could harm our results. A substantial portion of our revenues are generated from international sales. In addition, a significant portion of our operations consist of activities outside the United States. We now have research and development facilities in several domestic and international locations, and we currently have a direct sales force in approximately twenty countries around the world. We have a complicated corporate structure, and historically have had geographically dispersed operational controls. In particular, we rely on personnel in our international locations to properly account for and manage our international operations, which introduce inherent difficulties in management and control. Given this, we have and may continue to experience difficulty in efficiently and effectively managing our dispersed and complicated organization. As a result, our results of operations may suffer. In addition, we are subject to other risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the difficulty of staffing and managing an organization spread over various countries and continents; 16 Table of Contents • potentially reduced or less certain protection for intellectual property rights than is available under the laws of the United States; • longer payment cycles in some countries and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • restrictions on the expatriation of currency; • foreign taxes, export restrictions, tariffs, duties and other trade barriers; • changes in regulatory requirements and resulting costs; • differing cultures and business practices not consistent with our regulatory obligations in the United States; • compliance with various conflicting laws and regulations, including employment laws, and resulting costs; and • war, threats of war, terrorist activity or political or economic instability in certain parts of the world. One or more of these risks could harm our future research operations and international sales. If we are unable to manage these risks of doing business internationally, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Bundling arrangements or product give-aways by our competitors, including available, cost-free development technologies, may diminish demand for our products or pressure us to reduce our prices. Some of our competitors, particularly those that are primarily hardware vendors or platform providers, generate a substantially greater proportion of their sales in markets in which we do not directly compete. We believe a number of these competitors view sales of software application lifecycle technologies as important to enhancing the functionality and demand for their core products. As a result, these companies often bundle software products that compete with our offerings, with products such as application servers, work stations, personal computers, operating systems databases and information technology services. When competitors do so, the effective price for their software products that compete with our software development platform/solutions are often heavily discounted or offered at no charge. This has required us to reduce the price of our products and related services in certain circumstances, sometimes to no avail. Similarly, industry alliances and arrangements exist or may be formed in the future under which our competitors ally with companies in markets in which we do not compete to bundle products. These arrangements may also result in lower effective prices for our competitors’ products than for our products, putting pressure on our business and diminishing our competitive position. Our future success depends upon enhancing existing relationships and establishing new technology alliances. The market for enterprise software application development and deployment solutions is broad, and our products and solutions must integrate with a wide variety of technologies. To be successful, we must continue to establish and enhance strategic alliances with a wide variety of companies in the software development ecosystem. Many of these companies have competitive products or have stated a desire to move broadly into the software development lifecycle space. In addition, many of these companies are competitive with one another and approach partnering with us cautiously. This has made it difficult in some cases to establish or enhance desired relationships or achieve intended objectives. We currently have a number of important strategic alliances and technology relationships with industry leaders. Where we have established working relationships, our allies may choose to terminate their arrangements with us where no binding contractual arrangements exist. The failure to develop or maintain our strategic alliances and technology relationships or our allies’ decision to opt out of their arrangements with us may impede our ability to introduce new products or enter new markets, and consequently harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products may contain unknown defects that could result in a loss of revenues, decreased market acceptance, injury to our reputation and product liability claims. Software products occasionally contain errors or defects, especially when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. We cannot be certain that our products are currently or will be completely free of defects 17 Table of Contents and errors. We could lose revenue as a result of product defects or errors, including defects contained in third-party products that enable our products to work. In addition, the discovery of a defect or error in a new version or product may result in the following consequences, among others: • delayed shipping of the product; • delay in or failure to ever achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • damage to our reputation; • product liability claims; and • increased service and warranty costs. As we transition from selling individual IDE products towards selling enterprise-wide solutions, we also expect our products to become more critical to our customers. Thus, a defect or error in our products could result in a significant disruption to our customers’ businesses. In addition, as we transition to selling larger, more complex solutions, there is also the risk that our current products will not prove scalable without substantial effort. In addition, there could be a market perception that our products are too complex. If we are unable to develop products that are free of defects or errors or if our products are not able to scale across an enterprise or are perceived to be too complex to scale across an enterprise, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may subject us to costly litigation or settlement terms or limit the sales of our products. From time to time, we receive notices claiming that we have infringed a third-party’s patent or other intellectual property right. We expect that software products in general will increasingly be subject to these claims as the number of products and competitors increase, the functionality of products overlap and as the patenting of software functionality becomes more widespread. Further, the receipt of a notice alleging infringement may require in some situations a costly opinion of counsel be obtained to prevent an allegation of intentional infringement. Regardless of its merits, responding to any claim can be time consuming and costly and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. In the event of a successful claim against us, we may be required to pay significant monetary damages, including treble damages if we are held to have willfully infringed, discontinue the use and sale of the infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology and/or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that might not be offered or be available on acceptable terms. If a successful claim was made against us and we failed to commercially develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims or our insurance coverage for these types of claims may not be adequate. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose valuable assets. As a software company, our intellectual property rights are among our most valuable assets. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights, but these measures may provide only limited protection. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriations of our intellectual property rights. In addition, it may be possible for an unauthorized third-party to reverse-engineer or decompile our software products. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights, particularly in certain international markets, making misappropriation of our intellectual property more likely. Litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights, and such litigation can be time consuming and expensive. 18 Table of Contents Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In February 2007, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $200,000,000 in 2.75% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2012. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • require us to dedicate a portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; • make it difficult for us to incur additional debt or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • limit our ability to sell ourselves or engage in other strategic transactions; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; or • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. If we experience a decline in revenue due to any of the factors described in this section entitled “Risk Factors,” or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying amounts due on our indebtedness. Although the convertible senior notes mature in 2012, the holders of the convertible senior notes may require us to repurchase their notes prior to maturity under certain circumstances, including specified fundamental changes such as the sale of a majority of the voting power of the company. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of the convertible senior notes, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any other indebtedness that we may have outstanding at such time. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Conversion of the convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The terms of the convertible senior notes permit the holders to convert the notes into shares of our common stock. The convertible senior notes are convertible into our common stock initially at a conversion price of $6.38 per share, which would result in an aggregate of approximately 31.4 million shares of our common stock being issued upon conversion, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events, provided that the total number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion, as may be adjusted for fundamental changes or otherwise, may not exceed approximately 39.2 million shares. The conversion of some or all of the convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Each $1,000 of principal of the convertible senior notes is initially convertible into 156.86 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. However we may seek to obtain stockholder approval to settle conversions of the notes in cash and shares of common stock, which approval would require the vote of a majority of shares of our common stock at a stockholder meeting duly called and convened in accordance with our organizational documents, applicable law and the rules of the Nasdaq Global Market. In addition, holders may convert their convertible senior notes prior to maturity if: (1) the price of our common stock reaches $8.29 during specific periods of time, (2) specified corporate transactions occur or (3) the trading price of the notes falls below a certain threshold. As a result, although the convertible senior notes mature in 2012, the holders may require us to convert the notes prior to maturity. As of the date this Annual Report on Form 10-K was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, none of the conditions allowing holders of the notes to convert had occurred. 19 Table of Contents Under the terms of the 2.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012, events that we do not control may trigger conversion rights that, if exercised, may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Holders of our convertible senior notes due 2012 will have the right to require us to repurchase the notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change of Borland, including some types of change of control transactions. We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes in cash or to make the required repayment at such time or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, upon conversion of the notes, if we have received approval from our stockholders to settle conversions of the notes in cash and shares of our common stock, we will be required to make cash payments to the holders of the notes equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the notes being converted and the conversion value of those notes. Such payments could be significant, and we may not have sufficient funds to make them at such time. Our failure to repurchase the notes or pay cash in respect of conversions when required would result in an event of default. Our rights plan and our ability to issue additional preferred stock could harm the rights of our common stockholders. In October 2001, we adopted our stockholder rights plan and currently each share of our outstanding common stock is associated with one right. Each right entitles the registered stockholder to purchase 1/1,000 of a share of our Series D Junior Participating Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $80.00. The rights only become exercisable in certain limited circumstances following the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisition of or tender offers for 15% or more of our common stock. For a limited period of time following the announcement of any such acquisition or offer, the rights are redeemable by us at a price of $0.01 per right. If the rights are not redeemed, each right will then entitle the holder to purchase common stock having the value of twice the then-current exercise price. For a limited period of time after the exercisability of the rights, each right, at the discretion of our board of directors, may be exchanged for either 1/1,000 share of Series D Junior Participating Preferred Stock or one share of common stock. The rights expire on December 19, 2011. Pursuant to our restated certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 850,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences and rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions granted to or imposed upon any wholly unissued shares of undesignated preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without the consent of our stockholders. The preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to those of the holders of common stock. The issuance of Series D Junior Participating Preferred Stock or any preferred stock subsequently issued by our board of directors, under some circumstances, could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. For example, an issuance of shares of our preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock; • make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; • limit or eliminate any payments the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Specifically, some provisions may deter tender offers for shares of common stock, which may be attractive to stockholders, or deter purchases of large blocks of common stock, thereby limiting the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of common stock over the then-prevailing market prices. 20 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock by our board that could increase the number of outstanding shares and discourage a takeover attempt; • limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that our board is expressly authorized to amend our bylaws, or enact such other bylaws as in their judgment may be advisable; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, certain of our named executive officers and certain other executives have entered into change of control severance agreements, which were approved by our compensation committee. These agreements would likely increase the costs that an acquiror would face in purchasing us and may thereby act to discourage such a purchase. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 