ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A significant portion of the Company’s outstanding debt obligations will mature in December 2006. The Company has a significant working capital deficiency that raises substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The working capital deficit is a direct result of all of the Company’s North American debt ($179.3 million in principal as of December 31, 2005) maturing in December 2006. Management’s plans to address this uncertainty are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 and within the Liquidity and Capital Resources discussion of Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. However, there can be no assurance that management’s plans will be successful, and if unsuccessful, will cause the Company to default on its obligations. 9 Table of Contents The Company’s inability to pass along increases in pricing of raw materials to its customers could have a negative impact on the Company’s business. The Company’s operating results are dependent upon the availability and pricing of raw materials including, among others, steel, rubber, copper, packaging material, and other components that it purchases from third parties. Substantially all of the markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive and compete mainly on the basis of price. These competitive forces may not allow the Company to implement price increases for higher raw material costs within its core markets and as a result would adversely affect the operating results of the Company. The Company’s business strategies could be significantly disrupted if the Company lost members of its management team. The Company’s success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of its executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. The Company’s future performance will be dependent on its ability to retain and motivate them. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers or key personnel could prevent the Company from implementing its business strategies. The Company’s operating results could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations relates primarily to operations in foreign countries conducted through subsidiaries, primarily in Portugal. Exchange rate fluctuations impact the U.S. dollar value of reported earnings as well as the carrying value of the net assets related to these operations. The Company’s operating results could be adversely affected by weather conditions adverse to sales growth. The Company’s sales attributable to its water systems product line, mainly the well water accumulators, are susceptible to adverse weather conditions that hamper the ability of well drillers to drill residential and commercial underground water wells. Prolonged rainy spring seasons hamper the ability of well drillers to drill underground wells due to the size and weight of their well drilling rigs. In addition, extended periods of cold weather could hamper well drilling due to state regulations that prohibit the travel of the large well drilling rigs on state highways. Continued growth of the Company’s operating results are linked to customer acceptance of its planned new products. Within the last few years, the Company has introduced a series of new products which it feels will position the Company for future sales growth. The Company feels that customer acceptance of products such as the CoMet™, Odor Oxidizer hydrogen sulfide removal system, Top Down Boiler Mate and digital pressure controller are important to the Company. Should these sales not materialize, the Company may not achieve its expected future sales growth. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 10 Table of Contents 