Item 1A. Risk Factors Many of the risks discussed below have affected our business in the past, and many are likely to continue to do so. These risks may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows, or the market price of our Common Stock. Risks Related to Indebtedness, Financial Condition and Results of Operations There is substantial doubt concerning our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements contained in this Annual Report have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. However, substantial doubt exists concerning our ability to do so. The auditor’s opinion to our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006 notes the fact that we have incurred substantial losses to date and have, as of December 31, 2006, an accumulated deficit of $22.4 million. We have incurred losses in almost every fiscal year since we have been a public company. Our net loss applicable to common shareholders was $4.2 million in 2006, $6.5 million in 2005, and $3.5 million in 2004. The Company expects to incur additional losses for the first quarter of 2007. Management recognizes that under current conditions our current cash on hand and expected short term revenues from operations will not be adequate to fund our current operations. Currently, we are managing our cash accounts on a day-to-day basis and have deferred payments on trade payables which are otherwise due to vendors that supply component parts critical to producing the products we sell to our customers. Further deferrals of payments to these critical vendors could result in one or more of these vendors placing us on credit hold and not making further shipments to us until we have paid past due amounts. If this occurs and we are unable to cause such vendors to resume shipments before our on-hand inventory of those components is exhausted, we may be unable to fulfill customer orders for our products. The failure to meet customer orders in a timely fashion could cause us to lose customers or cause our customers to reduce their orders for our products. In either event, this could substantially reduce our revenues and exacerbate our liquidity challenges. We may not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the future, including our debts to suppliers and other trade payables which could cause such creditors to discontinue their extensions of credit to us. Our primary source of liquidity and capital resources has been from financing activities, and we can offer no assurances that we will be able to obtain the additional financing that will be necessary in order to continue our operations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition to further efforts to secure access to additional working capital, we also believe that cost containment and expense reductions are essential if we are to continue our current operations, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve sufficient cost reductions to allow us to do so. If we are unable to increase our revenues while reducing our costs, or if we are unable to obtain additional needed financing, we may be required to cease operations altogether. These circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of asset carrying amounts or the amount and classification of liabilities that might result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. We may be unable to make payment on a $1.6 million promissory note which is due and payable on April 28, 2007. Our U.S. companies have guaranteed a note payable by the Company with an outstanding principal balance of $1.6 million that is due April 28, 2007. The Company has the option to extend up to $500,000 of the principal amount due under the note to April 30, 2008. At December 31, 2006, remaining borrowing availability under our U.S. line of credit was $820,000. Any remaining availability under the U.S. line of credit when the note becomes due could be applied toward repayment of the note payable on April 28, 2007. However, we can give no assurances that the borrowing availability on the U.S. line of credit together with any other cash we are able to access at that time, if any, will be sufficient to make payment in full on the note payable or to make payment sufficient to exercise our option to extend the note. If we are unable to make payment in full or make payment sufficient to exercise our option to extend the note, we would be forced to obtain additional financing from a different lender or source. However, we can give no assurances that we will be able to obtain financing from another lender or source on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In such case, an event of default would occur. The U.S. line of credit has an outstanding balance of $4.4 million as of December 31, 2006. The note payable and U.S. line of credit are covered by a master security agreement with the same lender. Pursuant to terms of the master security agreement, an event of default on the note payable would cause an event of default on the U.S. line of credit and the current lender could cause all outstanding balances on the U.S. line of credit to become due and payable on April 28, 2007 as well. Any or all of these circumstances could require that we cease operations altogether. 16 Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial position, operations and ability to grow. As of December 31, 2006, our total debt of approximately $9.5 million consisted of long-term debt in the amount of $258,000, most of which is classified as current, and short-term debt of $9.2 million. Included in the long-term debt is $250,000 outstanding under an 8.0% convertible debenture held by a shareholder and director payable in full August 26, 2009. Included in the short-term debt is $7.6 million under our domestic and European revolving credit facilities and $1.6 million under a promissory note due and payable on April 28, 2007. Our domestic revolving credit facility, with an outstanding balance of $4.4 million as of December 31, 2006, is payable in full on June 30, 2008. Our European revolving credit facilities have outstanding balances of $2.6 million as of December 31, 2006 under agreements with a Swedish bank with expiration dates of March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2007 and an outstanding balance of $636,000 as of December 31, 2006 under an agreement with a German bank with an open-ended term. On or before the expiration dates, the Company expects to renew the credit agreements with the Swedish bank with agreements substantially similar in terms and conditions. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences in the future. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce amounts available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt than we do; • make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing that may be necessary in connection with our business; • make it more difficult for us to implement our business and growth strategies; and • cause us to have to pay higher interest rates on future borrowings. Some of our debt bears interest at variable rates. If interest rates increase, or if we incur additional debt, the potential adverse consequences, including those described above, may be intensified. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay planned expansion and capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity financing or restructure our debt. Some of our existing credit facilities contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur additional debt. Future cash requirements or restrictions on cash could adversely affect our financial position, and an event of default under our outstanding debt instruments could impair our ability to conduct business operations. The following items, among others, could require unexpected future cash payments, limit our ability to generate cash or restrict our use of cash: • triggering of certain payment obligations, or acceleration of payment obligations, under our revolving credit facilities or our outstanding convertible debentures; • triggering of redemption obligations under our outstanding convertible debentures; • costs associated with unanticipated litigation relating to our intellectual property or other matters; • taxes due upon the transfer of cash held in foreign locations; and • taxes assessed by local authorities where we conduct business. In the event we are unable to avoid an event of default under one or more of our existing credit facilities, it may be necessary or advisable to retire and terminate one or more of the facilities and pay all remaining balances borrowed. Any such payment would further limit our available cash and cash equivalents. Furthermore, it is unlikely we would have adequate resources available when necessary to avoid an event of default or if we do not have adequate time to retire the credit facilities. The consequences of an event of default under one or more of our credit facilities or other debt instruments may prevent us from continuing normal business operations. 17 The above cash requirements or restrictions could lead to an inadequate level of cash for operations or for capital requirements, which could have a material negative impact on our financial position and significantly harm our ability to operate the business. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and period over period depending upon numerous factors, including: (1) customer demand and market acceptance of our products and solutions; (2) new product introductions; (3) variations in product mix; (4) delivery due-date changes; and (5) other factors. We operate in a market characterized by long and occasionally erratic sales cycles. The time from first contact to order delivery may be a period of two years or longer in certain instances. Delivery schedules, as first established with the customer in this long cycle may change with little or no advance notice as the original delivery schedule draws near. Our business is sensitive to the spending patterns and funding of our customers, which, in turn, are subject to prevailing economic and governmental funding conditions and other factors beyond our control. Moreover, we derive sales primarily from significant orders from a limited number of customers. For that reason, a delay in delivery of our products in connection with a single order may significantly affect the timing of our recognition of sales between periods. Moreover, sales lost due to the cancellation of, or our inability to fill, an order in one period may not be necessarily made up by sales in any future period. Risks Related to Our Operations and Product Development A significant portion of our sales is derived from sales to a small number of customers. If we are not able to obtain new customers or repeat business from existing customers, our business could be seriously harmed. We sell our products to a limited and largely fixed set of customers and potential customers. In our transportation communications segment, we sell primarily to original equipment manufacturers and to end users such as municipalities, regional transportation districts, transit agencies, federal, state and local departments of transportation, and rental car agencies. The identity of the customers who generate the most significant portions of our sales may vary from year to year. In 2006, three customers accounted for 19.2% of our net sales, compared to three customers accounting for 22.8% of our net sales in 2005 and two major customers accounting for 22.9% in 2004. If any of our major customers stopped purchasing products from us, and we were not able to obtain new customers to replace the lost business, our business and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Many factors affect whether customers reduce or delay their investments in products such as those we offer, including decisions regarding spending levels and general economic conditions in the countries and specific markets where the customers are located. We depend on third parties to supply components we need to produce our products. Our products and solutions are dependent upon the availability of quality components that are procured from third-party suppliers. Reliance upon suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several risks, including the possibility of defective parts (which can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products), a shortage of components and reduced control over delivery schedules (which can adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies) and increases in component costs (which can adversely affect our profitability). As an example, in 2006, our European subsidiaries experienced shortages in the supply of aluminum extrusion materials, which are key components in our destination sign manufacturing process. This shortage, combined with other delivery planning difficulties, caused fulfillment and delivery of certain customer orders in our European market to be delayed. We have substantially resolved this issue, but cannot be certain it will not occur in the future, and to the extent it does occur, may result in lost sales opportunities in Europe, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have some single-sourced supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not readily or economically available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, and capacity or price considerations. If these sources are unable to provide timely and reliable supply, we could experience manufacturing interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies, adversely affecting our results of operations. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could adversely affect operating results. 18 Many of our customers rely, to some extent, on government funding, and that subjects us to risks associated with governmental budgeting and authorization processes. A majority of our sales address end customers having some degree of national, federal, regional, state, or local governmental-entity funding. These governmental-entity funding mechanisms are beyond our control and often are difficult to predict. Further, general budgetary authorizations and allocations for state, local, and federal agencies can change for a variety of reasons, including general economic conditions, and have a material adverse effect on us. For example, the TEA-21 legislation under which the funding for our transportation products business segment domestic sales are derived was subject to reauthorization in 2003, but was not replaced with new legislation, SAFETEA-LU, until August, 2005. In the interim period, federal funding was only available through short-term extensions of TEA-21. Underlying longer term funding uncertainties contribute to significant market disruption. In addition to federal funding to the public transit side of our domestic market, a majority of our customers rely on state and local funding. These tend to be affected by general economic conditions. For example, some transit operating authorities reduced service in 2004, 2005 and 2006 in response to the slow economy and uncertainties on the reauthorization of SAFETEA-LU. This can have a depressing effect on sales of our products. It is not possible to precisely quantify or forecast this type of impact. Any unfavorable change in any of these factors and considerations could have a material adverse effect upon us. We must continually improve our technology to remain competitive. Our industry is characterized by, and our business strategy is substantially based upon, continuing improvement in technology. This results in frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, and continual change in product price/performance characteristics. We must develop new technologies in our products and solutions in order to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to achieve or sustain the technological leadership that is necessary for success in our industry. In addition, our competitors may develop new technologies that give them a competitive advantage, and we may not be able to develop or obtain a right to use those or equal technologies at a reasonable cost, if at all, or to develop alternative solutions that enable us to compete effectively. A failure on our part to manage effectively the transitions of our product lines to new technologies on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, our business depends upon technology trends in our customers’ businesses. To the extent that we do not anticipate or address these technological changes, our business may be adversely impacted. We operate in several international locations and, in one case, with less than full ownership control. Not all countries embrace the full scope of the regulatory requirements placed on U.S. public companies. Operating under those inhibiting circumstances can make it difficult to assure that all of our internal controls are being followed as we would expect and detection of non-compliance may not be as timely as desired. We cannot assure you that any new products we develop will be accepted by customers. Even if we are able to continue to enhance our technology and offer improved products and solutions, we cannot assure you we will be able to deliver commercial quantities of new products in a timely manner or that our products will achieve market acceptance. Further, it is necessary for our products to adhere to generally accepted and frequently changing industry standards, which are subject to change in ways that are beyond our control. Risks Related to Human Resources and Employee Relations We may not be able to recruit or retain a qualified workforce. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain an effective management team, qualified engineering staff and a reliable workforce. Qualified personnel to fill these positions is in short supply from time to time. An inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Certain of our products contain technologies that must be developed and enhanced to meet the needs of our customers in securing, completing and fulfilling orders. This requires us to recruit and retain an engineering staff with the skills and experience necessary to develop and enhance the technologies specific to our products. Because of this technology-specific requirement, we may occasionally experience difficulties in recruiting qualified engineers. Our inability to recruit or retain qualified engineering resources may limit the number of revenue-generating projects we have in process at any one time and in turn may limit or prevent the expansion of our present operations. 19 Competition for qualified employees requires us to continually assess our compensation structure. Competition for qualified employees could require higher wages, resulting in higher labor cost. In addition, various types of employment related claims may arise from time to time. An adverse ruling in such instances could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Risks Related to Our International Operations There are numerous risks associated with international operations, which represent a significant part of our business. Our international operations generated approximately 50% of our sales in 2006. Our sales outside the United States were primarily in Europe (particularly the Nordic countries), South America, the Middle East, and Australia. The success and profitability of international operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, such as economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes upon foreign subsidiaries), and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which products are sold. Any unfavorable change in one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect upon us. Complying with foreign tax laws can be complicated, and we may incur unexpected tax obligations in some jurisdictions. We maintain cash deposits in foreign locations and many countries impose taxes or fees upon removal from the country of cash earned in that country. While we believe our tax positions in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate are proper and fully defensible, tax authorities in those jurisdictions may nevertheless assess taxes and render judgments against us. In such an event, we could be required to make unexpected cash payments in satisfaction of such assessments or judgments or incur additional expenses to defend our position. As described in Note 20 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary was assessed $1.5 million in Industrialized Products Taxes, a form of federal value-added tax in Brazil, and related penalties and fines in 2006. The assessment was the result of an audit performed by Brazil’s Federal Revenue Service in 2006 and varying interpretations of Brazil’s complex tax law by the FRS and the Company. Risks Related to Internal Controls Required reporting on internal control over financial reporting. In accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will be required to deliver our initial report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We are in the process of implementing our plan for complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These efforts could fail to be successful, which, in turn could cause investors to lose confidence in our internal control environment. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to defend successfully against claims of infringement against the intellectual property rights of others, and such defense could be costly. Third parties, including our competitors, individual inventors or others, may have patents or other proprietary rights that may cover technologies that are relevant to our business. Claims of infringement have been asserted against us in the past. Even if we believe a claim asserted against us is not valid, defending against the claim may be costly. Intellectual property litigation can be complex, protracted, and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Further, plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief and the measures of damages in intellectual property litigation are complex and often subjective or uncertain. In some cases, we may decide that it is not economically feasible to pursue a vigorous and protracted defense and decide, instead, to negotiate licenses or cross-licenses authorizing us to use a third party’s technology in our products or to abandon a product. If we are unable to defend successfully against litigation of this type, or to obtain and maintain licenses on favorable terms, we could be prevented from manufacturing or selling our products, which would cause severe disruptions to our operations. For these reasons, intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 20 Risks Related to Our Equity Securities and Convertible Debentures The public market for our Common Stock may be volatile, especially since market prices for technology stocks often have been unrelated to operating performance. We cannot assure you that an active trading market will be sustained or that the market price of our Common Stock will not decline. The market price of our Common Stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: • Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • Historical and anticipated operating results; • Announcements of new product or service offerings; • Technological innovations; • Competitive developments in the public transit industry; • Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • Conditions and trends in the public transit industry; • Funding initiatives and other legislative developments affecting the transit industry; • Adoption of new accounting standards affecting the technology industry or the public transit industry; and • General market and economic conditions and other factors. Further, the stock markets, and particularly the NASDAQ Capital Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies and have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market factors have and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate variations, international currency fluctuations, terrorist acts, military actions or war, may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Our preferred stock and convertible debentures have preferential rights over our Common Stock. We currently have outstanding shares of Series AAA Redeemable, Nonvoting, Convertible Preferred Stock, Series E Redeemable, Nonvoting, Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G Redeemable, Convertible Preferred Stock, Series H Redeemable, Convertible Preferred Stock, and Series I Redeemable, Convertible Preferred Stock as well as certain eight percent (8.0%) convertible debentures, all of which have rights in preference to holders of our Common Stock in connection with any liquidation of the Company. The aggregate liquidation preference is $890,000 for the Series AAA Preferred, $915,000 for the Series E Preferred, $1.9 million for the Series G Preferred, $270,000 for the Series H Preferred, and $520,000 for the Series I Preferred, in each case plus accrued but unpaid dividends, and the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding eight percent (8.0%) convertible debentures is $250,000. Holders of the Series AAA Preferred, Series E Preferred, Series G Preferred, Series H Preferred, and Series I Preferred are entitled to receive cumulative quarterly dividends at the rate of five percent (5.0%) per annum, seven percent (7.0%) per annum, eight percent (8.0%) per annum, eight percent (8.0%) per annum, and six percent (6.0%) per annum, respectively, on the liquidation value of those shares. Dividends on the Series G Preferred are payable in kind in additional shares of Series G Preferred and dividends on the Series H Preferred are payable in kind in additional shares of Series H Preferred. Dividends on the Series I Preferred are payable in kind in additional shares of Series I Preferred or in cash, at the option of the holder. The purchase agreements, pursuant to which we issued our outstanding eight percent (8.0%) convertible debentures, as well as our domestic senior credit facility, prohibit the payment of dividends to holders of our Common Stock. The holders of the debentures have the right to require us to redeem the debentures upon the occurrence of certain events, including certain changes in control of the Company or our failure to continue to have our stock listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market or another stock exchange. In such an event, the holders would have the right to require us to redeem the debentures for an amount equal to the principal amount plus an 18% annual yield on the principal amount through the date of redemption, and we might not have the ability to make the required redemption payments. The preferential rights of the holders of our convertible 21 debentures and preferred stock could substantially limit the amount, if any, that the holders of our Common Stock would receive upon any liquidation of the Company. Risks Related to Anti-Takeover Provisions Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and North Carolina law contain provisions that may make takeovers more difficult or limit the price third parties are willing to pay for our stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of shares of “blank check” preferred stock, which would have the designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board of directors. Accordingly, the board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval (but subject to applicable regulatory restrictions), to issue additional preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. Our board of directors could also use the issuance of preferred stock, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. In addition, our bylaws require that certain shareholder proposals, including proposals for the nomination of directors, be submitted within specified periods of time in advance of our annual shareholders’ meetings. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect corporate actions such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control of our company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock, and they may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. We are also subject to two North Carolina statutes that may have anti-takeover effects. The North Carolina Shareholder Protection Act generally requires, unless certain “fair price” and procedural requirements are satisfied, the affirmative vote of 95% of our voting shares to approve certain business combination transactions with an entity that is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 20% of our voting shares, or with one of our affiliates if that affiliate has previously been a beneficial owner of more than 20% of our voting shares. The North Carolina Control Share Acquisition Act, which applies to public companies that have substantial operations and significant shareholders in the state of North Carolina, eliminates the voting rights of shares acquired in transactions (referred to as “control share acquisitions”) that cause the acquiring person to own a number of our voting securities that exceeds certain threshold amounts, specifically, one-fifth, one-third and one-half of our total outstanding voting securities. There are certain exceptions. For example, this statute does not apply to shares that an acquiring person acquires directly from us. The holders of a majority of our outstanding voting stock (other than such acquiring person, our officers and our employee directors) may elect to restore voting rights that would be eliminated by this statute. If voting rights are restored to a shareholder that has made a control share acquisition and holds a majority of all voting power in the election of our directors, then our other shareholders may require us to redeem their shares at fair value. These statutes could discourage a third party from making a partial tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain a substantial position in our equity securities or seeking to obtain control of us. They also might limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock, and they may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. The adoption of our shareholder rights agreement may discourage third parties from making takeover offers, including takeover offers that might result in a premium being paid for shares of our common stock. Effective September 22, 2006, the Company entered into a shareholder rights agreement designed to prevent any potential acquirer from gaining control of the Company without fairly compensating the stockholders and to protect the Company from unfair or coercive takeover attempts. In furtherance of the shareholder rights agreement, the Board of Directors approved the declaration of a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of the Company’s common stock on the record date of October 9, 2006. Each of the rights, which are not currently exercisable, entitles the holder to purchase 1/1000th of a share of the Company’s Series D Junior Participating Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $5.00. In general, the rights will become exercisable only if any person or group of affiliated persons makes a public announcement that it has acquired 15% or more of the Company’s stock or that it intends to make or makes a tender offer or exchange offer for 15% or more of the Company’s stock. Following the announcement of any such acquisition or offer, the rights are redeemable by us at a price of $0.01 per right. The effect of this rights plan could prevent or deter a potential unsolicited takeover of us by causing substantial dilution of an acquirer of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. This could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. These factors could also reduce 22 the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of the common stock and result in the market price being lower than it might be without these provisions. Therefore, mergers and acquisitions of us that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. Provisions of our bylaws limit the ability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders and therefore could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company. On September 11, 2006, the Board of the Company voted to amend and restate the bylaws of the Company in their entirety. The Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company became effective on September 12, 2006. Under the amended and restated bylaws, special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Board or any shareholder or shareholders holding in the aggregate thirty-five percent (35%) of the voting power of all the shareholders. Prior to the amendment and restatement of the bylaws, special meetings of the shareholders could be called by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Board or any shareholder or shareholders holding in the aggregate ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all the shareholders. The effect of this provision of our Amended and Restated Bylaws could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring the Company or replacing members of the Board, even if the acquisition or the replacements would be beneficial to our shareholders. These factors could also reduce the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of the common stock and result in the market price being lower than it might be without these provisions. Risks Associated with Potential Growth We may not be able to obtain the financing we will need to implement our operating strategy. We cannot assure you that our revolving credit facilities and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our current business operations for the next 12 months, nor can we assure you that we will not require additional sources of financing to fund our operations. Additional financing may not be available to us on terms we consider acceptable, if available at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop next-generation products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Further, if we issue equity securities, holders of our Common Stock may experience dilution of their ownership percentage, and the new equity securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Common Stock. There are many risks associated with potential acquisitions. We intend to continue to evaluate potential acquisitions that we believe will enhance our existing business or enable us to grow. If we acquire other companies or product lines in the future, it may dilute the value of existing shareholders’ ownership. The impact of dilution may restrict our ability to consummate further acquisitions. Issuance of equity securities in connection with an acquisition may further restrict utilization of net operating loss carryforwards because of an annual limitation due to ownership changes under the Internal Revenue Code. We may also incur debt and losses related to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets if we acquire another company, and this could negatively impact our results of operations. We currently do not have any definitive agreements to acquire any company or business, and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisition in the future. Additional risks associated with acquisitions include the following: • It may be difficult to assimilate the operations and personnel of an acquired business into our own business; • Management information and accounting systems of an acquired business must be integrated into our current systems; • Our management must devote its attention to assimilating the acquired business, which diverts attention from other business concerns; • We may enter markets in which we have limited prior experience; and • We may lose key employees of an acquired business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 