Item 1A. Risk Factors Increased severity or frequency of accidents and other claims. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Self Insured-Claims,” potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe and occurrences are unpredictable. Landstar’s retained liability for individual commercial trucking claims varies depending on when such claims are incurred. For commercial trucking claims incurred prior to June 19, 2003 and subsequent to March 30, 2004, Landstar retains liability up to $5,000,000 per occurrence. For commercial trucking claims incurred from June 19, 2003 through March 30, 2004, Landstar retains liability up to $10,000,000 per occurrence. The Company also retains liability for each general liability claim up to $1,000,000, $250,000 for each workers’ compensation claim and $100,000 for each cargo claim. For cargo claims incurred prior to May 1, 2008, the Company retains cargo liability up to $250,000 per occurrence. The Company’s exposure to liability associated with accidents incurred by Truck Brokerage Carriers, rail intermodal carriers, air cargo carriers and ocean cargo carriers who haul freight on behalf of the Company is reduced by various factors including the extent to which they maintain their own insurance coverage. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, cargo or workers’ compensation claims or the unfavorable development of existing claims could have a material adverse effect on Landstar’s results of operations. Dependence on third party insurance companies. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Insurance Above Self-Insured Retention,” the Company is dependent on a limited number of third party insurance companies to provide insurance coverage in excess of its self-insured retention amounts. Historically, the Company has maintained insurance coverage for commercial trucking claims in excess of specific per occurrence limits, up to various maximum amounts, with a limited number of third party insurance companies. The premiums proposed by the third party insurance companies providing coverage for commercial trucking liability insurance above the Company’s self-insured retention amounts have varied dramatically. In an attempt to manage the significant fluctuations in the cost of these premiums required by the third party insurance companies, the Company has historically increased or decreased the level of its exposure to commercial trucking claims on a per occurrence basis. To the extent the third party insurance companies increase their proposed premiums for coverage of commercial trucking liability claims, the Company may increase its exposure or reduce the maximum amount of coverage in aggregate or on a per occurrence basis. However, to the extent the third party insurance companies reduce their premiums proposed for coverage of commercial trucking claims, the Company may reduce its exposure or increase the maximum amount of coverage in aggregate or on a per occurrence basis. Dependence on independent commission sales agents. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Agent Network,” the Company markets its services primarily through independent commission sales agents, and currently has a network of over 1,400 agent locations. During 2008, 484 agents generated revenue for Landstar of at least $1 million each, or approximately 90% of Landstar’s consolidated revenue and one agent generated approximately $246,000,000, or 9%, of Landstar’s total revenue. Although the Company competes with motor carriers and other third parties for the services of these independent commission sales agents, Landstar has historically experienced very limited agent turnover among its larger-volume agents. However, Landstar’s contracts with its agents are typically terminable upon 11 Table of Contents 10 to 30 days notice by either party and generally restrict the ability of a former agent to compete with Landstar for a specific period of time following any such termination. The loss of some of the Company’s key agents or a significant decrease in volume generated by Landstar’s larger agents could have a material adverse effect on Landstar’s results of operations if not replaced with other volumes. Dependence on third party capacity providers. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Transportation Capacity,” Landstar does not own trucks or other transportation equipment (other than trailing equipment) and relies on third party capacity providers, including BCO Independent Contractors, Truck Brokerage Carriers, railroads and air and ocean cargo carriers, to transport freight for its customers. The Company competes with motor carriers and other third parties for the services of BCO Independent Contractors and other third party capacity providers. A significant decrease in available capacity provided by either the Company’s BCO Independent Contractors or other third party capacity providers could have a material adverse effect on Landstar’s results of operations. Decreased demand for transportation services. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical financial results as a result of slowdowns in economic activity. A slowdown in economic activity or a downturn in the Company’s customers’ business cycles causing a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers could have a material adverse effect on Landstar’s results of operations. Substantial industry competition. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Competition,” Landstar competes primarily in the transportation and logistics services industry. The transportation and logistics services industry is extremely competitive and fragmented. Landstar competes primarily with truckload carriers, intermodal transportation service providers, railroads, less-than-truckload carriers, third party broker carriers and other non-asset based transportation and logistics service providers. Management believes that competition for the freight transported by the Company is based primarily on service and efficiency and, to a lesser degree, on freight rates alone. Historically, competition has created downward pressure on freight rates. In addition, many large shippers are using 3PLs to outsource the management and coordination of their transportation needs rather than directly arranging for transportation services with carriers, such as the Company. Usage by large shippers of 3PLs often provide carriers, such as the Company, with a less direct relationship with the shipper and, as a result, may increase pressure on freight rates while making it more difficult for the Company to compete primarily based on service and efficiency. A decrease in freight rates could have a material adverse effect on Landstar’s results of operations. Dependence on key personnel. The Company is dependent on the services of certain of its executive officers. The Company believes it has an experienced and highly qualified management group and the loss of the services of certain of the Company’s executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Disruptions or failures in the Company’s computer systems. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Technology,” the Company’s information technology systems used in connection with its operations are located in Jacksonville, Florida and to a lesser extent in Rockford, Illinois. Landstar relies in the regular course of its business on the proper operation of its information technology systems to link its extensive network of customers, agents and third party capacity providers, including its BCO Independent Contractors. Any significant disruption or failure of its technology systems could significantly disrupt the Company’s operations and impose significant costs on the Company. Potential changes in fuel taxes. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels. The Company cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes applicable to the transportation services provided by the Company will be enacted and, if enacted, whether or not the Company’s Truck Brokerage Carriers would attempt to pass the increase on to the Company or if the Company will be able to reflect this potential increased cost of capacity, if any, in prices to customers. Any such increase in fuel taxes, without a corresponding increase in price to the customer, could have a material adverse effect on Landstar’s results of operations. Moreover, competition from other transportation service companies, including those that provide non-trucking modes of transportation and intermodal transportation would likely increase if state or federal taxes on fuel were to increase without a corresponding increase in taxes imposed upon other modes of transportation. 12 Table of Contents Status of independent contractors. From time to time, various legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced at the federal or state levels to change the status of independent contractors’ classification to employees for either employment tax purposes (withholding, social security, Medicare and unemployment taxes) or other benefits available to employees. Currently, most individuals are classified as employees or independent contractors for employment tax purposes based on 20 “common-law” factors rather than any definition found in the Internal Revenue Code or Internal Revenue Service regulations. In addition, under Section 530 of the Revenue Act of 1978, taxpayers that meet certain criteria may treat an individual as an independent contractor for employment tax purposes if they have been audited without being told to treat similarly situated workers as employees, if they have received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or a court decision affirming their treatment, or if they are following a long-standing recognized practice. The Company classifies all of its BCO Independent Contractors and independent commission sales agents as independent contractors for all purposes, including employment tax and employee benefit purposes. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial, or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change the employee/independent contractor classification of BCO Independent Contractors or independent commission sales agents currently doing business with the Company. Although management believes that there are no proposals currently pending that would change the employee/independent contractor classification of BCO Independent Contractors or independent commission sales agents currently doing business with the Company, the costs associated with potential changes, if any, with respect to these BCO Independent Contractor and independent commission sales agent classifications could have a material adverse effect on Landstar’s results of operations, if Landstar were unable to reflect them in its fee arrangements with the BCO Independent Contractors or independent commission sales agents or in the prices charged to its customers. Regulatory and legislative changes. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Regulation,” certain of the Operating Subsidiaries are motor carriers and/or property brokers authorized to arrange for transportation services by motor carriers which are regulated by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation, and by various state agencies. Certain of the Operating Subsidiaries are licensed as ocean transportation intermediaries by the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission as non-vessel-operating common carriers and/or as ocean freight forwarders. The Company’s air transportation activities in the United States are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation as an indirect air carrier. The Company is also subject to regulations and requirements relating to safety and security promulgated by, among others, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security through the Bureau of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Transportation Security Administration, the Canada Border Services Agency and various state and local agencies and port authorities. The transportation industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes (such as increasingly stringent environmental and/or safety/security regulations or limits on vehicle weight and size) that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload or other transportation or logistics services. Any such regulatory or legislative changes could have a material adverse effect on Landstar’s results of operations. Catastrophic loss of a Company facility. The Company faces the risk of a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of its facilities located in Jacksonville, Florida and Rockford, Illinois due to hurricanes, flooding, tornados or other weather conditions or natural disasters, terrorist attack or otherwise. The Company’s corporate headquarters and approximately two-thirds of the Company’s employees are located in its Jacksonville, Florida facility and a smaller portion of the Company’s operations is located in its Rockford, Illinois facility. In particular, a Category 3, 4 or 5 hurricane that impacts the Jacksonville, Florida metropolitan area or a tornado that strikes the Rockford, Illinois area could significantly disrupt the Company’s operations and impose significant costs on the Company. Although the Company maintains insurance covering its facilities, including business interruption insurance, the Company’s insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses that may be incurred in the event of a catastrophic loss of either the Jacksonville, Florida or Rockford, Illinois facility. In addition, such 13 Table of Contents insurance, including business interruption insurance, could in the future become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Concentrations of credit risk in key customers. Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk include accounts receivable from trade customers. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of the financial condition of its customers and an allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained as required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. During 2008, the Company experienced a higher level of customer bad debt expense than experienced in the previous five years. Credit risk with respect to the Company’s accounts receivable historically has been broadly diversified due to the large number of entities comprising the Company’s customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographical regions. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of Company revenue for the fiscal year period ended December 27, 2008 and no single customer accounted for more than 10% of the gross accounts receivable balance at December 27, 2008. It should be noted, however, that revenue from customers in the automotive sector represented in the aggregate approximately 7% of the Company’s revenue for the 2008 fiscal year period. The Company estimates that receivable balances relating to customers with a significant concentration of their business in the automotive sector represented approximately 6% to 8% of gross accounts receivable at December 27, 2008. The financial condition of the U.S. domestic automotive industry may be significantly adversely affected by the availability of credit to U.S. consumers and the overall financial condition of the U.S. economy, both of which have recently weakened. A significant deterioration in the financial condition or operations of the Company’s customers within the automotive sector, including the larger U.S. domestic automobile manufacturers and their vendors, suppliers and other service providers, or in the Company’s non-automotive sector customer accounts, could negatively impact the collectability of trade accounts receivable due from these customers, which could result in an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results in a given quarter or year. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 