Item 1A. Risk Factors Increased severity or frequency of accidents and other claims. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Self-Insured Claims,” potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe and occurrences are unpredictable. For commercial trucking claims, Landstar retains liability up to $5,000,000 per occurrence. The Company also retains liability for each general liability claim up to $1,000,000, $250,000 for each workers’ compensation claim and up to $250,000 for each cargo claim. The Company’s exposure to liability associated with accidents incurred by Truck Brokerage Carriers, rail intermodal carriers, air cargo carriers and ocean cargo carriers who transport freight on behalf of the Company is reduced by various factors including the extent to which they maintain their own insurance coverage. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, cargo claims or workers’ compensation claims or the unfavorable development of existing claims could be expected to materially adversely affect Landstar’s results of operations, particularly given the Company’s relatively high self-insured retention on commercial trucking claims. 11 Dependence on third party insurance companies. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations —Self-Insured Claims,” the Company is dependent on a limited number of third party insurance companies to provide insurance coverage in excess of its self-insured retention amounts. Historically, the Company has maintained insurance coverage for commercial trucking claims in excess of specific per occurrence limits, up to various maximum amounts, with a limited number of third party insurance companies. In an attempt to manage the cost of insurance and claims, the Company has historically increased or decreased the level of its financial exposure to commercial trucking claims on a per occurrence basis by increasing or decreasing its level of self-insured retention based on the estimated cost differential between proposed premiums from third-party insurance companies and historical losses experienced by the Company at various levels of self-insured retention. To the extent that the third party insurance companies propose increases to their premiums for coverage of commercial trucking claims, the Company may pay such increased premiums or increase its financial exposure on an aggregate or per occurrence basis, including by increasing the amount of its self-insured retention. However, to the extent the third party insurance companies propose reduced premiums for coverage of commercial trucking claims, the Company may reduce its financial exposure on an aggregate or per occurrence basis, including by decreasing the amount of its self-insured retention. In addition, no assurance can be given that insurance coverage from third party insurers for claims in excess of its current $5 million self-insured retention will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms. Dependence on independent commission sales agents. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Agent Network,” the Company markets its services primarily through independent commission sales agents. During 2011, 504 agents generated revenue for Landstar of at least $1 million each (the “Million Dollar Agents”), or approximately 91% of Landstar’s consolidated revenue. Landstar competes with motor carriers and other third parties for the services of these independent commission sales agents. Landstar has historically experienced very limited agent turnover among its Million Dollar Agents. There can be no assurances, however, that Landstar will continue to experience very limited turnover of its Million Dollar Agents in the future. Landstar’s contracts with its agents, including its Million Dollar Agents, are typically terminable without cause upon 10 to 30 days’ notice by either party and generally contain significant but not unqualified non-compete provisions limiting the ability of a former agent to compete with Landstar for a specified period of time post-termination, and other restrictive covenants. The loss of some of the Company’s Million Dollar Agents and/or a significant decrease in volume generated by other Million Dollar Agents could have a material adverse effect on Landstar, including its results of operations and revenue. Dependence on third party capacity providers. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Transportation Capacity,” Landstar does not own trucks or other transportation equipment (other than trailing equipment) and relies on third party capacity providers, including BCO Independent Contractors, Truck Brokerage Carriers, railroads and air and ocean cargo carriers, to transport freight for its customers. The Company competes with motor carriers and other third parties for the services of BCO Independent Contractors and other third party capacity providers. The market for qualified truck owner-operators is very competitive among motor carriers and no assurances can be given that the Company will be able to maintain or expand the number of BCO Independent Contractors. A significant decrease in available capacity provided by either the Company’s BCO Independent Contractors or other third party capacity providers could have a material adverse effect on Landstar, including its results of operations and revenue. 12 Decreased demand for transportation services. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical financial results as a result of slowdowns in economic activity, the business cycles of customers, price increases by capacity providers and other economic factors beyond Landstar’s control. The Company’s third party capacity providers other than BCO Independent Contractors can be expected to charge higher prices to cover increased operating expenses, such as any increases in the cost of fuel, and the Company’s operating income may decline if it is unable to pass through to its customers the full amount of such higher transportation costs. If a slowdown in economic activity or a downturn in the Company’s customers’ business cycles cause a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers, the Company’s operating results could be materially adversely affected. Substantial industry competition. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Competition,” Landstar competes primarily in the transportation and logistics services industry. This industry is extremely competitive and fragmented. Landstar competes primarily with truckload carriers, intermodal transportation service providers, railroads, less-than-truckload carriers, third party logistics companies and other non-asset based transportation and logistics service providers. Management believes that competition for the freight transported by the Company is based on service, efficiency and freight rates, which are influenced significantly by the economic environment, particularly the amount of available transportation capacity and freight demand. Historically, competition has created downward pressure on freight rates. In addition, many large shippers are using third party logistics providers (“3PLs”) other than the Company to outsource the management and coordination of their transportation needs rather than directly arranging for transportation services with carriers. As noted above, there were 10 transportation service providers, including 3PLs, included in the Company’s top 25 customers for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Usage by large shippers of 3PLs often provides carriers, such as the Company, with a less direct relationship with the shipper and, as a result, may increase pressure on freight rates while making it more difficult for the Company to compete primarily based on service and efficiency. A decrease in freight rates could have a material adverse effect on Landstar, including its revenue and operating income. Disruptions or failures in the Company’s computer systems. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Technology,” the Company’s information technology systems used in connection with its operations are located in Jacksonville, Florida and to a lesser extent in Rockford, Illinois and Southfield, Michigan. In addition, the Company utilizes several third-party data centers throughout the U.S. Landstar relies in the regular course of its business on the proper operation of its information technology systems to link its extensive network of customers, agents and third party capacity providers, including its BCO Independent Contractors. Although the Company has redundant systems for its critical operations, any significant disruption or failure of its technology systems or those of third-party data centers on which it relies could significantly disrupt the Company’s operations and impose significant costs on the Company. Dependence on key vendors. As described above under “Dependence on third party insurance companies” and “Disruptions or failures in the Company’s computer systems,” the Company is dependent on certain vendors, including third party insurance companies, third party data center providers, third party information technology application providers and third party payment system providers. Any inability to negotiate satisfactory terms with one of these key vendors or any other significant disruption to or termination of a relationship with one of these key vendors could disrupt the Company’s operations and impose significant costs on the Company. 13 Potential changes in fuel taxes. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels. The Company cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes applicable to the transportation services provided by the Company will be enacted and, if enacted, whether or not the Company’s Truck Brokerage Carriers would attempt to pass the increase on to the Company or if the Company will be able to reflect this potential increased cost of capacity, if any, in prices to customers. Any such increase in fuel taxes, without a corresponding increase in price to the customer, could have a material adverse effect on Landstar, including its results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, competition from other transportation service companies including those that provide non-trucking modes of transportation and intermodal transportation would likely increase if state or federal taxes on fuel were to increase without a corresponding increase in taxes imposed upon other modes of transportation. Status of independent contractors. From time to time, various legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced at the federal or state levels to change the status of independent contractors’ classification to employees for either employment tax purposes (withholding, social security, Medicare and unemployment taxes) or other benefits available to employees. Currently, most individuals are classified as employees or independent contractors for employment tax purposes based on 20 “common-law” factors rather than any definition found in the Internal Revenue Code or Internal Revenue Service regulations. In addition, under Section 530 of the Revenue Act of 1978, taxpayers that meet certain criteria may treat an individual as an independent contractor for employment tax purposes if they have been audited without being told to treat similarly situated workers as employees, if they have received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or a court decision affirming their treatment, or if they are following a long-standing recognized practice. The Company classifies all of its BCO Independent Contractors and independent commission sales agents as independent contractors for all purposes, including employment tax and employee benefits. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial, or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change the employee/independent contractor classification of BCO Independent Contractors or independent commission sales agents doing business with the Company. Although management believes that there are no proposals currently pending that would significantly change the employee/independent contractor classification of BCO Independent Contractors or independent commission sales agents currently doing business with the Company, the costs associated with potential changes, if any, with respect to these BCO Independent Contractor and independent commission sales agent classifications could have a material adverse effect on Landstar, including its results of operations and financial condition if Landstar were unable to pass through to its customers the full amount of such higher transportation costs. Regulatory and legislative changes. As noted above in Item 1, “Business — Factors Significant to the Company’s Operations — Regulation,” certain of the Operating Subsidiaries are motor carriers and/or property brokers authorized to arrange for transportation services by motor carriers which are regulated by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation, and by various state agencies. Certain of the Operating Subsidiaries are licensed as ocean transportation intermediaries by the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission as non-vessel-operating common carriers and/or as ocean freight forwarders. The Company’s air transportation activities in the United States are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation as an indirect air carrier. The Company is also subject to regulations and requirements relating to safety and security promulgated by, among others, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security through the Bureau of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Transportation Security Administration, the Canada Border Services Agency and various state and local agencies and port authorities. The transportation industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes (such as increasingly stringent environmental, climate change and/or safety/security regulations or limits on vehicle weight and size) that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload or other transportation or logistics services. 14 In December 2010, the FMCSA initiated its Compliance Safety Accountability (CSA) motor carrier oversight program (formerly Comprehensive Safety Analysis 2010). The Company believes the intent is to improve regulatory oversight of motor carriers and commercial drivers using a safety measurement system methodology that is fundamentally different from the methodology that the FMCSA had historically relied upon. The FMCSA is attempting to implement changes to the hours of service regulations which govern the work hours of commercial drivers and is consistently proposing regulatory changes that affect the operation of commercial motor carriers across the United States. It is difficult to predict which and in what form CSA or any other regulations may be implemented, modified or enforced and what impact any such regulation may have on motor carrier operations or the aggregate number of trucks that provide hauling capacity to the Company. In addition, recent focus on climate change and related environmental matters has led to efforts by federal and local governmental agencies to support legislation and regulations to limit the amount of carbon emissions, including emissions created by diesel engines utilized in tractors operated by the Company’s BCO Independent Contractors and Truck Brokerage Carriers. Moreover, federal and state governmental agencies, such as efforts by the California Air Resources Board, may also focus on regulation in relation to trailing equipment specifications in an effort to achieve, among other things, lower carbon emissions. Increased regulation on tractor or trailing equipment specifications, including emissions created by diesel engines, could create substantial costs on the Company and the Company’s third-party capacity providers and, in turn, increase the cost of purchased transportation to the Company. An increase in the costs to purchase, lease or maintain trailing equipment or in purchased transportation cost caused by new regulations without a corresponding increase in price to the customer could have a material adverse effect on Landstar, including its results of operations and financial condition. Catastrophic loss of a Company facility. The Company faces the risk of a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of its facilities located in Jacksonville, Florida, Rockford, Illinois and Southfield, Michigan due to hurricanes, flooding, tornados, other weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or otherwise. The Company’s corporate headquarters and approximately two-thirds of the Company’s employees are located in its Jacksonville, Florida facility. In particular, a significant hurricane that impacts the Jacksonville, Florida metropolitan area could significantly disrupt the Company’s operations and impose significant costs on the Company. Although the Company maintains insurance covering its facilities, including business interruption insurance, the Company’s insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses that may be incurred in the event of a catastrophic loss of one of the Company’s facilities. In addition, such insurance, including business interruption insurance, could in the future become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Acquired businesses. In the Company’s 2009 fiscal third quarter, the Company completed the acquisitions of (i) National Logistics Management Co., together with a limited liability company and certain corporate subsidiaries and affiliates, now collectively known as LSCS and (ii) A3 Integration, LLC, now known as LSCSLLC, through A3i Acquisition LLC (“A3i Acquisition”) an entity in which the Company owned 100% of the non-voting, preferred interests and, from the date of acquisition to January 2011, 75% of the voting, common equity interests. LSCS purchased the remaining 25% of the voting, common equity interests in A3i Acquisition in January 2011. These two acquisitions are referred to herein collectively as the “2009 Acquisitions.” LSCS’s business is heavily dependent on the automotive industry which has been very volatile in the past few years. As of the time of its acquisition by the Company, LSCSLLC was a startup company with no customers under contract. LSCSLLC licenses its principal software technology from an unaffiliated third party. The Company’s strategic initiatives of the 2009 Acquisitions are to increase freight transportation opportunities of the Company by identifying and engaging agents and customers to utilize LSCSLLC’s supply chain solutions technology. The Company makes no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully achieve its strategic initiatives as it relates to the 2009 Acquisitions. The two acquired entities are considered one reporting unit as it relates to business valuation. As it relates to goodwill recorded upon the acquisition of these companies in July 2009, should the automotive industry experience a significant downturn and should the Company fail to add customers 15 to the technology platform acquired with the start-up company, the Company could determine that its goodwill is impaired in the future. The Company will continue to monitor the economic environment and test for impairment of goodwill as necessary. Intellectual property. The Company uses both internally developed and purchased technology in conducting its business. Whether internally developed or purchased, it is possible that the use of these technologies could be claimed to infringe upon or violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. In the event that a claim is made against the Company by a third party for the infringement of intellectual property rights, any settlement or adverse judgment against the Company either in the form of increased costs of licensing or a cease and desist order in using the technology could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and its results of operations. Doing business with the federal government. The Company must comply with and is affected by laws and regulations relating to doing business with the federal government. In addition, U.S. government agencies, including various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate government contractors like the Company. Government contractors may also be subject to investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice as a result of or in connection with allegations made by third parties. In connection with an audit or investigation by a U.S. government agency or the U.S. Department of Justice, the Government may allege violations of specific laws and regulations by the Company or those doing business with the Company. The Government may also seek remedies against the Company, such as fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, or suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government, any of which could cause the Company to suffer serious reputational harm and other adverse consequences. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 