Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Standard Management and our businesses. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or otherwise, may also impair our business operations or the trading of our common stock. If any of the risks described below or such other risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents We have suffered substantial losses, and may suffer losses in the future. Standard Management Corporation, has suffered substantial losses from continuing operations of $7.7 million in 2006, $12.6 million in 2005, and $14.1 million in 2004. Net losses may continue until we generate significant revenues through acquisitions and organic growth primarily through Universal Healthcare Company, LLC. We cannot assure you that will be able to operate our business profitably. Our future profitability will depend on several factors, including: • our ability to identify and acquire appropriately priced and profitable businesses that provide cash flow and synergies to our current business; • our ability to execute a planned strategy that will provide for cash flow from operations which will fund growth and service debt; and • our ability to access reasonably priced capital that will provide long-term flexibility for the Company. Unless we receive a significant cash infusion or significantly increase cash flow from operations, we may not have sufficient cash to meet our cash requirements at some point during 2007. Our pharmacy business alone has not generated sufficient revenues to support our operations and service our debt obligations. We implemented a growth plan, subsequent to the sale of our financial services business in June 2005, focused on acquiring profitable existing businesses to increase our revenues and cash flows. The funding of this growth plan and our ability to meet our working capital and other cash requirements generally, depend on, among other things, current cash and cash equivalents and proceeds from outside financing activities. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $600,000 in cash and cash equivalents. Nevertheless, based on current estimates of cash flow, management believes that, absent significant additional cash infusion or significantly increased cash flow from operations, at some point during 2007, we may not have sufficient cash to meet our cash requirements. Management is currently negotiating a series of transactions, some through UHCC, it believes would alleviate the potential liquidity shortfall. There can be no assurance, however, that outside financing activities will generate sufficient net proceeds or that the other initiatives currently being negotiated by management can be consummated in full or at sufficient levels to provide us with sufficient cash to meet our cash requirements. Our independent auditors have expressed doubt regarding the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. In their report dated April 20, 2007 our independent auditors stated that our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were prepared assuming the Company would continue as a going concern. The auditors expressed “substantial doubt” about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern based on a lack of liquidity combined with recurring losses from continuing operations. The fact that we have received this “going concern opinion” from our auditors may make it more difficult for us to raise capital on favorable terms and could hinder, to some extent, our operations and acquisition program. We will require additional financing, which may be difficult to obtain. Any such financing in the form of debt will contain restrictive covenants and will require us to utilize cash to service it. Our business requires additional cash for operations and for acquisitions. As a result, we will likely need to seek substantial capital, which we may do through public or private equity or debt financing. In addition to seeking equity financing for both Standard Management and UHCC, we are currently negotiating with various potential lenders to provide senior debt financing. There can be no assurance that we can reach agreement with any lenders for such financing. The terms of such indebtedness would likely require us to meet certain financial tests and comply with certain reporting, affirmative and negative covenants. If we obtain such debt financing, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations would be dedicated to debt service requirements. 7 Table of Contents We are subject to various risks relating to our acquisition strategy. A significant component of our growth strategy contemplates our making selected acquisitions that will help expand our pharmacy offerings. Acquisitions involve inherent uncertainties. These uncertainties include the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition, the ability to integrate the acquired businesses into a larger organization and the availability of management resources to oversee the operations of these businesses. The successful integration of acquired businesses will require, among others: • consolidation of financial functions and elimination of redundancies; • achievement of purchasing efficiencies; • hire company executives, as needed; • the integration of key personnel; and • maintenance and growth of existing business. We have procedures in place to conduct detailed due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates for compliance with healthcare laws and to conform the practices of acquired businesses to our standards and applicable laws, but there can be no assurance that our procedures will detect all potential problems. If such procedures fail, we may incur liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. We cannot insure that an acquisition will not have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Our profitability and ability to conduct business could be negatively impacted by a change in our relationships with our largest institutional clients. A large portion of the present and future growth of our institutional pharmacy business currently is contingent upon our ability to acquire and retain institutional care facilities. We are presently attempting to expand the number of these contracts. The financial condition and profitability of our institutional clients can impact our profitability and opportunities for future growth. In addition, although we believe our current relationships with our institutional clients are strong, the loss of key institutional clients would materially affect the operation of our business. We face considerable competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment. The institutional pharmacy industry is dominated by three companies, which together control approximately 65% of the market. If we are unable to compete with our competition due to our size, failure to develop innovative distribution methods or failure to satisfy our customers, our financial results will be immediately and significantly affected. We are subject to significant governmental regulation, and changes in such regulation could have a substantial impact on our profitability. We are subject to substantial regulations at both the state and federal levels regarding payment or reimbursement for pharmacy services, financial relationships with our clients and manufacturers of pharmaceuticals, and licensure and certification of our operations, and changes in these regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our profitability as more fully described below. 8 Table of Contents We are dependent on payment or reimbursement from government reimbursement programs, principally Medicare and Medicaid, and the constant changes in the government reimbursement programs pose substantial risk to our results of operations. The provision of pharmaceuticals and pharmacy benefits is a highly dynamic and evolving business that is tied closely to changes in government reimbursement programs at both the state and federal levels and is in a constant state of flux. Government sponsored programs include Medicaid and, to a lesser extent, Medicare. Our remaining billings are currently paid or reimbursed by individual residents, long-term care facilities and other third-party payors, including private insurers. A portion of these revenues are indirectly dependent on government programs. We anticipate that direct reimbursement from government sponsored programs will become a material portion of our pharmacy billings. Many state Medicaid programs use the “average wholesale price” reimbursement methodology (“AWP”) and the “maximum allowable costs” reimbursement methodology (“MAC”), but many states, including states in which we operate or may operate, have indicated an intention to discontinue or modify these payment methodologies, and such changes may have a material and adverse effect on our profitability. Currently, virtually all of our contracts with major facility customers use these methodologies as a basis for calculating the prices charged for drugs ordered through our pharmacy. In the event state reimbursement programs decide to use alternative methods for calculating these prices, our reimbursement may suffer. If we or our client institutions fail to comply with Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement regulations, our revenue could be reduced, we could be subject to penalties and we could lose our eligibility to participate in these programs. The Medicaid and Medicare programs are highly regulated. The failure, even if inadvertent, by either us or our client institutions to comply with applicable reimbursement regulations could adversely affect reimbursement under these programs and our or our clients’ ability to continue to participate in these programs. In addition, our failure to comply with these regulations could subject us and our clients to allegations of filing false claims to the governmental reimbursement programs, which could subject us to substantial financial damages and exclusion from the governmental reimbursement programs. If we fail to comply with licensure requirements, fraud and abuse laws, or other applicable laws, we may need to curtail operations, and we could be subject to significant penalties. Our pharmacies are required to be licensed in the states in which they are located or do business. While we continually monitor the effects of regulatory activity on our operations and believe we currently have all necessary pharmacy licenses, the failure to obtain or renew any required regulatory approvals or licenses could adversely affect the continued operation of the business. The long-term care facilities that contract for our services are also subject to federal, state and local regulations and are required to be licensed in the states in which they are located. The failure by these long-term care facilities to comply with these or future regulations or to obtain or renew any required licenses could result in our inability to provide pharmacy services to these facilities and their residents. We are also subject to federal and state laws that prohibit some types of direct and indirect payments between healthcare providers. These laws, commonly known as the fraud and abuse laws, prohibit payments or any other remuneration intended to induce or encourage the referral of items or services payable by Medicare or Medicaid, including prescription drugs. For example, payment by pharmaceutical manufacturers of access or performance rebates to institutional pharmacies that are designed to prefer, protect, or maintain that manufacturer’s product selection by the pharmacy or to increase the volume of that manufacturer’s products that are dispensed by the pharmacy under its formulary are currently under scrutiny and may violate the fraud and abuse laws. Violation of these laws can result in loss of licensure, civil and criminal penalties, and exclusion from the Medicaid, Medicare and other federal and state healthcare programs. 9 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with federal or state health care privacy standards could subject us to civil and criminal liability. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) requires us to comply with the electronic transaction, privacy and security standards relating to the health care information of individuals who receive drugs and pharmaceuticals through our operations. Although we have taken and intend to continue to take all steps necessary to ensure that we comply with all HIPAA standards, if we fail to comply with the HIPAA regulations, we could suffer significant civil and criminal penalties. We may also become subject to various state legislative and regulatory privacy initiatives that will restrict the use of private medical records, and, if these regulations are implemented, we may incur additional expense and may be required to change certain of our business practices. We are also subject to other state and federal laws that govern the distribution of pharmaceuticals, the enforcement of which could have a material and adverse effect on our profitability. We are also subject to the risk of changes in various local, state, federal and international laws relating to pharmaceuticals, which include the operating and security standards of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, the United States Food and Drug Administration, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies. These changes may affect our operations, including distribution of prescription pharmaceuticals (including certain controlled substances), operation of pharmacies and packaging of pharmaceuticals. A review of our business by regulatory authorities may result in determinations that could adversely affect the operations of the business. We are also subject to cost controls imposed by non-government reimbursement program payors and pricing changes from our suppliers that could have a material and adverse effect on our profitability. Cost controls imposed by other third-party payors, such as managed care companies and insurance companies, in an attempt to exercise control over increasing health care costs and changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also have a material and adverse effect on our profitability by substantially reducing our revenues. There are few barriers to entry in the institutional pharmacy market, and we may experience unforeseen competition in our markets. There are relatively few barriers to entry in the local markets that we serve, and we may encounter substantial competition from new local market entrants as well as increasing competition from our pharmacies operating outside the United States which ship drugs to US residents over the internet and through other distribution channels. This competition could have a material and adverse affect on our business. Future sales of common stock could depress the price of our common stock. We are attempting to raise additional capital. The planned financings may include, but not be limited to, a combination of privately placed common stock, senior debt and subordinated debt in Standard Management or UHCC. The amounts may vary depending upon the structure of each financing instrument. Sales of significant amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that sales will occur, could materially depress the market price of our common stock. Upon the issuance, if any of new shares of common stock, the Company intends to register those shares. We also have outstanding four series of convertible notes, which, as of December 31, 2006, are convertible into an aggregate of 49,628,807 shares of common stock. We have registered some of these shares for resale and intend to register the rest so that upon conversion, such shares will be freely tradable. Further, we have outstanding warrants and options to purchase an aggregate of 5,743,135 shares of common stock. The shares of common stock underlying such warrants are subject to registration rights or are otherwise currently freely tradable. 10 Table of Contents In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we have an aggregate of 1,375,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our two stock option plans upon the exercise of stock options currently outstanding. Those shares, if issued, will be eligible for immediate resale in the market (other than 959,500 shares underlying exercisable options held by our executive officers and directors). Finally, it is our intention to commence an exchange offer for all or a portion of our outstanding trust preferred securities, in which holders will be offered the opportunity to exchange their trust preferred securities for shares of our common stock. We have not yet determined the terms of the exchange offer, including the exchange ratio. As a result, while the exchange offer will likely result in the issuance of a significant number of additional shares of our common stock, we cannot presently quantify how many new shares will be issued. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. This volatility may or may not be related to our operating performance. Some of this volatility may be related to our recent shift to operating solely in the healthcare business and as a much smaller company, and may reflect the market’s difficulty in valuing our business until we establish a longer operating history. In addition, announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in recommendations by financial analysts, fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors and similar events could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Our shares are not listed on an exchange which could impact your ability to sell your shares. Because our shares are not listed on any stock-exchange (instead quotations of trading are provided by the OTC Bulletin Board), an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our securities. In addition, the SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share subject to certain exceptions. Because our shares are not listed on an exchange, and are traded below $5.00, they may become subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other that established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of securities and have the purchasers’ written consent for a transaction prior to sale period. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market and risks of investing in our securities. The broker-dealer must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities, and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in account and for the information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the “penny stock” rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our shares and may affect your ability to sell our shares in the secondary market. You may experience dilution as a result of future issuances of shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, we had 16,171,194 shares of common stock outstanding. Additionally, as of December 31, 2006, we had stock options, warrants and convertible securities outstanding that were convertible or exercisable into up to 55,371,942 shares of our common stock. We have issued an additional 21,850,000 of shares in January through April, 3, 2007. Furthermore, in connection with our acquisition strategy, we may issue shares of our common stock as consideration in certain future acquisition transactions. We are also likely to issue a significant number of shares in the planned exchange offer for our trust preferred securities. We may also issue additional shares as warrants to purchase additional shares in the future through various financing or restructuring transactions, although, there are no firm plans for such transactions at this time. In the event that we issue additional common stock in the future, our shareholders will experience dilution the significance of which will depend on the number of shares issued. 11 Table of Contents 