ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained and incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in our common stock. We operate in volatile businesses that are heavily dependent upon commodity prices and other factors beyond our control. The success of our Drilling operations depends heavily upon conditions in the oil and gas industry and the level of demand for drilling services. Demand for our drilling services is vulnerable to declines that are typically associated with depressed oil and natural gas prices. Even the perceived risk of a decline in oil or natural gas prices may cause oil and gas companies to reduce their spending, in which case demand for our drilling services could decrease and our drilling revenues may be adversely affected by lower rig utilization and/or day rates. Oil and natural gas prices have historically been very volatile, and our drilling operations have in the past suffered through long periods of weak market conditions. Demand for our drilling services also depends on additional factors that are beyond our control, including: · fluctuations in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas · the willingness and ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or “OPEC,” to limit production levels and influence prices; · political and military conflicts in oil-producing areas and the effects of terrorism; · the level of production in non-OPEC countries; · laws, regulations and policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; · domestic and international tax policies; · disruption of exploration and development activities due to hurricanes and other severe weather conditions; · advances in exploration and development technology; and · further consolidation of our customer base 9 Table of Contents Our drilling operations have been and will continue to be adversely affected by dramatic declines in oil and natural gas prices, as occurred in late 2008 and early 2009, but we cannot predict the extent of that effect. Nor can we assure you that a reduction in offshore drilling activity will not occur for other reasons. Our Manufacturing operations are also dependent on commodity prices and financial market conditions which affect demand for rigs and related components, mining and timber equipment and after-market parts. The delivery of new offshore drilling rigs currently under construction may further reduce our rig utilization and day rates and could lead to impairment charges. We believe there are currently 61 competitive jack-up rigs under construction worldwide, or approximately 13% of the existing fleet. Most of these rigs do not have drilling contracts in place, and their delivery will increase the supply of available rigs competing for work, which could further reduce rig utilization and day rates. In addition, many of these rigs will likely enter the market at a time of excess capacity and low day rates. Prolonged periods of low rig utilization require us to accept lower day rates, or may cause us to temporarily take rigs out of service, or “stack” rigs, which would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. We may be required to recognize impairment charges on our drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that their carrying values may not be recoverable. Our markets are highly competitive, and satisfactory price levels are difficult to maintain. Our drilling and manufacturing markets are highly competitive, and no single participant is dominant. Drilling contracts are often awarded on a competitive bid basis, with intense price competition frequently being the primary factor determining which qualified contractor is awarded the job. Relocation of offshore rigs from areas of lower activity, such as the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, to more active international markets has further increased the competition among rigs looking for work in those areas. The anticipated delivery of 61 new jack-ups over the next three years and ongoing consolidation by oil and gas exploration and production companies will further increase the supply of rigs while reducing the number of available customers. This consolidation has also resulted in drilling projects being delayed. We may have to further reduce our prices in order to remain competitive, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our rigs under construction do not yet have drilling contracts. We have not yet obtained drilling contracts for four of our rigs under construction. Failure to secure economical contracts for them prior to delivery could negatively impact our operating results. Many of our drilling rigs are subject to damage or destruction by severe weather, and our business may be affected by the threat of severe weather. Much of the Gulf of Mexico, the North Sea and offshore eastern Canada frequently experience hurricanes or other extreme weather conditions. Many of our offshore drilling rigs are located in these areas and are thus subject to potential damage or destruction by such conditions. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could cause us to suspend operations on drilling rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. Even if our drilling rigs are not damaged by such conditions, we may still experience disruptions in our operations due to damage to our customers’ platforms and other related facilities in these areas. Additionally our customers may choose not to contract our rigs for use during hurricane season, particularly our conventional rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. During Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, we lost four jack-up rigs and another was significantly damaged. During Hurricane Ike in 2008, we lost one jack-up rig. Future storms could result in the loss or damage of additional rigs, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our insurance coverage for windstorms may be inadequate, has become more expensive, and may become unavailable or cost-prohibitive. Hurricanes (or “windstorms”) have caused tremendous damage to drilling and production equipment and facilities throughout the Gulf Coast in recent years, and insurance companies have incurred substantial losses as a result. Accordingly, insurance companies have substantially reduced the levels of windstorm coverage available and have dramatically increased the cost of such coverage. Coverage for potential liabilities to third parties associated with property damage and personal injuries, as well as coverage for environmental liabilities and removal of wreckage and debris associated with hurricane losses has also been limited. 10 Table of Contents As a result of the increased cost and reduced availability of coverage, in 2009 we decided to discontinue windstorm physical damage coverage on four of our older, less capable jack-up rigs, and our current coverage for removal of wreckage is subject to a $100 million per occurrence deductible. Currently, our windstorm physical damage coverage is subject to a $50 million per occurrence deductible with an annual aggregate limit of $150 million and covers only the Gorilla II, the Bob Palmer and the Rowan-Mississippi. Losses due to future windstorms not covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We renew our rig insurance policies annually each April. The level of coverage that we maintain is reevaluated each year based on a variety of factors, and we can provide no assurance that we will maintain future coverage at current levels. Taxing authorities may challenge our tax positions, and we may not be able to realize expected benefits. In 2009, we recognized tax benefits of $25 million as a result of applying our facts to a recent third-party tax case that provides a more favorable tax treatment for certain foreign contracts entered into in prior years. Our income tax returns are subject to audit by U.S. federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. Determinations by such taxing authorities that differ materially from our recorded estimates, either favorably or unfavorably, may have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our foreign operations typically present additional risk, and operations in certain foreign areas present higher costs. In recent years, we have significantly expanded our operations internationally. Foreign operations are often subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not typically encountered in domestic operations, including arbitrary taxation policies, onerous customs restrictions, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, security threats including terrorism, and the risk of asset expropriation due to foreign sovereignty over operating areas. With regard to the risk that our customer may terminate contracts without cause on short notice, contractually or by governmental action, we assume greater risks of such events in foreign areas, where legal protections may be less available to the Company. Any such unforeseen events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, operations in certain foreign areas, such as the North Sea, are highly regulated and have higher compliance and operating costs in general. Most of our contracts are fixed-price contracts, and increases in our operating costs or the impact of any general inflation could have an adverse effect on the profitability of those contracts. Most of our drilling contracts provide for the payment of a fixed day rate during periods of operation, and reduced day rates during periods of other activities, and our manufacturing contracts typically provide for a fixed price. Many of our operating costs are unpredictable and can vary based on events beyond our control. Our gross margins will therefore vary over the terms of our contracts. If our costs increase or we encounter unforeseen costs, we may not be able to recover them from our customers, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. High costs associated with maintaining idle rigs may cause us to experience losses, and cold-stacking rigs may result in impairment charges. In the past, Rowan generally has not cold-stacked its offshore drilling rigs during extended idle periods, as the long-term costs of rehiring and retraining personnel and restarting equipment typically negate any short-term savings. As noted previously, however, we have recently cold-stacked the Rowan-Juneau, one of our oldest rigs. Should we cold-stack additional idle rigs, we could be exposed to additional severance costs and potential impairment charges from reductions in the fair value of our equipment. Deterioration in global capital markets reduces customer spending and results in lower demand for our products and services and reduced or delayed collections of expected revenues. Weakness in global capital markets, coupled with declining oil and natural gas prices, have caused a number of oil and gas producers to reduce operating and capital budgets, cancel projects or large purchases and/or slow the payment of receivables in an effort to preserve liquidity. Many of our customers have approached us in an effort to cancel contracts, reduce rates and prices or extend payment terms. We can provide no assurance that all of our receivables will be collected. We will experience reduced profitability if our customers terminate or seek to renegotiate our drilling contracts. Some of our drilling contracts are cancelable by the customer upon specific notice, or upon the occurrence of events beyond our control, such as the loss or destruction of the rig due to weather, or the suspension of drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment. Not all of our contracts require the customer to make an early termination payment upon cancellation. Any early termination payments that may be required under our contracts may not 11 Table of Contents be sufficient to fully compensate us for the loss of the contract and could result in the rig becoming idle for an extended period of time. Additionally, in weak market conditions, a customer may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate and seek to renegotiate the terms of its existing drilling contract with us. Weakness in global capital markets may limit our ability to meet our future capital needs. At December 31, 2009, we had $640 million of cash and equivalents plus a $155 million revolving credit facility to be used, if necessary, for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and debt service requirements. Given the volatility in global capital markets, it is possible our credit facility will not be available when and if required. Lack of access to capital may limit our ability to expand our businesses, engage in acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities. We are subject to operating risks such as blowouts and well fires that could result in environmental damage, property loss, personal injury and death, some of which may not be covered by insurance or recoverable indemnification. Our drilling operations are subject to many hazards that could increase the likelihood of accidents. Accidents can result in: • costly delays or cancellations of drilling operations; • serious damage to or destruction of equipment; • personal injury or death; • significant impairment of producing wells, leased properties or underground geological formations; and • major environmental damage. Our offshore drilling operations are also subject to marine hazards, whether at drilling sites or while equipment is under tow, such as vessel capsizings, collisions or groundings. In addition, raising and lowering jack-up rigs and drilling into high-pressure formations are complex, hazardous activities, and we frequently encounter problems. Any ongoing change in weather patterns or climate could increase the adverse impact of marine hazards. Our manufacturing processes could pollute the air, land, and inland waters, and the products we manufacture could be implicated in lawsuits alleging environmental harm, property loss, personal injury and death. We have experienced some of the types of incidents described above, including high-pressure drilling accidents resulting in lost or damaged drilling formations and towing accidents resulting in lost drilling equipment. Any future such events could result in operating losses and have a significant adverse impact on our business. We have a significant insurance receivable related to the salvage of several offshore drilling rigs lost or damaged during recent hurricanes. During 2005, we lost four offshore rigs, including the Rowan-Halifax, and incurred significant damage on a fifth as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. We also lost another offshore rig during Hurricane Ike in 2008. Since 2005, we have been working to locate the lost rigs, salvage related equipment, remove debris, wreckage and pollutants from the water, mark or clear navigational hazards and clear rights of way. As of December 31, 2009, we had incurred $229 million of costs related to such efforts, of which $199 million had been reimbursed through insurance, leaving $30 million included in receivables. Some of these expenditures may not be reimbursed by our insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our four Super Gorilla class rigs and two of our Tarzan Class rigs are pledged as security under our government-guaranteed debt arrangements. If operating conditions deteriorate and if market conditions were to remain depressed for a long period of time, our results of operations would suffer, and working capital and other financial resources may not be available or adequate to service our outstanding debt. Our four Super Gorilla class jack-ups and two of our Tarzan Class jack-ups are pledged as security under our government-guaranteed debt arrangements. If we were unable to service our debt, it is possible that these assets could be removed from our fleet, in which case our ability to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows would be significantly reduced. 12 Table of Contents Changes to our inventory valuation allowances may reduce our future operating results. We recognize valuation allowances against our inventories based on historical usage of inventory on hand, assumptions about future demand based on market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are usually limited. Our inventories generally consist of spare parts, work in process, and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and our installed base of drilling, mining and timber equipment. Customers rely on us to stock these specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner. The estimated carrying values of our inventories are therefore indirectly affected by demand for oil, natural gas and other commodities, general economic conditions worldwide, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. As a result of the 2008 declines in oil and natural gas prices, the onset of global recession and weakness in capital markets, we reduced our estimates of future usage of our inventories and significantly increased our inventory reserves at December 31, 2008. Further deterioration in worldwide demand for oil, natural gas and certain other commodities, or the development of new technologies which make older drilling, mining and timber technologies obsolete, could require us to record additional reserves to reduce the value of our inventory and reduce our future operating results. Rig upgrades, enhancements and new construction projects are subject to risks which could cause delays or cost overruns and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. New drilling rigs may experience start-up complications following delivery or other unexpected operational problems that could result in significant uncompensated downtime, reduced day rates or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts. Rig construction projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project from numerous factors, including the following: • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment or shipyard construction; • failure of equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards; • financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors or the shipyard; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • inability to obtain required permits or approvals; • unanticipated cost increases between order and delivery, which can be up to two years; • adverse weather conditions and other events of force majeure; • design or engineering changes; and • work stoppages and other labor disputes. Significant cost overruns or delays could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, failure to complete a project on time may result in the delay of revenue from that rig, which also could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our customers may be unable to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, we typically obtain contractual indemnification from our customers whereby they generally agree to protect and indemnify us for liabilities resulting from various hazards associated with the drilling industry. We can provide no assurance, however, that our customers will be financially able to meet these indemnification obligations. The failure of a customer to meet such obligations, the failure of one or more of our insurance providers to meet claim obligations, or losses or liabilities resulting from unindemnified, uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to governmental laws and regulations that could cause significant costs and liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. Many aspects of our operations are subject to governmental regulation in the areas of equipping and operating vessels, drilling practices and methods, and taxation. In addition, the United States and other countries in which we operate have regulations relating to environmental protection and pollution control. Rowan could become liable for damages resulting from pollution of offshore waters and, under United States regulations, we must document financial responsibility. Generally, we are substantially indemnified under our drilling contracts for pollution damages, except in certain cases of pollution emanating above the surface of land or water from spills of pollutants, or pollutants emanating from our drilling rigs. We can provide no assurance, however, that such indemnification provisions can be enforced. 13 Table of Contents In late 2007, we entered into a plea agreement with the Environmental and Natural Resources Division, Environmental Crimes Section of the U.S. Department of Justice, as amended, under which we paid fines and made community service payments totaling $9 million. Additionally, we agreed to be subject to unsupervised probation for a period of three years in connection with a criminal investigation of environmental matters involving several of our offshore drilling rigs that at various times operated in the Gulf of Mexico. During the probation period we must ensure that we commit no further criminal violations of federal, state, or local laws or regulations and must also continue to implement our comprehensive Environmental Management System Plan. In the United States, Rowan is subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes. OSHA requires us to provide our employees with information about the chemicals used in our operations. There are comparable requirements in other non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition to the federal, state, and foreign regulations that directly affect our operations, regulations associated with the production and transportation of oil and gas affect the operations of our customers and thereby could potentially impact demand for our services. Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” (“GHGs”) and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of GHG emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. Legislative and regulatory measures to address concerns that emissions of GHGs are contributing to climate change are in various phases of discussions or implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels. In 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which established emission targets for GHGs, became binding on the countries that had ratified it. We currently operate one of our rigs in eastern Canada, which is one of the countries that ratified the Kyoto Protocol. International discussions are underway to develop a treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol after its expiration in 2012. In the United States, federal legislation imposing restrictions on GHGs is under consideration. Proposed legislation has been introduced that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions. In addition, the EPA is taking steps that would result in the regulation of GHGs as pollutants under the Clean Air Act (“CAA”). To date, the EPA has issued (i) a “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” final rule, effective December 29, 2009, which establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources in the United States emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions annually; and (ii) an "Endangerment Finding" final rule, effective January 14, 2010, which states that current and projected concentrations of six key GHGs in the atmosphere, as well as emissions from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines, threaten public health and welfare, allowing the EPA to finalize motor vehicle GHG standards (the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil). Finally, according to the EPA, the final motor vehicle GHG standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. As a result, the EPA has proposed to tailor these programs such that only large stationary sources will be required to have air permits that authorize GHG emissions. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to GHGs and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have an adverse impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. An increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our rigs, impact our ability to conduct our operations and/or result in a disruption of our customer's operations. Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009” or ACESA, which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of “greenhouse gases.” The net effect of ACESA would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions, and the Obama Administration has indicated its support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas 14 Table of Contents emissions through an emission allowance system. Although it is not possible at this time to predict when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill passed by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, the adoption and implementation of any CAA regulations, and any future federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions, could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for oil and natural gas and our services. The effect on our operations could include increased costs to operate and maintain our equipment and facilities, install new emission controls on our equipment or facilities, measure and report our emissions, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for holders of our common stock to receive a premium for their shares upon a change of control. Holders of the common stock of acquisition targets may receive a premium for their shares upon a change of control. Delaware law and the following provisions, among others, of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control and could prevent holders of our common stock from receiving such a premium: • Currently the affirmative vote of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock is required to approve business combinations with any related person that has not been approved by our board of directors. We are also subject to a provision of Delaware corporate law that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for three years from the date that person became an interested stockholder unless specified conditions are met. • Special meetings of stockholders may not be called by anyone other than our board of directors, our chairman, our executive committee or our president or chief executive officer. • Our board of directors is divided into three classes whose terms end in successive years, so that less than a majority of our board comes up for election at any annual meeting. • Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the voting rights and other privileges of these shares without any vote or action by our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments. 15 Table of Contents 