Item 1A. Risk Factors. We rely, in part, on external financing to fund our operations and the unavailability of such funds in the future could adversely impact our growth strategy and prospects. The Bank relies on deposits, advances from the FHLB-NY and other borrowings to fund its operations. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our current capital needs, we may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt refinancing arrangements may require us to pledge some of our assets and enter into covenants that would restrict our ability to incur further indebtedness. There can be no assurance that additional financing sources, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on terms favorable to us. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth strategy and future prospects could be adversely impacted. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including: • Inflation; • Recession; • A rise in unemployment; • Tightening money supply; and • Domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. 34 Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. We expect that the Bank will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations, especially borrowers with loans subject to negative amortization. Negative amortization involves a greater risk during a period of rising interest rates because the loan principal may increase above the amount originally advanced, which could increase the risk of default. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Bank’s net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flows as well as the market value of its securities portfolio and overall profitability. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we require such dividends in the future, may affect our ability to service our debt and pay dividends. The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the OTS, the Bank’s primary regulator, could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations as they become due, or pay dividends on our common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loans held for investment. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we experienced negligible losses. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot provide assurance that we will not need to increase our allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings and profitability. 35 Our business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown in New Jersey, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within New Jersey, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for our products and services may decline; and • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate may decline in value, in turn reducing a client’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans held for investment. A downturn in the New Jersey real estate market could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in New Jersey. A downturn in the New Jersey real estate market could hurt our business because the vast majority of our loans are secured by real estate located within New Jersey. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, especially in New Jersey, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Our president and chief executive officer owns a significant amount of our common stock and may make decisions that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, William J. Campbell, our President and Chief Executive Officer, owned approximately 12% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he will have the ability to significantly influence the election and removal of our board of directors, as well as the outcome of any other matters to be decided by a vote of stockholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even when a change in control may be perceived by some to be in the best interests of our stockholders. 36 We are subject to extensive regulation, which could adversely affect us. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that there will be no laws, rules or regulations adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could hurt our business. We conduct our business operations primarily in New Jersey. Increased competition within our market area may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that we offer. These competitors include other savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than we are, may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. If we are unable to attract and retain banking clients, we may be unable to continue our loan and deposit growth and our business, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 