ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained and incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in our common stock or debt securities. We operate in a volatile business that is heavily dependent upon commodity prices and other factors beyond our control. The success of our drilling operations depends heavily upon conditions in the oil and gas industry and the level of demand for drilling services. Demand for our drilling services is vulnerable to declines that are typically associated with depressed oil and natural gas prices. Even the perceived risk of a decline in oil or natural gas prices may cause oil and gas companies to reduce their spending, in which case demand for our drilling services could decrease and our drilling revenues may be adversely affected by lower rig utilization and/or day rates. Oil and natural gas prices have historically been very volatile, and our drilling operations have in the past suffered through long periods of weak market conditions. Demand for our drilling services also depends on additional factors that are beyond our control, including: · worldwide demand for drilling services · worldwide demand and prices for oil and natural gas · the level of exploration and development expenditures by energy companies · the willingness and ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to limit production levels and influence prices · the level of production in non-OPEC countries · the general economy, including inflation · the condition of global capital markets · weather and climate conditions in our principal operating areas, including possible disruption of exploration and development activities due to hurricanes and other severe weather conditions · environmental and other laws and regulations · policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves · domestic and international tax policies · political and military conflicts in oil-producing areas and the effects of terrorism 8 Table of Contents · advances in exploration and development technology · further consolidation of our customer base · further consolidation of our competitors Our drilling operations have been and will continue to be adversely affected by dramatic declines in oil and natural gas prices, but we cannot predict such events. Nor can we assure you that a reduction in offshore drilling activity will not occur for other reasons. The delivery of new drilling rigs currently under construction may reduce our rig utilization and day rates, could be difficult to staff given competition for labor, and could lead to impairment charges. We believe there are currently 78 competitive jack-ups and 68 drillships under construction worldwide, or approximately 16% and 87% of the existing respective jack-up and drillship fleets. Most of these rigs do not have drilling contracts in place, and their delivery will increase the supply of available rigs competing for work, which could reduce rig utilization and day rates. In addition, many of these rigs could enter the market at a time of excess capacity and low day rates. Prolonged periods of low rig utilization require us to accept lower day rates, or may cause us to temporarily take rigs out of service, or “stack” rigs, which would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. We may also have difficulty staffing our rigs and hiring support staff as competition for labor will increase with the significant additions to the worldwide fleet. We may be required to recognize impairment charges on our drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that their carrying values may not be recoverable. Our markets are highly competitive, and satisfactory price levels are difficult to maintain. Our drilling markets are highly competitive, and no single participant is dominant. Drilling contracts are often awarded on a competitive-bid basis, and intense price competition is frequently the primary factor determining which qualified contractor is awarded the job. Relocation of offshore rigs from areas of lower activity, such as the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in recent years, to more active international markets has further increased the competition among rigs looking for work in those areas. The anticipated delivery of 78 new jack-ups and 68 drillships over the next three and seven years, respectively, and ongoing consolidation by oil and gas exploration and production companies will further increase the supply of rigs while reducing the number of available customers. This consolidation has also resulted in drilling projects being delayed. We may have to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. If we or our customers are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for drilling operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease our operations, and our revenues may be reduced. Crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico require numerous permits and approvals for us and our customers from governmental agencies. If we or our customers are not able to obtain necessary permits and approvals, our operations will be adversely affected. Obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures to comply with the requirements of these permits and approvals, future changes to these permits or approvals, or any adverse change in the interpretation of existing permits and approvals. In addition, such regulatory requirements and restrictions could also delay or curtail our operations and could have a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations and may create a risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements. In 2010, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, which was replaced October 1, 2011, by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (“BOEM”) and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (“BSEE”), issued Notices to Lessees (“NTLs”) implementing new environmental and safety regulations applicable to drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. These NTLs have adversely impacted the ability of our customers to obtain necessary permits and approval on a timely basis and/or to continue operations uninterrupted under existing permits. The BSEE, which is responsible for implementation and enforcement of the new regulations, subsequently issued new regulations in October 2011 which formalized many of the requirements set forth in the NTLs and issued additional environmental and safety requirements in November 2011. We have been evaluating our own environmental and safety programs and are working with the BSEE, our customers and various industry organizations to meet these requirements; however, compliance with these new regulatory requirements may result in interruption of operations, reduced revenues and higher operating costs. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to governmental laws and regulations that could cause significant costs and liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. Many aspects of our operations are subject to governmental regulation, including equipping and operating vessels, drilling practices and methods, and taxation. In addition, the United States and other countries in which we operate have regulations relating to environmental protection and pollution control. Rowan could become liable for damages resulting from pollution of offshore waters and, under United States regulations, we must document financial responsibility. Generally, we are substantially indemnified under our drilling contracts for pollution damages, except in certain cases of pollution emanating above the surface of land or water from spills of pollutants, or pollutants emanating from our drilling rigs. We can provide no assurance, however, that such indemnification provisions can be enforced. In the United States, Rowan is subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes. OSHA requires us to provide our employees with information about the chemicals used in our operations. There are comparable requirements in other non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition to the federal, state, and foreign regulations that directly affect our operations, regulations associated with the production and transportation of oil and gas affect the operations of our customers and thereby could potentially impact demand for our services. We will experience reduced profitability if our customers terminate or seek to renegotiate our drilling contracts. Most of our term drilling contracts are cancelable by the customer without penalty upon the occurrence of events beyond our control, such as the loss or destruction of the rig due to weather, or the suspension of drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment, and require the customer to pay a termination fee in the event of a cancelation without cause. Not all of our contracts require the customer to make an early termination payment upon cancellation. Any early termination payments that may be required under our contracts may not be sufficient to fully compensate us for the loss of the contract and could result in the rig becoming idle for an extended period of time. Additionally, a customer may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate and seek to renegotiate the terms of its existing drilling contract with us. We have and will likely continue to have certain customer concentrations which increase our risks and may reduce profitability in certain situations. The Company has certain significant customers, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico and the Middle East. The loss or material reduction of business from any such customers could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, to the extent that we may be dependent on any single customer, we could be subject to the risks faced by that customer to the extent that such risks impede the customer's ability to continue operating and make timely payments to us. Many of our drilling rigs are subject to damage or destruction by severe weather, and our business may be affected by the threat of severe weather. Our drilling rigs are located in areas that frequently experience hurricanes or other forms of severe weather conditions and are therefore subject to potential damage or destruction caused by such weather. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could cause us to suspend operations on drilling rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. Even if our drilling rigs are not damaged or lost due to severe weather, we may still experience disruptions in our operations due to damage to our customers’ platforms and other related facilities. Additionally our customers may choose not to contract our rigs for use during hurricane season, particularly our conventional rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. We lost six rigs due to hurricanes in 2002, 2005 and 2008, and another was significantly damaged. Future storms could result in the loss or damage of additional rigs, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are currently self-insured with respect to physical damage due to named windstorms in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Hurricanes (or “windstorms”) have caused tremendous damage to drilling and production equipment and facilities throughout the Gulf Coast in recent years, and insurance companies have incurred substantial losses as a result. Accordingly, insurance companies have substantially reduced the levels of available coverage for named windstorms in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and have dramatically increased the price of such coverage. Coverage for potential liabilities to third parties associated with property damage and personal injuries, as well as coverage for environmental liabilities and removal of wreckage and debris associated with these windstorm losses, has also been limited. 10 Table of Contents As a result of the increased cost and reduced availability, we do not maintain named windstorm physical damage coverage on any of our rigs located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Our coverage for removal of wreckage for these rigs is subject to a $200 million per occurrence deductible. Losses due to future U.S. Gulf of Mexico named windstorms not covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Taxing authorities may challenge our tax positions, and we may not be able to realize expected benefits. Our tax positions are subject to audit by U.S. federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. The tax authorities may disagree with our interpretations or assessments of the effects of tax laws, treaties, or regulations or their applicability to our corporate structure or certain transactions we have undertaken. We could therefore incur material amounts of unrecorded income tax cost if our positions are challenged and we are unsuccessful in defending them. In 2009, we recognized certain tax benefits as a result of applying the facts of a third-party tax case to our tax situation. That case provided a more favorable tax treatment for certain foreign contracts entered into in prior years. Determinations by such authorities that differ materially from our recorded estimates, favorably or unfavorably, may have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The IRS audit team auditing our tax returns has initially disagreed with our position on these tax benefits. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in our position. Our foreign operations typically present additional risks, and operations in certain foreign areas present higher costs. In recent years, we have significantly expanded our operations internationally. Foreign operations are often subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not typically encountered in domestic operations, including arbitrary taxation policies, onerous customs restrictions, currency exchange fluctuations, security threats including terrorism, and the risk of asset expropriation due to foreign sovereignty over operating areas. Political unrest in areas in which we have operations, could potentially delay projects, either planned or currently in progress, or could impact the Company in other unforeseen ways. In foreign areas where legal protections may be less available to the Company, we assume greater risk that our customer may terminate contracts without cause on short notice, contractually or by governmental action. Any such unforeseen events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, operations in certain foreign areas, such as the North Sea, are highly regulated and have higher compliance and operating costs in general. Most of our contracts are fixed-price contracts, and changes in customre requirements, increased regulatory requirements and increases in our operating costs or price levels in general could have an adverse effect on the profitability of those contracts. Most of our drilling contracts provide for the payment of a fixed day rate during periods of operation, and reduced day rates during periods of other activities. Many of our operating costs are unpredictable and can vary based on events beyond our control, including increased customer and regulatory requirements. Our gross margins will therefore vary over the terms of our contracts. If our costs increase or we encounter unforeseen costs, we may not be able to recover them from our customers, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. There are a limited number of suppliers for certain equipment we use in our business. As a result of the 2011 sale of LeTourneau, our former oil and gas equipment manufacturing subsidiary, we are more dependent on third-party suppliers for services, parts and equipment we use in our business. This could result in higher prices for the parts we purchase, the availability of parts, delays in delivery, or poor customer service in general. High costs associated with maintaining idle rigs may cause us to experience losses, and cold-stacking rigs may result in impairment charges. During extended periods that rigs are idle, we may choose to cold-stack our rigs. The Rowan Juneau and the Rowan Alaska, two of our oldest rigs have been cold-stacked since 2010 and the Rowan Paris was stacked in late 2011. Should we cold-stack additional idle rigs, we could be exposed to additional severance costs and potential impairment charges from reductions in the fair value of our equipment. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to operating risks such as blowouts and well fires that could result in environmental damage, property loss, personal injury and death, and some of such risks may not be covered by insurance or recoverable indemnification. Our drilling operations are subject to many hazards that could increase the likelihood of accidents. Accidents can result in: • costly delays or cancellations of drilling operations; • serious damage to or destruction of equipment; • personal injury or death; • significant impairment of producing wells, leased properties or underground geological formations; and • major environmental damage. Our drilling operations are also subject to marine hazards, whether at drilling sites or while equipment is under tow, such as vessel capsizings, collisions or groundings. In addition, raising and lowering jack-up rigs and drilling into high-pressure formations are complex, hazardous activities, and we frequently encounter problems. Any ongoing change in weather patterns or climate could increase the adverse impact of marine hazards. In past years, we have experienced some of the types of incidents described above, including high-pressure drilling accidents resulting in lost or damaged drilling formations and towing accidents resulting in lost drilling equipment. Any future such events could result in operating losses and have a significant impact on our business. The Company maintains insurance coverage for damage to our drilling rigs, third-party liability, workers’ compensation and employers’ liability, sudden and accidental pollution and other coverage. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and self-insured retentions which must be met prior to any recovery. Additionally, our insurance is subject to exclusions and limitations, and we can provide no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. Our current insurance policies provide coverage for loss or damage to our fleet of drilling rigs on an agreed value basis (which varies by unit) subject to a deductible of $25 million per occurrence. This coverage does not include damage arising from a United States Gulf of Mexico named windstorm, for which we are self-insured. We maintain insurance policies providing coverage for liability associated with negative environmental impacts of a sudden and accidental pollution event, third-party liability, employers’ liability (including Jones Act liability), auto liability and aviation liability, and these policies are subject to various deductibles and underlying limits. In addition, we maintain excess liability coverage with an annual aggregate limit of $700 million subject to a self-insured retention of $10 million (except in cases of removal-of-rig-wreck due to U.S. Gulf of Mexico named windstorm, which has a self-insured retention of $200 million). Our rig physical damage and liability insurance renews each June. Due to recent industry losses, including the Macondo incident, it may be impossible to secure coverage of a similar nature and with similar limits, or such coverage may be available only at higher costs. Our drilling contracts generally indemnify the Company for injuries and death of our customers’ employees and loss or damage to our customers’ property. Our service agreements generally indemnify the Company for injuries and death of our service providers’ employees. Our customers may be unable to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, we typically obtain contractual indemnification from our customers whereby they generally agree to protect and indemnify us for liabilities resulting from various hazards associated with the drilling industry. We can provide no assurance, however, that our customers will be financially able to meet these indemnification obligations. The failure of a customer to meet such obligations, the failure of one or more of our insurance providers to meet claim obligations, or losses or liabilities resulting from unindemnified, uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Rig mobilization, upgrades, enhancements and new construction projects are subject to risks which could cause delays or cost overruns and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Rigs moving to a new location and new drilling rigs often experience delays and start-up complications following delivery or other unexpected operational problems that could result in significant uncompensated downtime, reduced day rates or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts. Rig mobilizations, upgrades and new rig construction projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns, including the following: • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment or shipyard construction; • failure of equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards; • financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors or the shipyard; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • inability to obtain required permits or approvals; • unanticipated cost increases between order and delivery, which can be up to three years; • adverse weather conditions and other events of force majeure; • design or engineering changes; and • work stoppages and other labor disputes. Unexpected expenses, significant cost overruns or delays could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, failure to complete a project on time may result in the delay or loss of revenue from that rig, which also could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” (“GHGs”) and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of GHG emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. Legislative and regulatory measures to address concerns that emissions of GHGs are contributing to climate change are in various phases of discussions or implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels. In 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which established emission targets for GHGs, became binding on the countries that had ratified it. We have recently operated offshore eastern Canada, which is one of the countries that ratified the Kyoto Protocol. International discussions are underway to develop a treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol after its expiration in 2012. In the United States, federal legislation imposing restrictions on GHGs is under consideration. Proposed legislation has been introduced that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions. In addition, the EPA is taking steps that would result in the regulation of GHGs as pollutants under the Clean Air Act (“CAA”). To date, the EPA has issued (i) a “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” final rule, effective December 29, 2009, which establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources in the United States emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions annually; and (ii) an "Endangerment Finding" final rule, effective January 14, 2010, which states that current and projected concentrations of six key GHGs in the atmosphere, as well as emissions from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines, threaten public health and welfare, allowing the EPA to finalize motor vehicle GHG standards (the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil). Finally, according to the EPA, the final motor vehicle GHG standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. As a result, the EPA has proposed to tailor these programs such that only large stationary sources will be required to have air permits that authorize GHG emissions. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to GHGs and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have an adverse impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. An increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our rigs, impact our ability to conduct our operations and/or result in a disruption of our customer's operations. 13 Table of Contents Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009” or ACESA, which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of “greenhouse gases.” The net effect of ACESA would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions, and the Obama Administration has indicated its support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. Although it is not possible at this time to predict when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill passed by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, the adoption and implementation of any CAA regulations, and any future federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions, could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for oil and natural gas and our services. The effect on our operations could include increased costs to operate and maintain our equipment and facilities, install new emission controls on our equipment or facilities, measure and report our emissions, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for holders of our common stock to receive a premium for their shares upon a change of control. Holders of the common stock of acquisition targets may receive a premium for their shares upon a change of control. Delaware law and the following provisions, among others, of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control and could prevent holders of our common stock from receiving such a premium: • Special meetings of stockholders may not be called by anyone other than our board of directors, our chairman, our executive committee or our president or chief executive officer. • Our board of directors is divided into three classes whose terms end in successive years, so that less than a majority of our board comes up for election at any annual meeting. • Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the voting rights and other privileges of these shares without any vote or action by our stockholders. Three of our Super Gorilla class rigs and two of our Tarzan Class rigs are pledged as security under our government-guaranteed debt arrangements. If operating conditions deteriorate and if market conditions were to remain depressed for a long period of time, our results of operations would suffer, and working capital and other financial resources may not be available or adequate to service our outstanding debt. Three of our Super Gorilla class jack-ups and two of our Tarzan Class jack-ups are pledged as security under our government-guaranteed debt arrangements. If we were unable to service our debt, it is possible that these assets could be removed from our fleet, in which case our ability to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows would be significantly reduced. Our drillships under construction do not yet have drilling commitments. We have not yet obtained drilling commitments for our three drillships under construction, the first of which is to be delivered in late 2013. Failure to secure economical contracts for our drillships under construction prior to delivery could negatively impact our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments. 14 Table of Contents 