ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained and incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in our equity or debt securities.We operate in a volatile business that is heavily dependent upon commodity prices and other factors beyond our control.The success of our drilling operations depends heavily upon conditions in the oil and gas industry and the level of demand for drilling services. Demand for our drilling services is vulnerable to declines that are typically associated with depressed oil and natural gas prices. Even the perceived risk of a decline in oil or natural gas prices may cause oil and gas companies to reduce their spending, in which case demand for our drilling services could decrease and our drilling revenues may be adversely affected by lower rig utilization and/or day rates. Oil and natural gas prices have historically been very volatile, and our drilling operations have in the past suffered through long periods of weak market conditions. Demand for our drilling services also depends on additional factors that are beyond our control, including:•worldwide demand for drilling services;•worldwide demand for and prices of oil and natural gas;8Table of Contents•the level of exploration and development expenditures by energy companies;•the willingness and ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to limit production levels and influence prices;•the level of production in non-OPEC countries;•the effect of increased economic sanctions that affect the energy industry;•the general economy, including inflation;•the condition of global capital markets;•adverse sea, weather and climate conditions in our principal operating areas, including possible disruption of exploration and development activities due to loop currents, hurricanes and other severe sea and weather conditions;•the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;•expectations regarding future energy prices;•environmental and other laws and regulations;•policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves;•nationalization and/or confiscation;•domestic and international tax policies;•political and military conflicts in oil-producing areas and the effects of terrorism; •advances in exploration and development technology such as unconventional drilling and the development of shale resources;•the development and exploitation of alternative fuels and energy sources;•consolidation of our customer base, and•consolidation of our competitors.Our drilling operations have been and will continue to be adversely affected by dramatic declines in oil and natural gas prices, but we cannot predict such events. Other reasons may cause a reduction in offshore drilling activity.We are dependent upon our ability to secure contracts for our drilling units at sufficient day rates. An oversupply of drilling units may lead to a reduction in rig utilization and day rates and, therefore, may materially impact our profitability. Our ability to meet our cash flow obligations will depend on our ability to secure ongoing work for our drilling units at sufficient day rates. As of February 20, 2014, we had 16 rigs with contract terms ending in 2014, and our fourth drillship, which is expected to be delivered in March 2015, is not currently under contract. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our drilling units or future conditions in the oil and gas industry. If oil and gas operators reduce their exploration, development and production expenditures, we may have difficulty securing drilling contracts, or we may be forced to enter into contracts at unattractive day rates. Failure to secure economical contracts for our drilling units could impair our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our capital expenditures and/or meet our other obligations and could negatively impact our operating results and financial position. During the recent period of high utilization and day rates, industry participants have increased the supply of drilling units by ordering construction of new offshore drilling units. Historically, significant increases in construction activity has resulted in an oversupply of drilling units and, in turn, has caused a subsequent decline in utilization and day rates when the drilling units have entered the market, sometimes for extended periods of time until the new units have been absorbed into the active fleet. According to industry sources, there were 513 jack-ups and 98 drillships in the worldwide fleets as of February 13, 2014, and an additional 135 jack-ups and 74 drillships were under construction or on order. A large number of the drilling units currently under construction have not been contracted for future work, which could intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates grow near and lead to a reduction in day rates. Lower utilization and day rates could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prolonged periods of low utilization and day rates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on our drilling units if future cash flow 9Table of Contentsestimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. See “Impairment of Long-lived Assets” in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information regarding impairment charges recognized in 2012 and 2013.We are subject to operating risks such as blowouts, fires, collisions and punch throughs that could result in environmental damage, property loss, personal injury, death and other loss.Our drilling operations are subject to many hazards that could increase the likelihood of accidents. Accidents can result in:•costly delays or cancellations of drilling operations;•interruption or cessation of day rate revenue;•uncompensated downtime;•reduced day rates;•serious damage to or destruction of property and equipment;•personal injury or death;•significant impairment of producing wells, leased properties, pipelines or underground geological formations; •damage to the property of others;•damage to fisheries and the marine and coastal environment; and•fines and penalties.Our drilling operations are also subject to marine hazards, whether at drilling sites or while equipment is under tow, such as a vessel capsizing, sinking, colliding or grounding. In addition, raising and lowering jack-up rigs and drilling into high-pressure formations are complex, hazardous activities, and we periodically encounter problems. Any ongoing change in weather or sea patterns or climate conditions could increase the adverse impact of marine hazards.In past years, we have experienced some of the types of incidents described above, including high-pressure drilling accidents resulting in lost or damaged formations and towing accidents resulting in lost or damaged equipment. Any future such events could result in operating losses and have a significant impact on our business.Failure to obtain and retain highly skilled personnel could hurt our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate our rigs and provide technical services and support for our business in each of the areas of our operations. To the extent that demand for drilling services and the size of the worldwide industry fleet increase (including due to the impact of newly constructed rigs), shortages of qualified personnel could arise, creating upward pressure on wages and difficulty in staffing and servicing our rigs, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the entrance of new participants into the offshore drilling market would cause further competition for qualified and experienced personnel as these entities seek to hire personnel with expertise in the offshore drilling industry. The heightened competition for skilled personnel could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows by limiting our operations or further increasing our costs.Our business is capital intensive, and we have significant future commitments to construct additional rigs. Our total estimated project cost for the four ultra-deepwater drillships that were under construction at December 31, 2013, is approximately $2.9 billion, of which approximately $2.0 billion had not yet been incurred as of December 31, 2013.Construction upgrades, enhancements, conversions, mobilizations and repairs of rigs and drillships are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.At December 31, 2013, we had four ultra-deepwater drillships under construction at Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. Ltd.'s shipyard in Ulsan, South Korea, at a cost of approximately $2.9 billion. Although there is certain insurance coverage and financial and bank guarantees associated with the drillship construction contracts, in the event Hyundai is, for any reason, unable to perform under its agreements, there may be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 10Table of ContentsFrom time to time in the future, we may also undertake additional new construction projects. In addition, we may make significant upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures for our fleet from time to time, particularly as our drilling units age. Initial operations of new drilling units and mobilization of existing units often result in delays and other complications that could result in significant unexpected costs, uncompensated downtime, reduced day rates or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts. Some of the costs associated with construction projects, upgrades, enhancements, conversions, mobilizations and repairs of drilling units could be unplanned and are subject to risks of cost overruns or delays as a result of numerous factors, including the following: •shipyard unavailability;•shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor for completion of repairs or upgrades to our equipment;unscheduled delays in the delivery or cost increases of materials and equipment or in shipyard construction;•failure of equipment to meet quality or performance standards;•loss of or damage to essential equipment while in transit;•financial or operating difficulties experienced by equipment vendors or the shipyard;•unanticipated actual or purported change orders;•local customs strikes or related work slowdowns that could delay importation of equipment or materials;•engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment;•design or engineering changes;•latent damages or deterioration to the hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions;•work stoppages;•client acceptance delays;•weather interference, storm damage or other events of force majeure;•disputes with shipyards and suppliers;•shipyard failures and difficulties;•failure of third-party equipment vendors or service providers;•unanticipated cost increases, including relating to raw materials used in construction of our drilling units; and•difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or approvals or in meeting permit or approval conditions.These factors may contribute to cost variations and delays in the delivery of our ultra-deepwater newbuild drillships or upgrade projects. Delays in the delivery of these drillships or other drilling units or the inability to complete construction in accordance with their design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in a delay in contract commencement, resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may also cause customers to renegotiate, terminate or shorten the term of a drilling contract pursuant to applicable late delivery clauses. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms or at all. Additionally, capital expenditures for upgrades, refurbishment and construction projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, our drilling units that may undergo upgrade, refurbishment or repair may not earn a day rate during the periods they are out of service. In addition, in the event of a shipyard failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to enforce certain provisions under our newbuild contracts such as our contractual rights to recover amounts paid as installments under such contracts. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.Our markets are highly competitive, and satisfactory price levels are difficult to maintain.Our drilling markets are highly competitive, and no single participant is dominant. Some of our competitors may have greater financial or other resources than we do. The drilling industry has experienced consolidation in the past and may experience 11Table of Contentsadditional consolidation, which could create additional competitors larger than us. Drilling contracts are often awarded on a competitive-bid basis, and intense price competition is frequently the primary factor determining which qualified contractor is awarded the job. Relocation of offshore rigs from areas of lower activity to more active markets can further increase the competition among rigs looking for work in such areas. The anticipated delivery of 135 new jack-ups and 74 drillships over the next three and six years, respectively, and ongoing consolidation by oil and gas exploration and production companies will further increase the supply of rigs while reducing the number of available customers. This consolidation has also resulted in drilling projects being delayed. We may have to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows.If we or our customers are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for drilling operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease our operations, and our revenues may be reduced.Crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations require numerous permits and approvals for us and our customers from governmental agencies in the areas in which we operate. In addition, many governmental agencies have increased regulatory oversight and permitting requirements in recent years. If we or our customers are not able to obtain necessary permits and approvals in a timely manner, our operations will be adversely affected. Obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures to comply with the requirements of these permits and approvals, future changes to these permits or approvals, or any adverse change in the interpretation of existing permits and approvals. In addition, such regulatory requirements and restrictions could also delay or curtail our operations, require us to make substantial expenditures to meet compliance requirements, and could have a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations and may create a risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned.For example, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE), have implemented significant environmental and safety regulations applicable to drilling operations in the US GOM. These regulations have adversely impacted the ability of our customers to obtain necessary permits and approval on a timely basis and/or to continue operations uninterrupted under existing permits. Increases in regulatory requirements could significantly increase our costs or delay our operations. Many aspects of our operations are subject to governmental regulation, including equipping and operating vessels, drilling practices and methods, and taxation. Operations in certain areas, such as the US GOM and the North Sea, are highly regulated and have higher compliance and operating costs in general. We may be required to make significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or new governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that such laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or result in a reduction of revenues associated with downtime required to implement regulatory requirements. In the aftermath of the Macondo well blowout in 2010 and the subsequent investigation into the causes of the event, new rules have been implemented for oil and gas operations in the US GOM and in many of the international locations in which we operate, including new standards for well design, casing and cementing and well control procedures, as well as rules requiring operators to systematically identify risks and establish safeguards against those risks through a comprehensive safety and environmental management system, or SEMS. New regulations continue to be implemented, including rules regarding drilling systems and equipment, such as blowout preventer and well-control systems and lifesaving systems, as well as rules regarding employee training, engaging personnel in safety management and requiring third-party audits of SEMS programs. Such new regulations may require modifications or enhancements to existing systems and equipment, or require new equipment, and could increase our operating costs and cause downtime for our units if we are required to take any of them out of service between scheduled surveys or inspections, or if we are required to extend scheduled surveys or inspections to meet any such new requirements. Additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of our operations and could reduce exploration activity in the areas in which we operate. Governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas, and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. These governmental regulations may limit or substantially increase the cost of drilling activity in an operating area generally. The modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities.As awareness of climate change issues increases, governments around the world are beginning to adopt laws and regulations to address the matter. Lawmakers and regulators in the U.S., the U.K. and other jurisdictions where we operate have focused increasingly on restricting and reporting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse” gases that may contribute to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. This may result in new environmental regulations that may 12Table of Contentsunfavorably impact us, our suppliers and our customers. We may be exposed to risks related to new laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements pertaining to climate change, greenhouse gases, carbon emissions or energy use that could decrease the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and our drilling services. Governments may also pass laws or regulations incentivizing or mandating the use of alternative energy sources such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and our drilling services. Such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on our business, and could adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities.In addition, the offshore drilling industry is highly dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas industry and accordingly, regulations of the production and transportation of oil and gas generally could impact demand for our services.We will experience reduced profitability if our customers terminate or seek to renegotiate our drilling contracts, and our backlog of contracts may not be ultimately realized.Most of our term drilling contracts are cancelable by the customer without penalty upon the occurrence of events beyond our control such as the loss or destruction of the rig, or the suspension of drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment, and require the customer to pay a termination fee in the event of a cancelation without cause. Not all of our contracts require the customer to make an early termination payment upon cancellation. Any early termination payments that may be required under our contracts may not be sufficient to fully compensate us for the loss of the contract and could result in the rig becoming idle for an extended period of time. Additionally, a customer may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate and seek to renegotiate the terms of its existing drilling contract with us. In some cases, we may be unable to negotiate or complete definitive contracts following announcements of receipt of letters of intent. If we or our customers are unable to perform under existing contracts for any reason, our backlog of estimated revenues from drilling contracts would decline and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows.We have and will likely continue to have certain customer concentrations which increase our risks and may reduce profitability in certain situations.Our two largest customers, Saudi Aramco and Total Exploration & Production, accounted for 26% and 11%, respectively, of our 2013 consolidated revenues. The loss or material reduction of business from any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, to the extent that we may be dependent on any single customer, we could be subject to the risks faced by that customer to the extent that such risks impede the customer's ability to continue operating and make timely payments to us.Many of our drilling rigs are subject to damage or destruction by severe weather, and our drilling operations may be affected by severe weather conditions.Our drilling rigs are located in areas that frequently experience hurricanes and other forms of severe weather conditions. These conditions can cause damage or destruction to our drilling units. Further, high winds and turbulent seas can cause us to suspend operations on drilling units for significant periods of time. Even if our drilling units are not damaged or lost due to severe weather, we may still experience disruptions in our operations due to evacuation plans, reduced ability to transport personnel to the drilling unit, or damage to our customers’ platforms and other related facilities. Additionally our customers may choose not to contract our rigs for use during hurricane season, particularly in the US GOM. We lost a total of six rigs due to hurricanes during the period from 2002 to 2008 and a seventh was significantly damaged. Future severe weather could result in the loss or damage of additional rigs or curtailment of our operations, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We are currently self-insured with respect to physical damage due to named windstorms in the US GOM.Hurricanes (or named windstorms) have caused tremendous damage to drilling and production equipment and facilities throughout the US GOM in recent years, and insurance companies have incurred substantial losses as a result. Accordingly, insurance companies have substantially reduced the levels of available coverage for named windstorms in the US GOM and have dramatically increased the price of such coverage. Coverage for potential liabilities to third parties associated with property damage and personal injuries, as well as coverage for environmental liabilities and removal of wreckage and debris associated with these named windstorm losses, has also been limited.As a result of the increased cost and reduced availability, we do not maintain named windstorm physical damage coverage on any of our rigs located in the US GOM. Our coverage for liabilities (including removal of wreck) arising out of a US GOM named windstorm are subject to a self-insured retention of $200 million per occurrence. Losses due to future US GOM named windstorms not covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.13Table of ContentsTaxing authorities may challenge our tax positions, and we may not be able to realize expected benefits.Our tax positions are subject to audit by U.K., U.S., and other tax authorities. The tax authorities may disagree with our interpretations or assessments of the effects of tax laws, treaties, or regulations or their applicability to our corporate structure or certain transactions we have undertaken. We could therefore incur material amounts of unrecorded income tax cost if our positions are challenged, and we are unsuccessful in defending them.For example, in 2009, we recognized certain tax benefits as a result of applying the facts of a third-party tax case to our tax situation. That case provided a more favorable tax treatment for certain foreign contracts entered into in prior years. Determinations by tax authorities which differ materially from our recorded estimates, favorably or unfavorably, may have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. This position is currently under audit and has been challenged by U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) field agents. We have appealed their findings and expect to come to a conclusion within the next twelve months. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in our position.Changes in or non-compliance with tax laws and changes to our income tax estimates could adversely impact our financial results. On May 4, 2012, we completed a change in our legal domicile to the U.K. where we had substantial operations. As a result of the redomestication, Rowan plc became the parent company of the Rowan group of companies and our former Delaware parent company, RCI, became an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan plc. There are frequently legislative proposals in the U.S. that attempt to treat companies that have undertaken similar transactions as U.S. corporations subject to U.S. taxes or to limit the tax deductions or tax credits available to U.S. subsidiaries of these corporations. The realization of the expected tax benefits of our redomestication could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by the IRS or other tax authorities. Changes in our effective tax rates as determined from time to time, the inability to realize anticipated tax benefits, or the imposition of additional taxes could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the ultimate repatriation of earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries to the U.S., or by changes in applicable regulations and accounting principles.Changes in our recorded tax estimates (including estimated reserves for uncertain tax positions) may have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We do not provide for deferred income taxes on undistributed earnings of the Company’s non-U.K. subsidiaries, including RCI’s non-U.S. subsidiaries. It is the Company’s policy and intention to permanently reinvest earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of RCI outside the U.S. Should the non-U.S. subsidiaries of RCI make a distribution from these earnings, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes.Our international operations typically present additional risks, and operations in certain foreign areas present higher costs.In recent years, we have significantly diversified our operations internationally. Foreign operations are often subject to additional political, economic and other uncertainties, such as with respect to taxation policies, customs restrictions, currency exchange, security threats including terrorism, piracy and the risk of asset expropriation due to foreign sovereignty over operating areas. Political unrest in our areas of operations could potentially delay current or planned projects or could impact us in other unforeseen ways.In foreign areas where legal protections may be less available to the Company, we assume greater risk that our customer may terminate contracts without cause on short notice, contractually or by governmental action. Additionally, operations in certain areas, such as the North Sea, are highly regulated and have higher compliance and operating costs in general.The majority of our transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars. In order to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, we generally require customer payments to be in U.S. dollars and limit non-U.S. currency holdings to the extent they are needed to pay liabilities of operations denominated in local currencies. In certain countries in which we operate such as Egypt, local laws or contracts may require us to receive payment for a portion of the contract in the local currency. In such instances, we may hold a greater amount of local currency than would otherwise be the case exposing us to devaluation and other risk of exchange loss.Political disturbances, war, or terrorist attacks and changes in global trade policies and economic sanctions could adversely impact our operations.Our operations, and particularly those in the Middle East and Egypt, are subject to political and economic risks and uncertainties, including instability resulting from civil unrest, political demonstrations, mass strikes, or an escalation or additional outbreak of 14Table of Contentsarmed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas, which may result in extended business interruptions, suspended operations and danger to our employees, or result in claims by our customers of a force majeure situation and payment disputes. Additionally, we are subject to risks of terrorism, piracy, political instability, hostilities, nationalization, expropriation, confiscation or deprivation of our assets or military action impacting our operations, assets or financial performance in our areas of operations, including the Middle East.Most of our contracts are fixed-price contracts, and changes in customer requirements, increased regulatory requirements and increases in our operating costs or price levels in general could have an adverse effect on the profitability of those contracts.Most of our drilling contracts provide for the payment of a fixed day rate during periods of operation and reduced day rates during periods of other activities. Our long-term contracts may be at day rates lower than current prevailing rates, and therefore unable to benefit from the higher prevailing rates. Long-term contracts may also be at day rates higher than prevailing rates, and our revenues may decline at the end of such favorable contracts. Many of our operating costs are unpredictable and can vary based on events beyond our control, including increased customer and regulatory requirements. Operators and regulators are requiring higher standards than in the past, including more robust back-up redundancy systems. Our margins will therefore vary over the terms of our contracts as a result of applicable day rates and operating costs. If our costs increase or we encounter unforeseen costs, we may not be able to recover them from our customers, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our rig operating and maintenance costs include fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in rig utilization and day rates.We do not expect our rig operating and maintenance costs to decline proportionately when rigs are not in service or when day rates decline. Fixed costs continue to accrue during out-of-service periods (such as shipyard stays and rig mobilizations preceding a contract), which represented approximately 10% of our available rig days in 2013, down from approximately 12% in 2012. Operating revenue may fluctuate as a function of changes in day rates, but costs for operating a rig are generally fixed or only slightly variable regardless of the day rate being earned. Additionally, if our rigs are idle between contracts, we typically continue to incur operating and personnel costs because the crew is used to prepare the rig for its next contract. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare our rigs for stacking. Moreover, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs may increase significantly.Shortages of significant parts or equipment, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality and sourcing issues or price increases could increase our operating costs, decrease our revenues and adversely impact our operations.Our reliance on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to secure equipment, parts, components and sub-systems used in our drilling operations exposes us to volatility in the quality, prices and availability of such items, as well as poor customer service in general. Certain high specification parts and equipment we use in our operations may be available only from a single or small number of suppliers. A disruption in the deliveries from such third-party suppliers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, quality-control issues, recalls or other decreased availability or servicing of parts and equipment could adversely affect our ability to meet our commitments to customers, adversely impact our operations and revenues by resulting in uncompensated downtime, reduced day rates or the cancellation or termination of contracts, or increase our operating costs.High costs associated with maintaining idle rigs may cause us to experience losses, and cold-stacking rigs could result in impairment charges.During extended periods that rigs are idle, we may choose to cold-stack our rigs. In 2012, we recognized a $5.2 million asset impairment charge on the Rowan Juneau, which has been cold-stacked since 2010. In the event markets deteriorate, we could be exposed to impairment charges on any of our rigs, regardless of whether they are operating or stacked, and we could be exposed to severance costs in the event we stack additional rigs.Some of our operating risks may not be covered by insurance.We maintain insurance coverage for damage to our drilling rigs, third-party liability, workers’ compensation and employers’ liability, sudden and accidental pollution and other damages and losses. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and self-insured retentions which must be met prior to any recovery. Additionally, our insurance is subject to exclusions and limitations, and we can provide no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. The failure of one or more of our insurance providers to meet claim obligations or losses or liabilities resulting from 15Table of Contentsuninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our current insurance policies provide coverage for loss or damage to our fleet of drilling rigs on an agreed value basis (which varies by unit) subject to a deductible of $25 million per occurrence. This coverage does not include damage arising from a US GOM named windstorm, for which we are self-insured.We maintain insurance policies providing coverage for liability associated with negative environmental impacts of a sudden and accidental pollution event, third-party liability, employers’ liability (including Jones Act liability), automobile liability and aviation liability, and these policies are subject to various deductibles and underlying limits. In addition, we maintain excess liability coverage with an annual aggregate limit of $700 million subject to a self-insured retention of $10 million except in cases of liabilities (including removal of wreck) arising out of US GOM named windstorms, which are subject to a self-insured retention of $200 million per occurrence.Our rig physical damage and liability insurance renews each June. We can provide no assurance we will be able to secure coverage of a similar nature with similar limits at comparable costs.Our drilling contracts generally indemnify us for injuries and death of our customers’ employees and loss or damage to our customers’ property. Our service agreements generally indemnify us for injuries and death of our service providers’ employees.Our contractual indemnification provisions may not be sufficient to cover our liabilities. Our drilling contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification and allocation of liabilities between our customers and us with respect to liabilities resulting from various hazards associated with the drilling industry, such as loss of well control, well-bore pollution and damage to subsurface reservoirs and injury or death to personnel. The degree of indemnification we receive from operators against liabilities varies from contract to contract based on market conditions and customer requirements existing when the contract was negotiated. However, the enforceability of our indemnities may be subject to differing interpretations, or further limited or prohibited under applicable law or by contract, particularly in cases of gross negligence, willful misconduct, punitive damages or punitive fines and/or penalties. For example, in 2012 a U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Louisiana invalidated certain contractual indemnities for punitive damages and for civil penalties in a drilling contract governed by U.S. maritime law as a matter of public policy. We could therefore be liable for certain liabilities even in cases where we have contractual indemnification rights. Notwithstanding a contractual indemnity from a customer, there can be no assurance that our customers will be financially able to indemnify us or will otherwise honor their contractual indemnity obligations. The failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations, or losses or liabilities resulting from events excluded from or unenforceable under contractual indemnification obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” (GHGs) and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of GHG emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. International treaties, legislative and regulatory measures to address concerns that emissions of GHGs are contributing to climate change are in various phases of discussions or implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels.Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to GHGs and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have an adverse impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. An increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our rigs, impact our ability to conduct our operations and/or result in a disruption of our customers' operations. The effect on our operations could include increased costs to operate and maintain our equipment and facilities, install new emission controls on our equipment or facilities, measure and report our emissions, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program.16Table of ContentsWe are involved in litigation and legal proceedings from time to time that could have a negative effect on us if determined adversely. We are, from time to time, involved in various legal proceedings, which may include, among other things, contract dispute, personal injury, environmental, toxic tort, employment, tax and securities litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, and litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend any of these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter. Our profitability may be adversely affected by the outcome of claims or contract disputes, including any inability to collect receivables or resolve significant contractual or day rate disputes, and any purported nullification, cancellation or breach of contracts with customers or other parties. Litigation may have an adverse effect on us because of potential negative outcomes, the costs associated with defending the lawsuits, the diversion of resources, reputational damage, and other factors.A downgrade in the ratings of our debt could restrict our ability to access the debt capital markets and increase our interest costs.We currently have investment grade credit ratings, which are subject to review and change by the rating agencies from time to time. There can be no assurance that any particular rating assigned to us will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency, if in that rating agency’s judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. Changes in the ratings or outlook that rating agencies assign to our debt may ultimately limit our access to the debt capital markets and increase the costs we incur to borrow funds. If ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets would become restricted. Tightening in the credit markets and the reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets due to turmoil in the financial and banking industries could also affect our access to the debt capital markets or the price we pay to issue debt. Our revolving credit facility includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded. Further, an increase in the level of our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing.Our operations present hazards and risks that require significant oversight, and we depend upon the security and reliability of our technologies, systems and networks in numerous locations where we conduct business.We depend on technologies, systems and networks to manage our international locations in numerous locations, and our digital technologies may be subject to cybersecurity breaches. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove to be insufficient, we could be adversely affected by having our business and financial systems compromised, our proprietary information altered, lost or stolen, or our business operations and safety procedures disrupted. Such events could impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Failure to comply with corruption laws could have an adverse impact on our business.The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010 and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we have programs in place covering compliance with anti-corruption laws, any failure to comply with the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of rigs or other assets.Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility.Certain of our employees and contractors in international markets, such as Trinidad and Norway, are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Further, efforts may be made from time to time to unionize portions of our workforce. In addition, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility.The expected benefits of the redomestication may not be realized.We cannot be assured that the benefits of the redomestication will be achieved, particularly those subject to factors beyond our control. These factors include such things as the reactions of third parties with whom we do business and the reactions of investors, analysts and U.K. and U.S. taxing authorities.17Table of ContentsWe operate through subsidiaries in various countries throughout the world including the United States. We are or may become subject to changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in the U.K., U.S. or any other jurisdictions in which we or any of our subsidiaries operate or are resident. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. If the U.K., U.S., or other taxing authorities successfully challenge our application and/or interpretation of such laws, treaties and regulations or valuations and methodologies or other supporting documentation, we may not experience the level of tax benefits we anticipate or we may be subject to adverse tax consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our realization of expected tax benefits is based upon the assumption that we take successful planning steps and that we maintain and execute adequate processes to support our planning activities. If we fail to do so, we may not achieve the expected benefits. Even if we are successful in maintaining our positions, we may incur significant expense in contesting positions asserted or claims made by tax authorities. We also could be subject to future audits conducted by various tax authorities, and the resolution of such audits could significantly impact our effective tax rate in future periods, as would any reclassification or other matter (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in attempting to mitigate the adverse impacts resulting from any changes in law, audits and other matters. Our inability to mitigate the negative consequences of any changes in the law, audits and other matters could cause our effective tax rate to increase and our results of operations to be negatively impacted.Our effective tax rates and the benefits are also subject to a variety of other factors, many of which are beyond our ability to control, such as changes in the rate of economic growth in the U.K. and the U.S., the financial performance of our business in various jurisdictions, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and significant changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policies of the U.K. or the U.S., including changes in interest rates.Further, realization of the logistical and operational benefits of the redomestication is also dependent on a variety of factors including the geographic regions in which our rigs are deployed, the location of the business unit offices that oversee our global offshore contract drilling operations, the locations of our customers' corporate offices and principal areas of operation and the location of our investors. If events or changes in circumstances occur affecting the aforementioned factors, we may not be able to continue to realize the expected logistical and operational benefits of the redomestication.The enforcement of civil liabilities against Rowan plc may be more difficult.Because Rowan plc is a public limited company incorporated under English law, investors could experience more difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against Rowan plc in U.S. courts than would be the case for U.S. judgments obtained against a U.S. company. In addition, it may be more difficult (or impossible) to bring some types of claims against Rowan plc in courts in the U.K. than it would be to bring similar claims against a U.S. company in a U.S. court.Our articles of association include mandatory offer provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing hostile takeovers, including those that might result in a premium being paid over the market price of our shares, and discouraging, delaying or preventing changes in control or management.Although Rowan plc is not currently subject to the U.K. Takeover Code, certain provisions similar to the mandatory offer provisions and certain other aspects of the U.K. Takeover Code are included in our articles of association. As a result, among other matters, except with the consent of our Board or the prior approval of the shareholders, a Rowan plc shareholder, together with persons acting in concert, would be at risk of certain Board sanctions if they acquired 30 percent or more of our issued shares without making an offer to all of our other shareholders that is in cash or accompanied by a cash alternative. The ability of shareholders to retain their shares upon completion of a mandatory offer may depend on whether the offeror subsequently causes us to propose a court-approved scheme of arrangement that would compel minority shareholders to transfer or surrender their shares in favor of the offeror or, if the offeror has acquired at least 90 percent of the relevant shares, the offeror requires minority shareholders to accept the offer under the ‘squeeze-out’ provisions in our articles of association. The mandatory offer provisions in our articles of association could have the effect of discouraging the acquisition and holding of interests of 30 percent or more of issued shares and encouraging those shareholders who may be acting in concert with respect to the acquisition of shares to seek to obtain the consent of our Board before effecting any additional purchases. In addition, these provisions may adversely affect the market price of our shares or inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our shares that could otherwise result from actual or rumored takeover attempts.18Table of ContentsAs a result of increased shareholder approval requirements, we may have less flexibility as a U.K. public limited company than as a Delaware corporation with respect to certain aspects of capital management.Under Delaware law, directors may issue, without further stockholder approval, any shares authorized in a company’s certificate of incorporation that are not already issued or reserved. Delaware law also provides substantial flexibility in establishing the terms of preferred shares. However, English law provides that a board of directors may generally only allot shares with the prior authorization of shareholders; such authorization must state the maximum amount of shares that may be allotted and may only be for a maximum period of five years.English law also generally provides shareholders with preemptive rights when new shares are issued for cash while Delaware law does not. However, it is possible for the articles of association, or shareholders in a general meeting, to exclude preemptive rights for a maximum period of up to five years from the date of adoption of the exclusion.English law also generally prohibits a company from repurchasing its own shares by way of “off market purchases” without the prior approval of shareholders by special resolution (i.e., 75 percent of votes cast), which approval lasts for a maximum period of five years. English law prohibits Rowan plc from conducting “on market purchases” as its shares will not be traded on a recognized investment exchange in the U.K.Prior to the redomestication, resolutions were adopted to authorize the allotment of a certain amount of shares, exclude certain preemptive rights and permit off market purchases, in each case without further shareholder approval, but these authorizations will expire in 2017 unless further approved by our shareholders prior to the expiration date.We cannot assure you that situations will not arise where U.K. shareholder approval requirements for the extension or expansion of any of these actions would deprive our shareholders of substantial capital management benefits.We have incurred higher costs as a result of the redomestication and we expect to continue to do so. The redomestication has resulted in an increase in some of our ongoing expenses and requires us to incur some new expenses. Some costs, including those related to holding worldwide operational management meetings and holding board and shareholder meetings in the U.K., are higher than would be the case if we had not redomesticated. We are also incurring new or increased expenses, including professional fees, to comply with U.K. corporate and tax laws.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThe Company has no unresolved SEC staff comments.19Table of Contents