Item 1A. Risk Factors. Government investigations may reduce our earnings. As previously disclosed and described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings of this Form 10-K, the Bank has received federal grand jury subpoenas from the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey (“U.S. Attorney’s Office”). The subpoenas were issued to the Bank in connection with an ongoing investigation regarding the Bank’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance. Certain individuals, including the Bank’s senior officers, have also received grand jury testimony subpoenas in connection with this matter. In addition, the Bank and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Pamrapo Service Corporation, have also recently received federal grand jury subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney’s Office relating to certain commissions paid to the manager of Pamrapo Service Corporation. The Bank is, and intends to continue, cooperating fully with the investigations. It is anticipated that the investigations will continue for at least the next several months. We are unable to predict what action, if any, might be taken in the future by governmental authorities as a result of these investigations or what impact, if any, the outcome of these matters might have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Regardless of the outcome, however, we may continue to incur substantial costs in dealing with these matters, which could continue to reduce our earnings. 28 Table of Contents Forensic audit of Pamrapo Service Corporation may disrupt our business, cause us to incur significant expenses and affect our financial statements for the current and prior periods. As described in Part II, Item 9A, Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K and Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders, in August 2008, management became aware that certain commission payments from a third-party broker, which were payable to Pamrapo Service Corporation, as required by its policies and procedures, were being paid directly to the manager of Pamrapo Service Corporation. The direct payments to the manager were made pursuant to a letter between a third-party broker and the president of Pamrapo Service Corporation. These direct payments constituted a change in commission structure, which was made without the approval of the board of directors of Pamrapo Service Corporation, as required by its policies and procedures. Following an internal inquiry into this matter, an independent auditor recently was engaged to conduct a forensic audit and to review the business records of Pamrapo Service Corporation. Depending on the outcome of this audit, the independent auditor may provide recommendations regarding procedures and safeguards to be implemented on a going forward basis. At the present time, we cannot predict the outcome or the full impact of the forensic audit on our internal controls, business, results of operations or financial position. Depending upon the result of the forensic audit, however, we may need to record additional commission amounts in our income statement and evaluate whether a restatement of certain financial statements is necessary. In addition, the internal inquiry, forensic audit and related activities have required, and will likely continue to require, us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting and other professional services, and have diverted, and may continue to divert, management’s attention from our business. If we are unsuccessful in our effort to remediate our material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting over time, it may adversely impact our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in the future. As discussed in Part II, Item 9A, Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K, due to a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2008. Although, we have taken, and are continuing to take, actions to remediate the weakness in internal control over financial reporting, if we are unsuccessful in our focused effort to permanently and effectively remediate the weakness over time, it may adversely impact our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in the future accurately and in a timely manner, and may potentially adversely impact our reputation with stockholders. The Bank is subject to a cease and desist order, which could adversely affect us. The Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the OTS. As a regulated savings bank, the Bank’s good standing with its regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation of its business. On September 26, 2008, the Bank consented to the Order issued by the OTS. The Order requires the Bank to strengthen its BSA/AML Program, to strengthen its Compliance Maintenance Program and internal controls related to those matters and to take certain other actions identified by the OTS in the Order. The Bank has and continues to take steps to remediate the deficiencies noted in the Order and to strengthen the Bank’s overall compliance programs, including initiatives implemented to enhance, among other things, the Bank’s BSA/AML Program and its Compliance Management Program. We cannot predict the further impact of the Order upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of 29 Table of Contents asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on us and others in the financial institutions industry. For example, the national economic recession or a further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. We may also face the following risks in connection with these events: • Domestic economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolios, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our business. • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. • The processes we use to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. We rely, in part, on external financing to fund our operations and the unavailability of such funds in the future could adversely impact our growth strategy and prospects. The Bank relies on deposits, advances from the FHLB-NY and other borrowings to fund its operations. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our current capital needs, we may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt refinancing arrangements may require us to pledge some of our assets and enter into covenants that would restrict our ability to incur further indebtedness. There can be no assurance that additional financing sources, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on terms favorable to us. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth strategy and future prospects could be adversely impacted. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including: • Inflation; • Recession; • A rise in unemployment; • Tightening money supply; and • Domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. 30 Table of Contents Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. We expect that the Bank will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations, especially borrowers with loans subject to negative amortization. Negative amortization involves a greater risk during a period of rising interest rates because the loan principal may increase above the amount originally advanced, which could increase the risk of default. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Bank’s net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flows as well as the market value of its securities portfolio and overall profitability. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we require such dividends in the future, may affect our ability to service our debt and pay dividends. The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the OTS, the Bank’s primary regulator, could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations as they become due, or pay dividends on our common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loans held for investment. During the year ended December 31, 2008, loans charged off totaled $124,000. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot provide assurance that we will not need to increase our allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings and profitability. Our business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly in New Jersey, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular within New Jersey, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; 31 Table of Contents • Demand for our products and services may decline; and • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate may decline in value, in turn reducing a client’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans held for investment. A further downturn in the New Jersey real estate market could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in real estate lending in New Jersey. During 2008, the market for residential housing experienced dramatic declines, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures. In recognition of the continued deterioration in the housing market and an expected increase in non-performing assets, we significantly increased our provision for loan losses in fiscal 2008. A further downturn in the New Jersey real estate market could hurt our business because the vast majority of our loans are secured by real estate located within New Jersey. If the significant decline in real estate values continues, especially in New Jersey, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover the principal amount due on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Recent changes in our management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our general business operations. On February 13, 2009, William J. Campbell retired as President, Chief Executive Officer and director of the Company and the Bank. Mr. Campbell had been with the Company and the Bank for over 40 years and had served as President and Chief Executive Officer since 1970. The Company’s board of directors has established a search committee that is in the process of seeking a permanent candidate to fill the position. In the meantime, Kenneth D. Walter, Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and the Bank, has been appointed as Interim President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Bank. This change in our management may be disruptive to our business and during the transition period there may be uncertainty with our stockholders and the Bank’s customers and employees concerning our future direction and performance. Our success will depend on our ability to attract, hire and retain senior management and other key personnel and on the abilities of the new management personnel to function effectively going forward. Our former President and Chief Executive Officer owns a significant amount of our common stock and may make decisions that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, William J. Campbell, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, owned approximately 12.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he will have the ability to significantly influence the election and removal of our board of directors, as well as the outcome of any other matters to be decided by a vote of stockholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even when a change in control may be perceived by some to be in the best interest of our stockholders. 32 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation, which could adversely affect us. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Our business is highly regulated, and the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that there will be no laws, rules or regulations adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could hurt our business. We conduct our business operations primarily in New Jersey. Increased competition within our market area may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that we offer. These competitors include other savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than we are, may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. If we are unable to attract and retain banking clients, we may be unable to continue our loan and deposit growth and our business, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 33 Table of Contents 