Item 1A. Risk Factors. Government investigations may reduce our earnings. On March 29, 2010, the Bank entered into a plea agreement with the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey and the U.S. Department of Justice (collectively, the “United States”) to resolve a previously disclosed investigation into the Bank’s Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering (“BSA/AML”) compliance program. The plea agreement was approved by the Bank and the United States, and was accepted by the United States District Court for New Jersey. Under the plea agreement, the Bank forfeited $5 million to the United States. In addition to the $5 million forfeiture, the Bank agreed to a consent order and payment of a civil money penalty of $5 million assessed concurrently by the OTS relating to the Bank’s BSA/AML compliance controls. The penalty does not require a separate payment to the OTS or United States from the amount forfeited pursuant to the plea agreement. There is a potential for additional losses regarding the United States investigation. Such additional losses would relate to potential criminal fines that may be imposed separately by a court, and civil money penalties that may be imposed by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), a part of the United States Treasury Department, and could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, and regulatory capital ratios. In addition, regardless of the outcome of the investigation, the Company may continue to incur substantial costs in dealing with these matters, which could continue to reduce the Company’s earnings. Forensic audit of Pamrapo Service Corporation may disrupt our business, cause us to incur significant expenses and affect our financial statements for the current and prior periods. As described in Part II, Item 9A, Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K and Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, in August 2008, management became aware that certain commission payments from a third-party broker, which were payable to the Corporation, as required by its policies and procedures, were being paid directly to the manager of Pamrapo Service Corporation (the “Manager”). The direct payments to the Manager were made pursuant to a letter between a third-party broker and the president of the Corporation. These direct payments constituted a change in commission structure, which was made without the approval of the board of directors of the Corporation, as required by its policies and procedures. Following an internal inquiry into this matter, the Bank determined, based upon the knowledge and understanding at the time of the individuals who conducted the inquiries, that $270,357 was owed by the Manager to the Corporation for commissions paid directly to the Manager for the period from August 2007 to December 2008. The $270,357 was repaid by or on behalf of the Manager to the Corporation, and the Company recognized the amount of $270,357 in earnings during the fourth quarter of 2008. On February 24, 2009, the Audit Committee of the Bank engaged independent forensic accountants to assist with an internal investigation of the business and financial records of the Corporation. On May 5, 2009, the independent forensic accountants issued a report to the Bank’s Audit Committee with respect to the results of their internal investigation (the “Report”). The Report indicates that, based upon the information presented to the forensic accountants on or before April 24, 2009 and the procedures that they performed, the forensic accountants determined that the Manager received funds in the form of commission income directly from broker-dealers and insurance carriers beginning in the year 2005 through his termination on February 12, 2009. According to the Report, the independent forensic accountants determined that, as of May 5, 2009, excluding the $270,357 previously paid to the Corporation, an additional $224,559 in commission revenue for the fiscal years 2005 through 2008 is due to the Corporation by the Manager and certain other individuals previously affiliated with the Corporation. Recovery of any of these amounts is subject to several contingencies, including any claims or defenses put forth by any person or entity that the Bank would choose to seek recovery from, including, but not limited to, the former Manager of the Corporation. The amounts are subject to change, based on the receipt of 32 Table of Contents further information. Management has determined that the item is a gain contingency and, in accordance with FASB ASC 450 “Contingencies,” has not reflected any amounts in its consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009. If it is determined that the Corporation is in fact entitled to any of these amounts and they are in fact recovered, the amounts could be material to the Bank’s current and previously issued consolidated financial statements, and restatements of certain consolidated financial statements may be necessary. The Report reflects the determinations of the independent forensic accountants, based upon information received and procedures performed through the date of the Report. Pamrapo’s management, board of directors and Audit Committee are still in the process of evaluating the Report and other information as it becomes available to determine additional amounts due, if any. If we are unsuccessful in our effort to remediate our material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting over time, it may adversely impact our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in the future. As discussed in Part II, Item 9A, Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K, due to a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2009. Although, we have taken, and are continuing to take, actions to remediate the weakness in internal control over financial reporting, if we are unsuccessful in our focused effort to permanently and effectively remediate the weakness over time, it may adversely impact our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in the future accurately and in a timely manner, and may potentially adversely impact our reputation with stockholders. The Bank is subject to two cease and desist orders, which could adversely affect us. The Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the OTS. As a regulated savings bank, the Bank’s good standing with its regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation of its business. On January 21, 2010, the Bank consented to the Order issued by the OTS on the same date. The Order was issued as a result of matters relating to the Bank’s compliance with certain laws and regulations, and deficiencies in its operations and management. The Order requires the Bank to prepare and submit to the OTS an updated three-year business plan for calendar years 2010 to 2012, and to prepare and submit to the OTS a management plan. The Order also required the Bank to appoint, by April 15, 2010, at least three (3) new independent members to the Bank’s board of directors in the event that the sale or merger of the Bank is not completed by March 31, 2010. The Bank, pursuant to the Order, shall not increase its total assets during any quarter in excess of an amount equal to net interest credited on deposit liabilities during the prior quarter without the prior permission of the OTS. The Order also requires the Bank to maintain adequate and effective internal controls and corporate governance policies, procedures and practices, including an internal audit program, an independent compliance oversight program, and an effective internal loan review program and to take certain other actions identified by the OTS in the Order. The Bank has already begun to implement several initiatives to enhance, among other things, its management and corporate governance in accordance with the requirements of the Order. On September 26, 2008, the Bank consented to the 2008 Order. The 2008 Order requires the Bank to strengthen its BSA/AML Program, to strengthen its Compliance Maintenance Program and internal controls related to those matters and to take certain other actions identified by the OTS in the 2008 Order. The Bank has and continues to take steps to remediate the deficiencies noted in the 2008 Order and to strengthen the Bank’s overall compliance programs, including initiatives implemented to enhance, among other things, the Bank’s BSA/AML Program and its Compliance Management Program. We cannot predict the further impact of the Order and the 2008 Order upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. 33 Table of Contents Any delay in completion of the Merger may significantly reduce the benefits expected to be obtained from the Merger. In addition to the required regulatory clearances and approvals, the Merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond the control of BCB and the Company that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. BCB and the Company cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Further, the requirements for obtaining the required approvals could delay the completion of the Merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the Merger may significantly reduce the synergies and other benefits that BCB and the Company expect to achieve if they successfully complete the Merger within the expected timeframe and integrate their respective businesses. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact the share price and the future business results of the Company. There is no assurance that conditions to completion of the Merger will be satisfied, including obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, the price of the Company’s common stock and the future results of the Company could be adversely affected. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers and their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on us. A further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. We may also face the following risks in connection with these events: • Domestic economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and demand, the job market and the demand for other goods and services have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolios, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our business. • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. • The processes we use to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. 34 Table of Contents Liquidity risk could impair the Company’s ability to fund its operations and jeopardize its financial condition. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, equity/debt offerings and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities, or on terms attractive to the Company, could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a reduction in its credit ratings, if any, an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of its business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against the Company, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in it. The Company’s ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to it, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. We rely, in part, on external financing to fund our operations and the unavailability of such funds in the future could adversely impact our growth strategy and prospects. The Bank relies on deposits, advances from the FHLB-NY and other borrowings to fund its operations. In January 2010 the Bank was informed by the FHLB-NY about its decision to impose certain restrictions on the Bank’s credit activities. The Bank now is only able to do short term borrowings (30 days or less) and its eligibility to sell mortgage loans into the MPF Program has been suspended pending a determination by the FHLB-NY that the Bank again meets the eligibility requirements for participation in the MPF Program. The Bank’s line of credit with the FHLB-NY has not been reduced. The Bank also recently was informed by the FRB-NY that the Bank (i) no longer qualifies for uncollateralized daylight credit, (ii) is no longer eligible to borrow under the FRB-NY Discount Window’s primary credit program, rather requests to borrow at the Window will be considered under the secondary credit program and granted on an overnight basis, and (iii) is now required to prefund its Automated Clearing House credit originations. As these restrictions continue to be in place, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our growth strategy and prospects. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our current capital needs, we may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt refinancing arrangements may require us to pledge some of our assets and enter into covenants that would restrict our ability to incur further indebtedness. There can be no assurance that additional financing sources, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on terms favorable to us. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth strategy and future prospects could be adversely affected. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including: • Inflation; • Recession; • Unemployment; • Monetary Policy; and • Domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets; and • Investor and consumer demand. 35 Table of Contents Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. We expect that the Bank will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations, especially borrowers with loans subject to negative amortization. Negative amortization involves a greater risk during a period of rising interest rates because the loan principal may increase above the amount originally advanced, which could increase the risk of default. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Bank’s net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flows as well as the market value of its securities portfolio and overall profitability. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we require such dividends in the future, may affect our ability to service our debt and pay dividends. The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the OTS, the Bank’s primary regulator, could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations as they become due, or pay dividends on our common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may need to continue to increase our allowance for loan losses in material amounts. We have also experienced and may continue to experience increases in net charge-offs. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. While we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance losses may exceed the value of the collateral securing the loans and the allowance may not fully cover any excess loss. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loans held for investment. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot provide assurance that we will not need to increase our allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings and profitability. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Bank to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a $4.0 million provision for loan losses and had net charge-offs of $2.1 million, compared to $1.6 million and $0.1 million respectively during the year ended December 31, 2008. This significant increase in the provision for loan losses is in response to two primary factors: first, the overall deterioration in the housing market in general in New Jersey which has caused an increase in the Bank’s non-performing loans, and second, an additional provision of $0.9 million for a commercial loan to a local hospital. The provision for loan losses included $0.3 million and $0.9 million in 2008 and 2009 respectively and $1.9 million in charge-offs in 2009 related to the above mentioned loan. We expect our loan loss provision to remain at elevated levels until non-performing assets and charge-offs improve. 36 Table of Contents Our business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly in New Jersey, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular within New Jersey, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for our products and services may decline; and • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate may decline in value, in turn reducing a client’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans held for investment. A further downturn in the New Jersey real estate market could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in real estate lending in New Jersey. During 2009, the market for residential housing continued to experience dramatic declines, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures. We significantly increased our provision for loan losses in fiscal year 2009. A further downturn in the New Jersey real estate market could hurt our business because the vast majority of our loans are secured by real estate located within New Jersey. If the significant decline in real estate values continues, especially in New Jersey, the collateral for our loans will provide increasingly less security. As a result, our ability to recover the principal amount due on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. If the underwriting process fails to capture accurate information or proves to be inadequate, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and those losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Recent changes in our management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our general business operations. On February 13, 2009, William J. Campbell retired as President, Chief Executive Officer and director of the Company and the Bank. Mr. Campbell had been with the Company and the Bank for over 40 years and had served as President and Chief Executive Officer since 1970. The Company’s board of directors has established a search committee that is in the process of seeking a permanent candidate to fill the position. In the meantime, Kenneth D. Walter, Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and the Bank, has been appointed as Interim President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Bank. This change in our management may be disruptive to our business and during the transition period there may be uncertainty with our stockholders and the Bank’s customers and employees concerning our future direction and performance. Our success will depend on our ability to attract, hire and retain senior management and other key personnel and on the abilities of the new management personnel to function effectively going forward. 37 Table of Contents Our former President and Chief Executive Officer owns a significant amount of our common stock and may make decisions that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. As of January 12, 2010, William J. Campbell, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, owned approximately 12.18% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he will have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any other matters to be decided by a vote of stockholders. We are subject to extensive regulation, which could adversely affect us. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Our business is highly regulated, and the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that there will be no laws, rules or regulations adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could hurt our business. We conduct our business operations primarily in New Jersey. Increased competition within our market area may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that we offer. These competitors include other savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than we are, may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. If we are unable to attract and retain banking clients, we may be unable to continue our loan and deposit growth and our business, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect the Company’s business and require us to raise additional capital. In addition to the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) announced in the fall of 2008, the U.S. Treasury and the FDIC have taken further steps to support and regulate the financial services industry, that include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, and increasing insurance on bank deposits. Also, the U.S. Congress, through the EESA and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, has imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on the operations of financial services firms participating in the federal programs. These programs subject us and other financial institutions who participate in them to (1) additional restrictions, oversight, reporting obligations and costs; and (2) compensation restrictions that limit our ability to attract and retain executives, each of which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and 38 Table of Contents impose restrictions on the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including aspects such as compensation, interest rates, new and inconsistent consumer protection regulations and mortgage regulation, among others. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation, or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect Pamrapo Bancorp’s financial condition. The Bank’s FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009. The Bank expects to pay significantly higher premiums in the future. A large number of depository institution failures have significantly depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. In order to restore the DIF reserve ratio to its statutorily mandated minimum of 1.15 percent over a period of several years, the FDIC increased deposit insurance premium rates at the beginning of 2009 and imposed a special assessment on June 30, 2009, which amounted to $263,000 for the Bank. Given the continued decline in the DIF balance, the FDIC may impose additional special emergency assessments in the future that will impact the Bank’s capital levels and earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 39 Table of Contents 