ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following factors should be reviewed carefully, in conjunction with the other information contained in this Report and our consolidated financial statements. These factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated and contained in forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. See “Part I—Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on SANCTURA. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from Esprit under the SANCTURA Agreement. SANCTURA is our only FDA-approved product and we believe that revenues derived under the SANCTURA Agreement will continue to account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We are highly dependent on Esprit for the commercialization and marketing of SANCTURA and for performance of its obligations under the SANCTURA Agreement. The failure of Esprit to perform its obligations under this agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, if sales of SANCTURA do not increase, we are unlikely to derive royalties in excess of the minimum royalties under the SANCTURA Agreement and, after the minimum royalty period expires in June 2008, our royalty revenue may decrease substantially. SANCTURA may suffer from generic penetration after the expiration of the market exclusivity period in May 2009 and competes with many once-a-day and other formulations of products to treat OAB. Our long-term success will be highly dependent on our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and commercialize SANCTURA XR. If SANCTURA does not continue to achieve market acceptance or if Esprit provides notice to us that it does not intend to pay us the development milestone related to FDA approval of SANCTURA XR causing the rights to SANCTURA XR to revert to us, then the marketing of SANCTURA XR may be adversely affected and if efforts to develop and market SANCTURA XR are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Because our marketing resources are limited, we may be unable to devote sufficient resources to SANCTURA to achieve increasing market acceptance of SANCTURA in the highly competitive marketplace for overactive bladder therapies. Our failure to expend the resources to adequately promote SANCTURA would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, because we have fewer sales representatives than our competitors, our sales force may be unable to detail successfully to physicians who prescribe overactive bladder medications. We may not be able to retain our current sales representatives. Even if we hire additional representatives, they may not be effective in promoting the sale of SANCTURA. The failure of our sales representatives to be successful in selling SANCTURA would have a material adverse effect on operating results. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture SANCTURA We are currently dependent on Madaus to manufacture SANCTURA and on other third parties in the supply chain, including the manufacturer of trospium chloride, the active pharmaceutical ingredient. If Madaus or any of the other third parties were unable to maintain compliance with FDA requirements for manufacturers of drugs sold in the U.S., we would need to seek alternative sources of supply, which could create disruptions in the supply of SANCTURA. We may not compete successfully in the overactive bladder market Competition in the overactive bladder market is intense, has increased since the launch of SANCTURA in August 2004 and is expected to increase further. SANCTURA may not compete successfully with current drug therapies for overactive bladder or with new drugs which may reach the market in the future. SANCTURA 19 competes with drugs and other therapies for overactive bladder marketed by many large, multinational companies who have substantially greater marketing and financial resources and experience than us. In addition, antimuscarinic and antispasmodics for overactive bladder are the subject of testing or commercialization efforts by other companies, including certain treatments for which NDAs have already been filed or may be filed in the future. Launches of other competitive products are expected to occur in the near future and we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Our license for SANCTURA does not include any patents that we expect to use in commercializing the product for overactive bladder. Our ability to successfully commercialize SANCTURA in the U.S. will depend on the continued availability of market exclusivity under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 commonly known as the Waxman-Hatch Act, which provides protections for certain new products. The Waxman-Hatch Act provides for a period of market exclusivity in the U.S. for SANCTURA for five years from the date of FDA approval, May 28, 2004. The marketing of SANCTURA could be materially adversely affected if the period of market exclusivity is shortened. After this time, there may be generic versions of trospium chloride available to treat overactive bladder at significantly lower prices than SANCTURA, in which case sales of SANCTURA will likely decrease significantly. We cannot predict whether any patents will issue on the applications we have filed for SANCTURA XR, an extended release, once-a-day formulation of SANCTURA. If granted, there can be no assurance that these patents can or will preclude eventual market erosion from new technologies or competing products. If we were unable to obtain a patent on such formulation we would have to rely solely on market exclusivity for this formulation, which would be shorter than five years. We have regulatory and guideline risks On May 28, 2004, the FDA approved SANCTURA. The FDA may impose post-marketing or other regulatory requirements after approval, which could have an adverse affect on the commercialization of SANCTURA. In addition, although SANCTURA has thus far demonstrated an acceptable safety profile in clinical trials, there can be no assurance that the safety profile of the drug would not change when taken in future trials or by a larger population of users. If SANCTURA were to become subject to efficacy or safety concerns, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales, unexpected side effects or regulatory proceedings, the impact on our revenues could be significant. Government health care cost-containment measures can significantly affect our sales and profitability. These include federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations that negatively affect pharmaceutical pricing, such as Medicaid and Medicare; pharmaceutical importation laws; and other laws and regulations that, directly or indirectly, impose governmental controls on the prices at which SANCTURA is sold. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and SANCTURA. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health and science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to the health care and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups or organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of concomitant therapies. Recommendations or guidelines suggesting the reduced use of SANCTURA or the use of competitive or alternative products that are followed by patients and health care providers could result in decreased use of SANCTURA. Acceptable levels of reimbursement for costs of developing and manufacturing of pharmaceutical products and treatments related to those pharmaceutical products by government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs, will have an effect on the successful commercialization of, and attracting collaborative partners to invest in the development of, our products and product candidates. We cannot be sure that reimbursement in the United States or elsewhere will be available for any pharmaceutical products we may 20 develop or, if already available, will not be decreased in the future. The U.S. Congress recently enacted a limited prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients in the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003. While the program established by this statute may increase demand for our products, if we participate in this program, our prices will be negotiated with drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries and are likely to be lower than we might otherwise obtain. Non-Medicare third-party drug procurement organizations may also base the price they are willing to pay on the rate paid by drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our drug products. Any reduction in demand would adversely affect our business. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to obtain collaborative partners to manufacture and commercialize our products, and may not be able to obtain a satisfactory financial return on our own manufacture and commercialization of any future products. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products, including any products that may be offered by us in the future. Cost-cutting measures that health care providers are instituting, and the effect of any health care reform, could materially adversely affect our ability to sell any products that are successfully developed by us and approved by regulators. Moreover, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Our product candidates are early stage and may not be successful or achieve market acceptance. We currently have six compounds which are in various stages of development and have not been approved by the FDA. These product candidates are subject to the risk that any or all of them are found to be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise may fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances. We are unable to predict whether any of these product candidates will receive regulatory clearances or will be successfully manufactured or marketed. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained, the time frames for commercialization of any products are long and uncertain. Even if these product candidates receive regulatory clearance, our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. We rely on the favorable outcome of clinical trials of our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of the pharmaceutical products we are developing, we or our licensees must demonstrate that the product is safe and efficacious for use in each target indication. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive. If clinical trials do not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of certain products under development, we will be materially adversely affected. The results of pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not predict results that will be obtained in large-scale testing or use. Clinical trials of products we are developing may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such products. Regardless of clinical trial results, the FDA may not approve marketing of the product. The costs to obtain regulatory approvals could be considerable and the failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, regulatory approval could have a significant negative effect on our business performance and financial results. Even if pre-launch approval of a product is obtained, the FDA is authorized to impose post-marketing requirements. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials or have not received FDA approval, even after promising results in earlier trials. For example, while there have been three Phase II clinical trials of pagoclone that demonstrated statistically significant efficacy, two in panic disorder and one in GAD, other trials have failed to demonstrate statistically significant efficacy, prompting Pfizer to elect not to pursue further development of the compound and to return to us exclusive, worldwide development and commercialization rights to pagoclone. 21 We will rely on third parties to commercialize and manufacture our products. We have limited sales and marketing capabilities to market our products. Substantial additional funds will be required to complete development and commercialization of our products and, accordingly, we expect to seek corporate partnerships for the manufacture and commercialization of our products. We may not be successful in finding corporate partners and the terms of any such arrangements may not be favorable to us or our security holders. If we are unable to obtain any such corporate partners, development of our product candidates could be delayed or curtailed, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Any collaborative partners may not be successful in commercializing our products or may terminate their collaborative agreements with us. If we obtain any collaborative arrangements, we will depend on the efforts of these collaborative partners and we will have limited or no control over the development, manufacture and commercialization of the products subject to the collaboration. If certain of our collaborative partners terminate the related agreements or fail to develop, manufacture or commercialize products, we would be materially adversely affected. Because we will generally retain a royalty interest in sales of products licensed to third parties, our revenues may be less than if we marketed products directly. We currently contract with third parties for all of our manufacturing needs and do not manufacture any of our own products or product candidates. In order to continue to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize products, we will need to develop, contract for or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. Certain of our requirements for supplies or clinical compounds are filled by purchase orders on an as-requested basis and are not the subject of long-term contracts. As a result, we cannot be certain that manufacturing sources will continue to be available or that we can continue to outsource the manufacturing of these products or product candidates on reasonable terms or at all. Any manufacturing facilities for any of our compounds are subject to FDA inspection both before and after NDA approval to determine compliance with cGMP requirements. There are a limited number of contract manufacturers that operate under cGMP that are capable of manufacturing our products. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing of our products, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of our products or commercialize them. Facilities used to produce our compounds may not have complied, or may not be able to maintain compliance, with cGMP. The cGMP regulations are complex and failure to be in compliance could lead to non-approval or delayed approval of an NDA which would delay product launch or, if approval is obtained, may result in remedial action, penalties and delays in production of material acceptable to the FDA. Currently, Schering’s NEBIDO manufacturing facilities have not been approved by the FDA. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Our failure to acquire and develop additional product candidates will impair our ability to grow. We do not conduct our own research to discover new drug compounds. Instead, we depend on the licensing of compounds from others for development. Therefore, in order to grow, we must continue to acquire and develop additional compounds. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire compounds that meet the criteria we have established. Identifying suitable compounds is a lengthy, complex and uncertain process. In addition, we compete with other companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, for the acquisition of compounds. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional compounds on terms we find acceptable or at all. 22 We need additional funds in the future. Our existing cash resources will be insufficient to commercialize any of our current product candidates on our own. In addition, we continue to expend substantial funds for research and development, marketing, general and administrative expenses and manufacturing. We expect to continue to use substantial cash for operating activities in fiscal 2006 as we continue to fund our development activities, as well as marketing activities related to SANCTURA. We may seek additional funding through corporate collaborations, strategic combinations or public or private equity and debt financing options. Any such corporate collaboration, strategic combination or financial transactions could result in material changes to the capitalization, operations, management and prospects for our business and no assurance can be given that the terms of a strategic transaction would be favorable to us or our security holders. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders will be diluted and future investors may be granted rights superior to those of existing stockholders. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we sell securities in a private offering, we may have to sell such shares at a discount from the market price of our stock which could have a depressive effect on our stock price. In addition, future resales of shares in the public market sold in a private offering could negatively affect our stock price. Our cash requirements and cash resources will vary significantly depending upon the following principal factors: • marketing success of SANCTURA; • the costs, their reimbursements, and progress of research and development programs; • the timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals; and • whether we are successful in either in-licensing or out-licensing products. As a result of the uncertainties and costs associated with business development activities, market conditions and other factors generally affecting our ability to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain sufficient additional funds to satisfy cash requirements in the future or may be required to obtain financing on terms that are not favorable to us. We may have to curtail our operations or delay development of our products. We have a history of losses and expect losses to continue. We have incurred substantial net losses over the past five fiscal years including net losses of approximately $1,500,000, $17,600,000, $31,800,000, $68,200,000 and $53,218,000 for fiscal years 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, and 2005 respectively. At September 30, 2005 we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $422,121,000. We continue to experience losses and to use substantial amounts of cash in operating activities. We will be required to conduct significant development and clinical testing activities for the products we are developing and these activities are expected to result in continued operating losses and use of cash for the foreseeable future. We cannot predict the extent of future losses or the time required to achieve profitability. We may not be profitable in the future. We may never achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We expect to continue to experience fluctuations in revenue as a result of the timing of regulatory filings or approvals, product launches, license fees, royalties, product shipments, and milestone payments. The outcome of the Redux litigation could materially harm us. On September 15, 1997, we announced a market withdrawal of our first commercial prescription product, the weight loss medication Redux, which had been launched by AHP, now Wyeth, our licensee, in June 1996. Following the withdrawal, we have been named, together with other pharmaceutical companies, as a defendant in 23 several thousand product liability legal actions, some of which purport to be class actions, in federal and state courts relating to the use of Redux and other weight loss drugs. The existence of such litigation may materially adversely affect our business. In addition, although we are unable to predict the outcome of any such litigation, if successful uninsured or insufficiently insured claims, or if a successful indemnification claim, were made against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the uncertainties associated with these legal actions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and on our ability to obtain corporate collaborations or additional financing to satisfy cash requirements, to retain and attract qualified personnel, to develop and commercialize products on a timely and adequate basis, to acquire rights to additional products, and to obtain product liability insurance for other products at costs acceptable to us, or at all, any or all of which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On May 30, 2001, we entered into the Indemnity and Release Agreement with AHP, now Wyeth, which provides for indemnification of Redux-related claims brought by plaintiffs who initially elected not to stay in the AHP national class action settlement of diet drug litigation and by those claimants who allege primary pulmonary hypertension, a serious disease involving the blood vessels in the lungs. This agreement also provides for funding of all defense costs related to all Redux-related claims and provides for Wyeth to fund certain additional insurance coverage to supplement our existing product liability insurance. However, Redux-related judgments that are not covered by the Indemnity and Release Agreement with AHP may be insufficiently insured or uninsured. Such claims, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict whether the existence of such litigation may adversely affect our business. We rely on the protection provided by our intellectual property and have limited patent protection on some of our products. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to: • obtain and enforce patent protection on our products and technologies; • maintain trade secrets; and • operate and commercialize products without infringing on the patents or proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance that patent applications filed by us or others, in which we have an interest as assignee, licensee or prospective licensee, will result in patents being granted or that, if granted, any of such patents will afford protection against competitors with similar technology or products, or could not be circumvented or challenged. In addition, certain products we are developing are not covered by any patents and, accordingly, we will be dependent on obtaining market exclusively under the Waxman-Hatch Act for such products. If we are unable to obtain strong proprietary rights protection of our products after obtaining regulatory clearance, competitors may be able to market competing generic products by obtaining regulatory clearance, by demonstrating equivalency to our product, without being required to conduct the lengthy clinical trials required of us. Certain of our agreements provide for reduced royalties, or forgo royalties altogether, in the event of generic competition. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before a potential product can be commercialized, any related patent may expire, or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, reducing any advantage of the patent. Our license for SANCTURA, a compound approved for use in the treatment of overactive bladder, does not include any patents that we expect to use in the commercialization of the product for overactive bladder. 24 Our business may be materially adversely affected if we fail to obtain and retain needed patents, licenses or proprietary information. Others may independently develop similar products. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary: • to enforce any of our patents; • to determine the scope and validity of the patent rights of others; or • in response to legal action against us claiming damages for infringement of patent rights or other proprietary rights or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected product or process. The products being developed by us may conflict with patents which have been or may be granted to competitors, universities or others. Third parties could bring legal actions against us or our sublicensees claiming patent infringement and seeking damages or to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or the use of a process for the manufacture of such products. If any such actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for indemnification, damages and attorneys’ fees in certain cases, we could be required to obtain a license, which may not be available, in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected product or use the affected process. The outcome of any litigation may be uncertain. Any litigation may also result in significant use of management and financial resources. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technology and may determine in some cases that our interest would be better served by reliance on trade secrets or confidentiality agreements rather than patents. No assurance can be made that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to such proprietary technology or disclose such technology or that we can meaningfully protect our rights in such unpatented proprietary technology. We may also conduct research on other pharmaceutical compounds or technologies, the rights to which may be held by, or be subject to, patent rights of third parties. Accordingly, if products based on such technologies are commercialized, such commercial activities may infringe such patents or other rights, which may require us to obtain a license to such patents or other rights. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information which may not be resolved in our favor. Most of our consultants are employed by or have consulting agreements with third parties and any inventions discovered by such individuals will not necessarily become our property. There is a risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, which could adversely affect us. We may depend on market exclusivity for certain of our products. Assuming regulatory approvals are obtained, our ability to commercialize successfully certain drugs may depend on the availability of market exclusivity or patent extension under the Waxman-Hatch Act, which provides protections for certain new products. Under the Waxman-Hatch Act, a company may obtain five years of market exclusivity if the FDA determines such compound to be a chemical entity that has not been the subject of an approved NDA in the past. The period of market exclusivity under the Waxman-Hatch Act is considerably shorter than the exclusivity period afforded by patent protection, which, in the case of some patents, may last up to twenty years from the earliest priority date of the patent directed to the product, its use or method of manufacture. We are relying on market exclusivity under the Waxman-Hatch Act for the twice-a-day formulation of SANCTURA. Our products may be unable to compete successfully with other products. Competition from other pharmaceutical companies is intense and is expected to increase. We are aware of existing products and of products under development by our competitors that address diseases we are targeting and competitors have developed or are developing products or technologies that are, or may compete with our products. 25 Many of the other companies who market or are expected to market competitive drugs or other products are large, multinational companies who have substantially greater marketing and financial resources and experience than us. We may not be able to develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products. In addition, our competitors may develop products that are safer or more effective or less expensive than those we are developing or that would render our products less competitive or obsolete. As a result, our products may not be able to compete successfully. In addition, royalties payable to us under certain conditions may be reduced or eliminated if there is generic competition. Many companies in the pharmaceutical industry also have substantially greater experience in undertaking pre-clinical and clinical testing of products, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing products. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we compete with other companies in acquiring rights and establishing collaborative agreements for the development and commercialization of our products. We could be materially harmed if our agreements were terminated. Our agreements with licensors and licensees generally provide the other party with rights to terminate the agreement, in whole or in part, under certain circumstances. Many of our agreements require us to diligently pursue development of the underlying product or risk loss of the license or incur penalties. Depending upon the importance to us of the product that is subject to any such agreement, this could materially adversely affect our business. In particular, termination of our agreements with Madaus or Esprit, related to SANCTURA, our agreements with Aventis, under which we license pagoclone and aminocandin, or our agreement with Schering, under which we license NEBIDO, could substantially reduce the likelihood of successful commercialization of our product candidates which would materially harm us. The agreements with Esprit, Madaus, Aventis or Schering may be terminated by any of them if we are in material breach of our agreements with them or if we become insolvent or file for bankruptcy protection. We depend upon key personnel and consultants. We have a small number of employees and are dependent on certain executive officers and scientific personnel, including Glenn L. Cooper, our chief executive officer, Noah D. Beerman, our chief business officer, Mark S. Butler, our chief administrative officer and general counsel, Michael W. Rogers, our chief financial officer, Bobby W. Sandage, Jr., our chief scientific officer, and John H. Tucker, our chief sales and marketing officer. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of any of these individuals. In addition, we rely on the assistance of independent consultants to design and supervise clinical trials and prepare FDA submissions. Competition for qualified employees among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies is intense, and the loss of any qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, could adversely affect our business and prospects. Competition to attract and retain pharmaceutical sales people is intense. We may not be able to attract additional qualified employees or retain our existing personnel. We have product liability exposure and insurance uncertainties related to our products. The use of products in clinical trials and the marketing of products may expose us to substantial product liability claims and adverse publicity. Certain of our agreements require us to obtain specified levels of insurance coverage, naming the other party as an additional insured. We currently maintain product liability and clinical trial insurance in the amount of $30,000,000. We may obtain additional coverage for products that may be marketed in the future, including SANCTURA XR. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance coverage, or to obtain insurance in amounts sufficient to protect us or other named parties against liability, at a reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, any insurance obtained may not cover any particular liability claim. We have indemnified certain licensors, licensees and contractors and may be required to indemnify additional licensors, licensees or contractors against product liability claims incurred by them as a result of products we develop or market. If uninsured or insufficiently insured product liability claims arise, or if a successful 26 indemnification claim was made against us, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any payments made by us in connection with product liability litigation could result in significant charges to operations and would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If third parties on which we rely for clinical trials services do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We depend on independent clinical investigators and, in some cases, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct the clinical trials of our product candidates and expect to continue to do so. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials, but we do not control many aspects of their activities. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocol. Our reliance on these third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of our responsibility to comply with the regulations and standards of the FDA relating to good clinical practices. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or the applicable trials plans and protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates or result in enforcement action against us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Other Securities We may issue preferred stock with rights that could affect your rights and prevent a takeover of the business. Our board of directors has the authority, without further approval of our stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, 244,425 of which are currently issued and outstanding. In addition, vesting of shares of our common stock subject to stock awards under our 1997 Equity Incentive Plan accelerates and outstanding options under our stock option plans become immediately exercisable upon certain changes in control of the Company, except under certain conditions. In addition, Delaware corporate law imposes limitations on certain business combinations. These provisions could, under certain circumstances, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company and, accordingly, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have never paid any dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since inception and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. Any dividends on our common stock will be subject to the preferential cumulative annual dividend of $0.1253 per share and $1.00 per share payable on our outstanding Series B preferred stock and Series C preferred stock, respectively, held by Wyeth and dividends payable on any other preferred stock we may issue. If we pay cash dividends on our common stock, certain holders of our securities may be deemed to have received a taxable dividend without the receipt of any cash. If we pay a cash dividend on our common stock which results in an adjustment to the conversion price of our outstanding convertible notes, holders of such notes may be deemed to have received a taxable dividend subject to U.S. federal income tax without the receipt of any cash. The price for our securities is volatile. The market prices for our securities and for securities of emerging growth companies have historically been highly volatile. Future announcements concerning us or our competitors may have a significant impact on the market price of our securities. Factors which may affect the market price for our securities include: • market success of SANCTURA; • results of clinical studies and regulatory reviews; 27 • partnerships, corporate collaborations, and strategic corporate transactions; • announcements by our corporate collaboration partners concerning our products, about which we generally have very limited control, if any, over the timing or content; • changes in the levels we spend to develop, acquire or license new compounds; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; • competitive products; • sales or the possibility of sales of our common stock or other financings; • our results of operations and financial condition including variability in quarterly operating results due to timing and recognition of revenue, receipt of licensing, milestone and royalty payments, and regulatory progress and delays; • proprietary rights; • Redux-related litigation developments; • public concern as to the safety or commercial value of our products; and • general economic conditions. The high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by Nasdaq Stock Market were: $10.00 and $1.16 for fiscal 2001, $12.83 and $0.85 for fiscal 2002, $6.90 and $1.32 for fiscal 2003, $10.25 and $4.86 for fiscal 2004, and $7.45 and $2.41 for fiscal 2005. Our common stock is subject to delisting if our stock price drops below the bid price of $1.00 per share. If we were to fail to meet any of the continued listing requirements for the Nasdaq Stock Market, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, the effects of which could include limited release of a market price of our common stock, limited liquidity for stockholders and limited news coverage and could result in an adverse effect on the market for our common stock. The stock markets also experience significant price and volume fluctuation unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The price for our common stock could be negatively affected if we issue additional shares or if third parties exercise registration rights. As of September 30, 2005, we had 47,165,289 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are eligible for sale without restriction. In addition, Wyeth has the right, under certain circumstances, to require us to register for public sale 622,222 shares of common stock issuable to it upon conversion of the Series B and C preferred stock it owns. We have outstanding registration statements on Form S-3 relating to the resale of our shares of common stock and on Form S-8 relating to shares issuable under our 1989 Stock Option Plan, 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 1997 Equity Incentive Plan, 1998 Employee Stock Option Plan, 2000 Stock Option Plan, and 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. The possibility of sales of such shares, private sales of securities or the possibility of resale of such shares in the public market may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stockholders could be diluted if we issue our shares subject to options, warrants, convertible notes, stock awards or other arrangements. As of September 30, 2005, we had reserved the following shares of our common stock for issuance: • 10,817,308 shares issuable upon conversion of the $72,000,000 Convertible Senior Notes issued in July 2003, which are due in July 2008 (the “Convertible Notes”); • 11,858,295 shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, certain of which may be subject to anti-dilution provisions which provide for the adjustment to the conversion price and number of shares for option and warrant holders if we issue additional securities below certain prices; 28 • 622,222 shares upon conversion of preferred stock owned by Wyeth, subject to anti-dilution provisions; and • 615,651 shares reserved for grant and issuance under our stock option, stock purchase and equity incentive plans. We may grant additional options, warrants or stock awards. To the extent such shares are issued, the interest of holders of our common stock will be diluted. Increased leverage as a result of our convertible debt offering may harm our financial condition and results of operations. At September 30, 2005, we had $72,000,000 of outstanding debt reflected in our balance sheet relating to our outstanding Convertible Notes. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future and the Convertible Notes do not restrict our future issuance of indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: • a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; • increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and • depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to the success of our development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical products, general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required, among other things: • to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes; • to sell selected assets; or • to reduce or delay planned expenditures on clinical trials, and development and commercialization activities. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 