ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following factors should be reviewed carefully, in conjunction with the other information contained in this Report and our consolidated financial statements. These factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated and contained in forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. See “Part I—Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements.” Risks Relating to Our Business We will be dependent on our marketed products and the ability of Allergan to perform its obligations with respect to SANCTURA and SANCTURA XR. We expect to derive a substantial portion of our revenue in fiscal 2008 from only three products, provided this will increase to four if we and Allergan are able to successfully launch SANCTURA XR which was approved by the FDA on August 3, 2007. One is SANCTURA, a treatment for overactive bladder, which we co-promote with our marketing partner, Allergan. The others are VANTAS, a product for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer, and SUPPRELIN LA, for the treatment of central precocious puberty. We believe that revenues derived under our agreement with Allergan and from the sale of VANTAS and SUPPRELIN LA will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. In October 2007, Allergan became our new partner with respect to SANCTURA and SANTURA XR in connection with its acquisition of Esprit. Our agreement with Allergan is referred to herein as the Allergan Agreement. We are highly dependent on Allergan for the commercialization and marketing of SANCTURA and SANCTURA XR in the U.S. and for performance of its obligations under the Allergan Agreement. Under the terms of the Allergan Agreement, Allergan will be responsible for all U.S. marketing and sales activities relating to SANCTURA, and SANCTURA XR when launched (we have the right co-promote SANCTURA XR through March 2009). As such, we will depend on Allergan to devote sufficient resources to effectively market SANCTURA and SANCTURA XR. The failure of Allergan to effectively market SANCTURA or SANCTURA XR or perform its obligations under the Allergan Agreement, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently market VANTAS and SUPPRELIN LA ourselves through our approximately 100-person specialty sales force. Our specialty sales force may not be able to successfully market and sell such products. Moreover, because our marketing resources are limited, we may be unable to devote sufficient resources to our marketed products to maintain, or achieve increasing, market acceptance of such products in their highly competitive marketplaces. If we are unable to successfully market and sell such products, it will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our product candidates may not be successfully developed or achieve market acceptance. In particular, we are dependent on FDA approval and market acceptance of NEBIDO. We currently have multiple compounds or products which are in various stages of development and have not been approved by the FDA. These product candidates are subject to the risk that any or all of them are found to be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise may fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances or receive such clearances on a timely basis. We expect to derive a substantial portion of our long term revenues from the market acceptance of NEBIDO if it is approved. On November 1, 2007 we announced that the FDA accepted for review our NDA for NEBIDO. The FDA Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) target action date for NEBIDO is June 27, 2008. We would be materially adversely affected if we are unable to obtain FDA approval for NEBIDO or if the FDA should require additional testing prior to FDA approval. In addition, the FDA may impose post-marketing or other regulatory requirements after approval, which could have an adverse affect on the commercialization of 25 Table of Contents NEBIDO. Even if NEBIDO receives regulatory clearance, there can be no assurance that it will achieve or maintain market acceptance. If NEBIDO does not achieve market acceptance it will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are unable to predict whether any of our other product candidates, such as VALSTAR and the octreotide implant, will receive regulatory clearances or will be successfully manufactured or marketed. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained, the time frames for commercialization of any products are long and uncertain. Even if these product candidates receive regulatory clearance, there can be no assurance that such products will achieve or maintain market acceptance which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The product candidates that we are attempting to develop differ from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of more established drugs and therapies manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. If any of our products or product candidates fails to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to market and sell the products successfully, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and could harm our business. We may not compete successfully in the urology and endocrinology markets, including for sales of our products as well as the acquisition of additional compounds. Our products compete in the urology and endocrinology markets. The competition in the urology and endocrinology markets is intense and is expected to increase. Our products compete with many current drug therapies or with new drugs which may reach the market in the future. Launches of other competitive products may occur in the near future, and we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. We compete against biotechnology companies, universities, government agencies, and other research institutions. Many of the companies who market or are expected to market competitive drugs or other products are large, multinational companies who have substantially greater marketing and financial resources and experience than us. We may not be able to develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products. In addition, our competitors may develop products that are safer or more effective or less expensive than those we are developing or that would render our products less competitive or obsolete. In addition, although we will have proprietary protection for VANTAS and other products we are developing, we could face competition from generic substitutes of these products and our other marketed products, such as SANCTURA. Because generic manufacturers are not exposed to development risks for such generic substitutes, these manufacturers can capture market share by selling generic products at lower prices, which can reduce the market share held by the original product. Sales of competing products may cause a decrease in the selling price or units sold for our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our net product sales, gross margin and cash flows from operations. In the event our products were unable to be sold at the rate we currently anticipate, we could potentially have excess inventory, resulting in an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. Many companies in the pharmaceutical industry also have substantially greater experience in undertaking pre-clinical and clinical testing of products, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing products. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we compete with other companies in acquiring rights and establishing collaborative agreements for the development and commercialization of our products. 26 Table of Contents In particular, our marketed products and near term product candidates compete against the following products: • SANCTURA and SANCTURA XR, if launched, compete against anticholinergics, such as Detrol and Detrol LA (tolterodine) by Pfizer, Ditropan and Ditropan XL (oxybutynin) by Johnson & Johnson, Inc., Oxytrol (oxybutynin transdermal patch) by Watson Pharmaceuticals, Vesicare (solifenacin) by Astellas Pharma US, Inc. and Glaxo Smith Kline, Enablex (darifenacin) by Novartis A.G., generic oxybutynin, and generic oxybutynin extended release; • VANTAS competes against TAP Pharmaceutical Products’ Lupron and Aventis’ Eligard, both multiple injection formulations that deliver leuprolide; Watson Pharmaceuticals’ Trelstar, a multiple injection formulation that delivers triptorelin; AstraZeneca’s Zoladex, a biodegradable rod that delivers goserelin for up to three months; and BayerSchering’s Viadur, a rigid metal implant that releases leuprolide over a 12-month period; • NEBIDO, if approved and launched, will compete against gels, such as AndroGel by Solvay and Testim by Auxilium, transdermal patch systems, such as AndroDerm by Watson, and multiple injectable products currently marketed in the U.S. which require more frequent injections than NEBIDO; • SUPPRELIN LA competes against TAP Pharmaceutical Products’ Lupron Depot-PED; and • VALSTAR, if approved and launched, is the only product approved by the FDA for therapy of bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG)-refractory carcinoma in situ (CIS) of the urinary bladder. Physicians may not prescribe, and patients may not accept, our products if we do not promote our products effectively. Factors that could affect our success in marketing our products include: • the adequacy and effectiveness of our sales force and that of any co-promotion partners; • the adequacy and effectiveness of our production, distribution and marketing capabilities; • the success of competing products, including generics; and • the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors. In addition, we do not conduct our own research to discover new drug compounds. Instead, we depend on the acquisition of compounds from others for development through licensing, partnerships, corporate collaborations, strategic corporate transactions or company acquisitions. Therefore, in order to grow, we must continue to acquire and develop additional compounds. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire compounds that meet the criteria we have established. Identifying suitable compounds is a lengthy, complex and uncertain process. In addition, we compete with other companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, for the acquisition of compounds. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional compounds through licensing or strategic acquisitions of selected assets or businesses, on terms we find acceptable or at all. We rely on third parties with respect to manufacturing, distribution and commercialization of certain of our products as well as products we have out-licensed. We are currently dependent on Madaus GmbH to manufacture SANCTURA, BayerSchering to manufacture NEBIDO and third parties to manufacture SANCTURA XR. We are also dependent on third parties in the supply chain, for the manufacture of trospium chloride, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in SANCTURA and SANCTURA XR, as well as for the packaging of SANCTURA and SANCTURA XR. If Madaus or any of these third parties were unable to achieve or maintain compliance with FDA requirements for manufacturers of drugs sold in the U.S., we would need to seek alternative sources of supply, which could create disruptions in the supply of SANCTURA, SANCTURA XR or NEBIDO. In addition, we are reliant on third parties for 27 Table of Contents manufacturing relating to our non-core product candidates, such as PRO 2000 and pagoclone. Reliance on third-party manufacturers for the manufacture of most of our products, entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured these products ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Any manufacturing facilities for any of our compounds are subject to FDA inspection both before and after NDA approval to determine compliance with cGMP requirements. There are a limited number of contract manufacturers that operate under cGMP that are capable of manufacturing our products. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing of our products, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of our product candidates or commercialize them. Facilities used to produce our compounds may not have complied, or may not be able to maintain compliance, with cGMP. The cGMP regulations are complex and failure to be in compliance could lead to non-approval or delayed approval of an NDA which would delay product launch or, if approval is obtained, may result in remedial action, penalties and delays in production of material acceptable to the FDA We expect to seek corporate partnerships for the manufacture and commercialization of our products. We may not be successful in finding corporate partners and the terms of any such arrangements may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to obtain any such corporate partners, development of our product candidates could be delayed or curtailed, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Any collaborative partners may not be successful in commercializing our products or may terminate their collaborative agreements with us. If we enter into any collaborative arrangements, we will depend on the efforts of these collaborative partners and we will have limited or no control over the development, manufacture and commercialization of the products subject to the collaboration. If certain of our collaborative partners terminate the related agreements or fail to develop, manufacture or commercialize our products, we would be materially adversely affected. Because we expect generally to retain a royalty interest in sales of products licensed to third parties, our revenues may be less than if we marketed products directly. We have out-licensed to third parties the development and commercialization efforts of many of our non-core products and product candidates such as aminocandin and IP 751. We are dependent on such third parties with respect to development and commercialization of such products and product candidates and we have limited or no influence over their efforts and activities. Reliance on third parties for such efforts entails risks, many of which we would not be subject if we developed these products ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance, the possibility of breach of the licensing agreement by the third party and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. In addition, the occurrence of any such events or any other failure by these third parties to adequately develop or commercialize these products or product candidates could materially adversely effect our operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer of some of our products, we are subject to risks of reliance on single suppliers, interruptions on the manufacturing process and regulatory requirements. As a manufacturer of some of our products and product candidates, we are subject to a variety of risks, including risks pertaining to reliance on single suppliers, interruptions on the manufacturing process and regulatory requirements. We currently rely on single suppliers for some of our products and product candidates, including in particular histrelin, the active ingredient in VANTAS, SUPPRELIN LA and the octreotide implant. Any alternate sources of these raw materials and services may not be immediately available to us and may not meet specifications or requirements of us or the FDA. Consequently, if any of our suppliers are unable or unwilling to 28 Table of Contents supply us with these raw materials in sufficient quantities with the correct specifications, or provide services on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to manufacture our products or our product candidates in a timely manner or at all, which could materially adversely effect our operations and financial condition. Any interruption in the supply or manufacturing of our products or product candidates may adversely impact sales of our products or the development of our product candidates. Any lack of supply during such the period of such interruption may have an adverse impact on our future sales because physicians may have elected to use alternative treatments during this time frame or may, as a result of this interruption, permanently switch to another product. For example, prior to the merger with Indevus, Valera experienced two separate disruptions in its manufacturing of VANTAS due to issues caused by its supply of histrelin. These difficulties delayed the manufacturing of VANTAS for several weeks and directly impacted Valera’s supply of VANTAS in 2005. Also, VALSTAR was withdrawn from the market in 2002 due to a manufacturing problem. In the future, we may experience other disruptions in our manufacturing process for these and our products and product candidates which may adversely impact sales and development. Pharmaceutical products are required to be manufactured under regulations known as current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP. Before commercializing a new product, manufacturers must demonstrate compliance with the applicable cGMP regulations, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements, as well as the maintenance of extensive records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding foreign and state authorities, including unannounced inspections, and must be licensed before they can be used in commercial manufacturing for products generated through the use of their technology. In addition, cGMP requirements are constantly evolving, and new or different requirements may apply in the future. After regulatory approvals are obtained, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems or the failure to maintain compliance with existing or new regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product, withdrawal of the product from the market, seizures, the shutdown of manufacturing facilities, injunctions, monetary fines and civil or criminal sanctions. We may also encounter problems with the following: • production yields; • raw materials; • shortages of qualified personnel; • compliance with FDA regulations, including the demonstration of purity and potency; • changes in FDA requirements; • controlling production costs; and • development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. In addition, we are required to register our manufacturing facilities with the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The facilities are subject to inspections confirming compliance with cGMP or other regulations. If we fail to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug product, or revocation of pre-existing approval for a product, such as VANTAS or SANCTURA, which would eliminate a substantial source of our revenue and could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We also currently contract with third parties for most of our manufacturing needs and do not manufacture any of our own products or product candidates, except for VANTAS and SUPPRELIN LA. We do not currently have any substitute manufacturing facilities and arrangements in place with respect to our manufacturing facility now used for VANTAS and SUPPRELIN LA. As such, if we are unable to continue to use our current 29 Table of Contents manufacturing facility for any reason, including regulatory non-compliance or otherwise, it could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot be certain that alternative manufacturing sources will be available on reasonable terms or at all. To continue to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize products, we will need to develop, contract for or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. Certain of our requirements for supplies or clinical compounds are filled by purchase orders on an as-requested basis and are not the subject of long-term contracts. As a result, we cannot be certain that manufacturing sources will continue to be available or that we can continue to outsource the manufacturing of these products or product candidates on reasonable terms or at all. We rely on the protection provided by our intellectual property and have limited patent protection on some of our products and we are dependent on market exclusivity for some of our products. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to: • obtain and enforce patent protection on our products and technologies; • maintain trade secrets; and • operate and commercialize products without infringing on the patents or proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance that patent applications filed by us or others, in which we have an interest as assignee, licensee or prospective licensee, will result in patents being granted or that, if granted, any of such patents will afford protection against competitors with similar technology or products, or could not be circumvented or challenged. In addition, certain products we are developing or selling are not covered by any patents and, accordingly, we will be dependent on obtaining market exclusively under the Waxman-Hatch Act for such products. Under the Waxman-Hatch Act, a company may obtain five years of market exclusivity if the FDA determines such compound to be a chemical entity that has not been the subject of an approved NDA in the past. The period of market exclusivity under the Waxman-Hatch Act is considerably shorter than the exclusivity period afforded by patent protection, which, in the case of some patents, may last up to twenty years from the earliest priority date of the patent directed to the product, our use or method of manufacture. If we are unable to obtain strong proprietary rights protection of our products after obtaining regulatory clearance, competitors may be able to market competing generic products by obtaining regulatory clearance, by demonstrating equivalency to our product, without being required to conduct the lengthy and expensive clinical trials required of us. Certain of our agreements provide for reduced royalties, or forgo royalties altogether, in the event of generic competition. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before a product candidate can be commercialized, any related patent may expire, or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, reducing any advantage of the patent. Our license for SANCTURA, a compound approved for use in the treatment of overactive bladder, does not include any patents used in the commercialization of the product. We do not otherwise currently own or have a license to issued patents that cover our SANCTURA product. Our ability to successfully commercialize SANCTURA in the U.S. will depend on the continued availability of market exclusivity under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as the Waxman-Hatch Act, which provides protections for certain new products. The Waxman-Hatch Act provides for a period of market exclusivity in the U.S. for SANCTURA for five years from the date of FDA approval, May 28, 2004. The marketing of SANCTURA could be materially adversely affected if the period of market exclusivity is shortened. After this time, there may be generic versions of trospium chloride available to treat overactive bladder at significantly lower prices than SANCTURA, in which case sales of SANCTURA will likely decrease significantly. 30 Table of Contents Although we have patent applications that have been published pertaining to SANCTURA XR, the applications continue to be pending and we cannot predict whether any patents will issue on such applications. If granted, there can be no assurance that these patents can or will preclude eventual market erosion from new technologies or competing products. If we are unable to obtain a patent on such formulation we will have to rely solely on market exclusivity for this formulation, which will be shorter than five years. Further, we will not have exclusive rights with respect to the sale of VALSTAR because the product candidate is not covered by any patents or orphan drug exclusivity. As a result, competitors may compete with us by, among other things, introducing a generic version of the product or a similar product that contains the active ingredient, valrubicin. Our business may be materially adversely affected if we fail to obtain and retain needed patents, licenses or proprietary information. Others may independently develop similar products. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary: • to enforce any of our patents; • to determine the scope and validity of the patent rights of others; or • in response to legal action against us claiming damages for infringement of patent rights or other proprietary rights or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected product or process. The products marketed by us or our licensees or being developed by us may infringe patents issued to competitors, universities or others. Third parties could bring legal actions against us or our sublicensees claiming patent infringement and seeking damages or to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or the use of a process for the manufacture of such products. If any such actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for indemnification, damages and attorneys’ fees in certain cases, we could be required to obtain a license, which may not be available, in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected product or use the affected process. If a license is not available to us, we may be forced to abandon the related product. The outcome of any litigation may be uncertain. Any litigation may also result in significant use of management and financial resources. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technology and may determine in some cases that our interest would be better served by reliance on trade secrets or confidentiality agreements rather than patents. No assurance can be made that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to such proprietary technology or disclose such technology or that we can meaningfully protect our rights in such unpatented proprietary technology. We may also conduct research on other pharmaceutical compounds or technologies, the rights to which may be held by, or be subject to, patent rights of third parties. Accordingly, if products based on such technologies are commercialized, such commercial activities may infringe such patents or other rights, which may require us to obtain a license to such patents or other rights. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information which may not be resolved in our favor. Most of our consultants are employed by or have consulting agreements with third parties and any inventions discovered by such individuals will not necessarily become our property. There is a risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, which could adversely affect us. 31 Table of Contents The successful commercialization of our products will depend on obtaining reimbursement at adequate levels from government authorities, private health insurers and Medicare/Medicaid for patient use of these products. Sales of pharmaceutical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers. These third party payors control healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for healthcare products. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services and altering reimbursement levels. The levels at which government authorities and private health insurers reimburse physicians or patients for the price they pay for our current marketed products or products we may develop could affect the extent to which we are able to commercialize these products. We cannot be sure that reimbursement in the United States or elsewhere will be available for any pharmaceutical products we may develop or, if already available, will not be decreased in the future. The U.S. Congress recently enacted a limited prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients in the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003. While the program established by this statute may increase demand for our products, if we participate in this program, our prices will be negotiated with drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries and are likely to be lower than we might otherwise obtain. Non-Medicare third-party drug procurement organizations may also base the price they are willing to pay on the rate paid by drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our drug products. Any reduction in demand would adversely affect our business. In particular, Future Medicare reimbursement levels may decline for VANTAS, which would have an adverse effect on our net product sales. Reimbursement levels are currently set by the numerous Medicare carriers in the United States which, in the aggregate, cover all fifty states. Certain Medicare carriers have a policy which sets the reimbursement rate for VANTAS based on our average selling price (“ASP”). Other Medicare carriers have a policy that applies the least costly alternative, or LCA, methodology to VANTAS. LCA is a payment methodology that allows Medicare carriers to pay the same reimbursement for drugs that have been determined by Medicare to be “medically equivalent.” VANTAS is currently the least costly alternative in the class of LHRH drugs. Further, certain Medicare carriers have a policy which segregates twelve-month products from all other dosages, including one, three, four and six month injectable products, and reimburses at different rates for these two groups of products, or a split policy. Finally, there are some Medicare carriers which state they have a policy which reimburses on an ASP or LCA methodology, but which we believe make payments based upon a split policy. We are devoting internal and external resources to determine the impact and fairness of these various policies. In the states where certain Medicare carriers have adopted a split policy, in writing or in practice, we are at an economic disadvantage to the injectable products which are reimbursed at higher annual rates. While we are challenging the basis for these reimbursement policies with the Medicare carriers, there is no guarantee that our challenge will be successful. Significant uncertainty generally exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Our ability to achieve acceptable levels of reimbursement for product candidates will affect our ability to successfully commercialize, and attract collaborative partners to invest in the development of, our product candidates. Reimbursement may not be available for products that we may develop and reimbursement or coverage levels may reduce the demand for, or the price of products that we may develop. If we cannot maintain coverage for our existing marketed products or obtain adequate reimbursement for other products we develop, the market for those products may be limited. Acceptable levels of reimbursement will also have an effect on our ability to attract collaborative partners to invest in the development of, our products and product candidates. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to obtain collaborative partners to manufacture and commercialize our products and product candidates, and may not be able to obtain a satisfactory financial return on our own manufacturing and commercialization of any future products. 32 Table of Contents To be successful, our product candidates must be accepted by the health care community, which can be very slow to adopt or be unreceptive to new products. Our business is dependent on market acceptance of our products by physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community. Medical doctors’ willingness to prescribe, and patients’ willingness to accept, our products depend on many factors, including: • perceived safety and efficacy of our products; • convenience and ease of administration; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use; • availability of alternative treatments; • cost effectiveness; • effectiveness of our marketing strategy and the pricing of our products; • publicity concerning our products or competing products; and • our ability to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement. If our products are not accepted by physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community, it will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on the favorable outcome of clinical trials of our product candidates including NEBIDO and the octreotide implant. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of the pharmaceutical product candidates we are developing, we or our licensees must demonstrate that the product is safe and efficacious for use in each target indication. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive. If clinical trials do not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of certain products under development, we will be materially adversely affected. The results of pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not predict results that will be obtained in large-scale testing or use. Clinical trials of products we are developing may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such products. In particular, NEBIDO has thus far demonstrated an acceptable safety profile in clinical trials, there can be no assurance that the safety profile of the drug would not change when taken in future trials or by a larger population of users. Regardless of clinical trial results, the FDA may not approve marketing of the product. The costs to obtain regulatory approvals are considerable and the failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, regulatory approval could have a significant negative effect on our business performance and financial results. Even if pre-launch approval of a product is obtained, the FDA is authorized to impose post-marketing requirements. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including Indevus, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials or have not received FDA approval, even after promising results in earlier trials. For example, while there were multiple clinical trials of pagoclone that demonstrated statistically significant efficacy, while but other trials of pagoclone were unsuccessful. These unsuccessful trials prompted Pfizer (our previous licensee of this compound) to elect not to pursue further development of the compound and to return to us all rights to pagoclone which resulted in a material adverse impact on our stock price. We rely on third parties to conduct certain of the clinical trials for our product candidates, and if they do not perform their obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates. We design the clinical trials for our product candidates, but we rely on academic institutions, private physician offices, corporate partners, contract research organizations and other third parties to assist in the managing and monitoring of these trials. Accordingly, we may have less control over the timing and other 33 Table of Contents aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted the trials entirely on our own. For example, we are conducting certain clinical trials for the octreotide implant in Europe; however, we have employed a contract research organization to monitor the trials. We will also contract with a third party to handle the data management for these trials. Although we rely on, and will continue to rely on, third parties to manage the data from our clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with our general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practice, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or the applicable trials plans and protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates or result in enforcement action against us. We have regulatory and guideline and related pricing risks. Our marketed products have been approved by the FDA. The FDA may impose post-marketing or other regulatory requirements after approval, which could have an adverse affect on the commercialization of these products. In addition, although these products have thus far demonstrated an acceptable safety profile in clinical trials, there can be no assurance that the safety profile of the drugs would not change when assessed in future trials or when used by a larger patient population. If our products become subject to efficacy or safety concerns, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales, unexpected side effects or regulatory proceedings, the impact on our revenues could be significant. Government health care cost-containment measures can significantly affect our sales and profitability. These include federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations that negatively affect pharmaceutical pricing, such as Medicaid and Medicare, pharmaceutical importation laws, and other laws and regulations that, directly or indirectly, impose governmental controls on the prices at which our products are sold. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and our products. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health and science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to the health care and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups or organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of concomitant therapies. Recommendations or guidelines suggesting the reduced use of our products or the use of competitive or alternative products that are followed by patients and health care providers could result in decreased use of our products. In both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals in recent years to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to profitably sell our marketed products and any other products that we may develop. These proposals include prescription drug benefit proposals for Medicare beneficiaries and measures that would limit or prohibit payments for certain medical treatments or subject the pricing of drugs to government control. Legislation creating a prescription drug benefit and making certain changes in Medicaid reimbursement has been enacted by Congress and signed by the President. Additionally, Medicare regulations implementing the prescription drug benefit became effective as of January 1, 2006. These and other regulatory and legislative changes or proposals may affect our ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our existing products and any other products that we may develop. In addition, in many foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of 34 Table of Contents prescription drugs is subject to government control. If our products are or become subject to government regulation that limits or prohibits payment for our products, or that subject the price of our products to governmental control, our ability to sell our current marketed products and other products we may develop in commercially acceptable quantities at profitable prices may be harmed. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products, including any products that may be offered by us in the future. Cost-cutting measures that health care providers are instituting, and the effect of any health care reform, could materially adversely affect our ability to sell any products that we successfully develop and are approved by regulators. Moreover, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. The regulatory approval process outside the U.S. varies depending on foreign regulatory requirements, and failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent the marketing of our products in those jurisdictions. We have worldwide rights to market many of our products and product candidates. We intend to seek approval of and market our products outside of the U.S. For example, we have agreements to license VANTAS in Canada, South Africa, Asia and Argentina. To market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. Approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must still be obtained prior to manufacturing or marketing that product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval set forth above, and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of any other country, nor does the approval by foreign regulatory authorities in one country ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or the FDA. Other than the approval of VANTAS for marketing in the European Union and certain other foreign jurisdictions, we may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any foreign market. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain required approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to generate revenue from abroad will be adversely affected. We have product liability exposure and insurance uncertainties related to our products. The use of products in clinical trials and the marketing of products may expose us to substantial product liability claims and adverse publicity. Certain of our agreements require us to obtain specified levels of insurance coverage, naming the other party as an additional insured. We currently maintain product liability and clinical trial insurance in the amount of $40,000,000. We may obtain additional coverage for products that may be marketed in the future. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance coverage, or to obtain insurance in amounts sufficient to protect us or other named parties against liability, at a reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, any insurance obtained may not cover any particular liability claim. We have indemnified certain licensors, licensees and contractors and may be required to indemnify additional licensors, licensees or contractors against product liability claims incurred by them as a result of products we develop or market. If uninsured or insufficiently insured product liability claims arise, or if a successful indemnification claim was made against us, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any payments made by us in connection with product liability litigation could result in significant charges to operations and would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents The outcome of the Redux litigation could materially harm us. On September 15, 1997, we announced a market withdrawal of our first commercial prescription product, the weight loss medication Redux, which had been launched by AHP, now Wyeth, our licensee, in June 1996. Following the withdrawal, we have been named, together with other pharmaceutical companies, as a defendant in several thousand product liability legal actions, some of which purport to be class actions, in federal and state courts relating to the use of Redux and other weight loss drugs. The existence of such litigation may materially adversely affect our business. In addition, although we are unable to predict the outcome of any such litigation, if successful uninsured or insufficiently insured claims, or if a successful indemnification claim, were made against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the uncertainties associated with these legal actions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and on our ability to obtain corporate collaborations or additional financing to satisfy cash requirements, to retain and attract qualified personnel, to develop and commercialize products on a timely and adequate basis, to acquire rights to additional products, and to obtain product liability insurance for other products at costs acceptable to us, or at all, any or all of which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On May 30, 2001, we entered into an Indemnity and Release Agreement with AHP, now Wyeth, which provides for indemnification of Redux-related claims brought by plaintiffs who initially elected not to stay in the AHP national class action settlement of diet drug litigation and by those claimants who allege primary pulmonary hypertension, a serious disease involving the blood vessels in the lungs. This agreement also provides for funding of all defense costs related to all Redux-related claims and provides for Wyeth to fund certain additional insurance coverage to supplement our existing product liability insurance. However, there can be no assurance that uninsured or insufficiently insured Redux-related claims or Redux-related claims for which we are not otherwise indemnified or covered under the AHP indemnity and release agreement will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, results of operations or financial condition or that the potential of any such claims would not adversely affect our ability to obtain sufficient financing to fund operations. We are unable to predict whether the existence of such litigation may adversely affect our business. Pursuant to agreements we have with Les Laboratories Servier, from whom we in-licensed rights to Redux, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the manufacturer of Redux, and other parties, we may be required to indemnify such parties for Redux-related liabilities. We are unable to predict whether such indemnification obligations, if they arise, may adversely affect our business. We could be materially harmed if our agreements were terminated. Our agreements with licensors and licensees generally provide the other party with rights to terminate the agreement, in whole or in part, under certain circumstances. Many of our agreements require us to diligently pursue development of the underlying product or product candidate or risk loss of the license or incur penalties. Depending upon the importance to us of the product that is subject to any such agreement, this could materially adversely affect our business. In particular, termination of our agreements with Allergan, Madaus, or Helsinn Chemicals SA and Helsinn Advanced Synthesis SA, related to SANCTURA and SANCTURA XR, our agreements with BayerSchering, under which we licenses NEBIDO, or our agreement with Aventis, under which we license pagoclone, would materially harm us. The agreements with Allergan, Madaus, Aventis or BayerSchering may be terminated by any of them if we are in material breach of our agreements with them or if we become insolvent or file for bankruptcy protection. Termination of the supply agreement with Plantex USA Inc. for the supply of valrubicin, the active pharmaceutical ingredient for VALSTAR, could significantly hinder the potential to commercialize VALSTAR. 36 Table of Contents We will need additional funds in the near future. We believe that our existing cash resources will be sufficient to fund our planned operations through December 2008. Our cash requirements and cash resources will vary significantly depending upon the following principal factors: • marketing success of SANCTURA, VANTAS and SUPPRELIN LA; • launch and marketing success of SANCTURA XR; • approval, launch and marketing success of NEBIDO; • the costs and progress of our research and development programs; • the timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals; and • the timing and cash flows of in-licensing or out-licensing products. In addition, we continue to expend substantial funds for research and development, marketing, general and administrative expenses and manufacturing. We expect to continue to use substantial cash for operating activities in fiscal 2008 as we continue to fund our development activities for NEBIDO, the octreotide implant and other product candidates, as well as sales and marketing activities VANTAS, SUPPRELIN LA and VALSTAR. We are also co-promoting SANCTURA and SANCTURA XR. We may seek or receive additional funding through corporate collaborations, strategic combinations or public or private equity and debt financing options. Any such corporate collaboration, strategic combination or financial transactions could result in material changes to the capitalization, operations, management and prospects for our business and no assurance can be given that the terms of any such transaction would be favorable to us or our security holders. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders will be diluted and future investors may be granted rights superior to those of existing stockholders. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we sell securities in a private offering, we may have to sell such shares at a discount from the market price of our stock which could have a negative effect on our stock price. In addition, future resales of shares in the public market sold in a private offering could negatively affect our stock price. As a result of the uncertainties and costs associated with business development activities, market conditions and other factors generally affecting our ability to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain sufficient additional funds to satisfy cash requirements in the future or may be required to obtain financing on terms that are not favorable to us. We may have to curtail our operations or delay development of our products. We have a history of losses and expect losses to continue. We have incurred substantial net losses over the past five fiscal years, including net losses of approximately $31,800,000, $68,200,000, $53,200,000, $50,600,000 and $103,800,000 for fiscal years 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. At September 30, 2007 we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $576,500,000. We continue to experience losses and to use substantial amounts of cash in operating activities. We will be required to conduct significant development and clinical testing activities for the products we are developing and these activities are expected to result in continued operating losses and use of cash for the foreseeable future. We cannot predict the extent of future losses or the time required to achieve profitability. We may not be profitable in the future. We may never achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We expect to continue to experience fluctuations in revenue as a result of the timing of regulatory filings or approvals, product launches, license fees, royalties, product shipments, and milestone payments. We also continue to expect fluctuations in expense from the timing of clinical trials, payments to licensors for development milestones, and in licensing fees for new product candidates. 37 Table of Contents We may be adversely impacted if our controls over external financial reporting fail or are circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, this shortcoming could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. This reporting requirement could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulation concerning control and procedures could have a material effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Any of these events could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our shares, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funding. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees and as executive officers. As we continue to evolve from a company that was primarily involved in development to one also involved in commercialization, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. In order to continue to expand our current sales and commercialize our other product candidates, particularly NEBIDO, we currently anticipate that we will need to add some managerial, selling, operational, financial and other employees over the next two years. Expansion may place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Moreover, higher than expected market growth of our products, the acquisition or in-licensing of additional products, as well as the development and commercialization of our other product candidates or marketing arrangements with third parties, could accelerate our hiring needs beyond our current expectations. To manage further growth, we will be required to continue to improve existing, and implement additional, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our anticipated growth and we may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our business goals. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls that could expose us to an increased risk of the occurrence of financial or accounting irregularities or fraud. We may be unable to integrate successfully the businesses of Valera and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. In April 2007, we completed our merger with Valera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and cost savings from integrating Valera’s business with our business. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the successful integration of the operations of Valera. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among other factors: • coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities, including complexities associated with managing the combined businesses at two separate locations; 38 Table of Contents • combining the sales force territories and competencies associated with the sale of products presently sold by Indevus or Valera; • integrating personnel from different companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high-quality products and customer service; • unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the merger; and • performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention to the merger. If we are unable to successfully combine the businesses of Indevus and Valera in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the merger, such anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, inconsistencies between each company’s standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. We may undertake strategic acquisitions in the future and any difficulties from integrating such acquisitions could adversely affect our stock price, operating results and results of operations. We may acquire companies, businesses and products that complement or augment our existing business. We may not be able to integrate any acquired business or product successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. Integrating any newly acquired business or product could be expensive and time-consuming. Integration efforts often take a significant amount of time, place a significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources and could prove to be more difficult or expensive than we predict. The diversion of our management’s attention and any delay or difficulties encountered in connection with any future acquisitions we may consummate could result in the disruption of our on-going business or inconsistencies in standards and controls that could negatively affect our ability to maintain third-party relationships. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, or issue additional shares, to acquire any businesses or products, which may result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness. As part of our efforts to acquire companies, business or product candidates or to enter into other significant transactions, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions we may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks and other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we acquire product candidates, we will also need to make certain assumptions about, among other things, development costs, the likelihood of receiving regulatory approval, the costs of manufacturing, and the market for such product candidates. Our assumptions may prove to be incorrect, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. In addition, we will likely experience significant charges to earnings in connection with our efforts, if any, to consummate acquisitions. For transactions that are ultimately not consummated, these charges may include fees and expenses for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and other advisors in connection with our efforts. Even if our efforts are successful, we may incur, as part of a transaction, substantial charges for closure costs associated with elimination of duplicate operations and facilities and acquired in-process research and development charges. In either case, the incurrence of these charges could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. 39 Table of Contents We depend upon key personnel and consultants. We have a small number of employees and are dependent on certain executive officers and scientific personnel, including Glenn L. Cooper, our Chief Executive Officer, Thomas F. Farb, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Noah D. Beerman, our Chief Business Officer, Mark S. Butler, our Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel, Michael W. Rogers, our Chief Financial Officer, and Bobby W. Sandage, Jr., our Chief Scientific Officer. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of any of these individuals. In addition, we rely on the assistance of independent consultants to design and supervise clinical trials and prepare FDA submissions. Competition for qualified employees, including sales people, among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies is intense. If key employees terminate their employment, or insufficient numbers of employees are retained to maintain effective operations, our sales, marketing or development activities and prospects might be adversely affected. In addition, we might not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees that leave Indevus or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and Other Securities We may issue preferred stock with rights that could affect your rights and prevent a takeover of the business. Our board of directors has the authority, without further approval of our stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, 244,425 of which were issued and outstanding. As of September 30, 2007. In addition, vesting of shares of our common stock subject to awards under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan accelerates, and outstanding options under our stock option plans become immediately exercisable, upon certain changes in control of Indevus, except under certain conditions. In addition, Delaware corporate law imposes limitations on certain business combinations. These provisions could, under certain circumstances, delay or prevent a change in control of Indevus and, accordingly, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have never paid any dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since inception and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. Any dividends on our common stock will be subject to the preferential cumulative annual dividend of $0.1253 per share and $1.00 per share payable on our outstanding Series B preferred stock and Series C preferred stock, respectively, held by Wyeth and dividends payable on any other preferred stock we may issue. If we pay cash dividends on our common stock, certain holders of our securities may be deemed to have received a taxable dividend without the receipt of any cash. If we pay a cash dividend on our common stock which results in an adjustment to the conversion price of our outstanding convertible notes, holders of such notes may be deemed to have received a taxable dividend subject to U.S. federal income tax without the receipt of any cash. The price for our securities is volatile. The market prices for our securities and for securities of emerging growth companies have historically been highly volatile. Future announcements concerning us or our competitors may have a significant impact on the market price of our securities. Factors which may affect the market price for our securities, among others, include: • market success of SANCTURA and VANTAS; • successful launch and commercialization of SANCTURA XR; 40 Table of Contents • successful commercialization of SUPPRELIN LA; • results of clinical studies and regulatory reviews; • marketing approval of NEBIDO; • sales by Valera’s former stockholders of significant amounts of Indevus common stock they received in the merger or upon conversion of any contingent stock rights; • partnerships, corporate collaborations and company acquisitions; • announcements by our corporate collaboration partners concerning our products, about which we generally have very limited control, if any, over the timing or content; • changes in the levels we spend to develop, acquire or license new compounds; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; • competitive products; • sales, the possibility of sales, or buybacks of Indevus’ common stock or other financings, including resales of stock, stock issued upon conversion of the contingent stock rights issued in connection with the merger, issuance of additional debt and entering into credit facilities; • our results of operations and financial condition including variability in quarterly operating results due to timing and recognition of revenue, receipt of licensing, milestone and royalty payments, regulatory progress and delays and timing and recognition of certain expenses; • fluctuations in results of operations of the combined company of Indevus and Valera due to factors that affect the combined company that are different from those that affected the independent results of operations of each of Indevus or Valera prior to the merger; • changes in proprietary rights of our, or our competitor’s, products; • Redux-related litigation developments; • public concern as to the safety or commercial value of our products; and • general economic conditions. The high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Market were: $12.83 and $0.85 for fiscal 2002, $6.90 and $1.32 for fiscal 2003, $10.25 and $4.86 for fiscal 2004, $7.45 and $2.41 for fiscal 2005, $6.75 and $2.50 for fiscal 2006 and $8.06 and $5.58 for fiscal 2007. Our common stock is subject to delisting if our stock price drops below the bid price of $1.00 per share. If we fail to meet any of the continued listing requirements for the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, the effects of which could include limited release of a market price of our common stock, limited liquidity for stockholders and limited news coverage and could result in an adverse effect on the market for our common stock. The stock markets also experience significant price and volume fluctuation unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, in connection with the merger we agreed under certain circumstances to register up to approximately 6,200,000 shares (less any shares sold prior to the time of registration) of our common stock acquired by SMH Capital Inc. (and affiliated entities), or SMH, in connection with the merger for resale under the Securities Act on a Registration Statement on Form S-3. When sales of Indevus common stock by SMH or any other former Valera stockholder occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. 41 Table of Contents Impairment charges pertaining to goodwill, identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets from our merger with Valera could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and the market value of our common stock. The total estimated purchase price pertaining to our merger with Valera has been allocated to Valera’s net tangible assets, identifiable intangible assets, in process research and development and goodwill. To the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets become impaired, we will be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment. Any impairment charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and the market value of our common stock. The price for our common stock could be negatively affected if we issue additional shares or if third parties exercise registration rights. Wyeth has the right, under certain circumstances, to require us to register for public sale 622,222 shares of our common stock issuable to it upon conversion of the Indevus Series B and Series C preferred stock it owns. We have outstanding registration statements on Form S-3 relating to the resale of our shares of common stock and on Form S-8 relating to shares issuable under our 1989 Stock Option Plan, 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 1997 Equity Incentive Plan, 1998 Employee Stock Option Plan, 2000 Stock Option Plan, and 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, shares of our common stock may be issued upon conversion of the contingent stock rights issued in connection with the merger with Valera. The possibility of sales of such shares, private sales of securities or the possibility of resale of such shares in the public market may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stockholders could be diluted if we issue our shares subject to options, warrants, convertible notes, stock awards or other arrangements. As of September 30, 2007, we had reserved the following shares of our common stock for issuance: • 10,817,308 shares issuable in the aggregate upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes issued in July 2003, which are due in July 2008, referred to herein as the Old Notes (of which $75,000 remain outstanding) and the Convertible Senior Notes issued in August 2007, which are due in July 2009, referred to herein as the New Notes (of which $71,925,000 remain outstanding); • 13,731,000 shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, Performance Stock Awards and deferred stock units, certain of which may be subject to anti-dilution provisions which provide for the adjustment to the conversion price and number of shares for option holders if Indevus issues additional securities below certain prices; • 622,222 shares upon conversion of preferred stock owned by Wyeth, subject to anti-dilution provisions; and • 3,105,000 shares reserved for grant and issuance under our stock option, stock purchase and equity incentive plans. We may grant additional options, warrants or stock awards. To the extent such shares are issued, the interest of holders of our common stock will be diluted. In addition, we are obliged to issue shares of common stock upon achievement of development milestones related to contingent stock rights, or CSRs, issued in connection with the merger with Valera. As a result of the May 3, 2007 FDA approval of SUPPRELIN LA and our possession of a specified amount of inventory of commercially sellable units, approximately 2,300,000 shares were issued. The achievement of future milestones related to two other outstanding CSRs could result in the issuance of shares totaling approximately $40,600,000. 42 Table of Contents Leverage as a result of our outstanding convertible notes may harm our financial condition and results of operations. At September 30, 2007, we had $72,000,000 of outstanding debt reflected on our balance sheet relating to the Old Notes and New Notes. There currently is $75,000 of Old Notes outstanding with a maturity date of July 15, 2008. There currently is $71,925,000 of New Notes outstanding with a maturity date of July 15, 2009. The noteholders may decide not to convert the New Notes. If the price of our common stock at the time the New Notes become due does not exceed $8.50 for a specified period, then we may not be able to redeem the New Notes to cause a conversion, and then we may be obligated to repay the holders of the New Notes in cash on the July 2009 due date. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future and the Old Notes and New Notes do not restrict our future issuance of indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: • a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; • increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and • depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to the success of our development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical products, general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or other sources in the future to service our debt, we may be required, among other things: • to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the old notes or any new notes that may be issued; • to sell selected assets; or • to reduce or delay planned expenditures on clinical trials, and development and commercialization activities. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. Our convertible senior notes may not be rated or may receive a lower rating than anticipated. If one or more rating agencies rates our outstanding convertible senior notes, collectively referred to herein as the Notes, assigns the Notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces its rating in the future, the market price of the Notes would be harmed. The price of the Notes may fluctuate significantly as a result of the volatility of the price for our common stock. Because the Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices for our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of the Notes. 43 Table of Contents If we are unable to pay all of our debts, the noteholders will receive payment on the Notes only if we have funds remaining after we have paid any future secured indebtedness. The Notes are unsecured and are effectively subordinated in right of payment to any future secured indebtedness that we may incur to the extent of the value of the pledged assets. If some or all of our assets are pledged to secure other obligations, there may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the outstanding Notes. In addition, we may be unable to fulfill our obligations to offer to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control. The Notes will effectively be subordinated to the debt of our subsidiaries. Our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization, and therefore the right of the holders of the Notes to participate in those assets, will be effectively subordinated to the claim of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. Our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on the Notes or to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. Furthermore, we are not limited in or prohibited from transferring cash or other assets to our subsidiaries from time to time. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 