ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks identified below, as well as in the other cautionary statements made throughout this report, identify factors that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. We are subject to a consent order with the FDIC and KDFI and a formal agreement with the Federal Reserve that restrict the conduct of our operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our good standing with bank regulatory agencies is of fundamental importance to our business. The Bank has operated under the terms of a Consent Order imposed by the FDIC and KDFI since January 2011, which required the Bank to achieve a total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 12.00% and a Tier 1 capital to average total assets ratio of 9.00% initially by June 30, 2011, and to develop and implement actions to reduce the amount of classified assets and improve earnings. The Bank’s total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio exceeded 12.00% at December 31, 2013, and its Tier 1 capital to average total assets ratio at that date was 7.96%. 15 In April 2011, the Corporation entered into a formal agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, which requires the Corporation to obtain regulatory approval before declaring any dividends and to take steps to ensure the Bank complies with the Consent Order. We also may not redeem shares or obtain additional borrowings without prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Bank regulatory agencies can exercise discretion when an institution does not meet the terms of a regulatory order. The agencies may initiate changes in management, issue mandatory directives, impose monetary penalties or refrain from formal sanctions, depending on individual circumstances. Any material failures to comply with our regulatory orders would likely result in more stringent enforcement actions by the bank regulatory agencies, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. Compliance with these bank regulatory orders will also increase our operating expense, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Regulatory restrictions have prevented us from paying interest on the junior subordinated debentures that relate to our trust preferred securities since the fourth quarter of 2010. If we cannot pay accrued and unpaid interest on these securities for more than twenty consecutive quarters, we will be in default. Our two wholly owned trust subsidiaries have together issued a total of $18 million of trust preferred securities. The subsidiaries loaned the sales proceeds from these issuances to us in exchange for junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we began deferring interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures relating to our trust preferred securities. Deferring these interest payments resulted in the deferral of distributions on our trust preferred securities. Deferred distributions on our trust preferred securities, which totaled $4.4 million as of December 31, 2013, accrue and compound on each subsequent payment date. If we cannot pay all unpaid deferred distributions on our trust preferred securities for more than twenty consecutive quarters, we will be in default, and the holders of our trust preferred securities would become entitled to payment of the full amount of outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest. If as a result of a default we become subject to any liquidation, dissolution or winding up, holders of the trust preferred securities and holders of our senior preferred stock will be entitled to receive the liquidation amounts to which they are entitled, plus all accrued and unpaid distributions and dividends, before any distribution can be made to the holders of common stock. We may not be able to sell stock to raise additional capital to meet the requirements of our consent order. The Bank has agreed with the FDIC and the KDFI to develop a plan to increase its Tier 1 capital to average total assets to 9.00% and its total capital to risk-weighted asset ratio to 12.00%. We continue to evaluate several specific initiatives to increase our regulatory capital and to reduce our total assets, such as selling loans and raising capital by selling stock. Our ability to raise additional capital by selling stock will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. We may not have access to capital on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise capital through the sale of stock, we may not have the capital and financial resources needed to operate our business or to meet regulatory requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future sales of our common stock or other securities will dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. We are currently evaluating strategies to meet our capital needs and regulatory requirements including the issuance of additional common shares. We can issue common shares without shareholder approval, up to the number of authorized shares set forth in our articles of incorporation. Our Board of Directors may determine to seek additional capital through the issuance and sale of common shares, preferred shares or other securities convertible into or exercisable for our common shares, subject to limitations imposed by the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Federal Reserve. We may not be able to issue common shares at prices or on terms better than or equal to the prices and terms on which our current shareholders acquired their shares. Our future issuance of any additional common shares or other securities may have the effect of reducing the book value or market price of then-outstanding common shares. Our issuance of additional common or securities convertible into or exercisable for common shares will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our existing shareholders. In addition, if our shareholders sell a substantial number of our common shares or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common shares in the public market, or if there is a perception that such sales are likely to occur, it could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that either future sales of a substantial volume of our common shares in the market, or the potential for large volumes of sales in the market, would have on the market price of our common shares. However, if the market price of our common shares declines, it could impair our ability to raise capital through sales of stock. 16 We may not be able to realize the value of our tax losses and deductions. Due to our losses, we have a net operating loss carry-forward of $13.6 million, an AMT credit carry-forward of $196,000, and other net deferred tax assets of $8.8 million. In order to realize the benefit of these tax losses, credits and deductions, we will need to generate substantial taxable income in future periods. We established a 100% valuation allowance for all deferred tax assets in 2010. Our issuance of new shares to raise additional capital could trigger a change in control, as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which could limit our ability to fully utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards, credit loss carry-forwards, and other net deferred tax assets. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by adverse business and economic conditions both in our markets and in general. Ongoing weakness in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in our markets has had, and could continue to have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: ·A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; ·A decrease in the value of collateral securing our loans; ·An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as core deposit intangibles; and ·An increase in the number of customers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans. The general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business during the past five years. Although conditions have improved, there can be no assurance that such improvement can be sustained. In addition, the improvement of certain economic indicators, such as real estate asset values and rents and unemployment, may vary between geographic markets and may continue to lag behind improvement in the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect the real estate and financial services industries, in which we have a significant number of customers, more significantly than other economic sectors. Furthermore, we have a substantial lending business that depends upon the ability of borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, or if economic conditions worsen or remain volatile, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our designation as a “troubled institution” limits our sources of funding. If we cannot borrow funds through access to the capital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. If our liquidity policies and strategies don’t work as well as intended, then we may be unable to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Our Asset Liability Committee follows established board-approved policies and monitors guidelines to diversify our wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one-market source. Wholesale funding sources include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core brokered deposits, and medium and long-term debt, which includes Federal Home Loan Bank advances that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. As long as the Consent Order remains in effect, the Bank will not be able to rely on brokered deposits (including deposits through the CDARs program) for its liquidity needs. The designation of the Bank as a "troubled institution" in connection with the issuance of the Consent Order prohibits the Bank from accepting new brokered deposits or renewing or rolling over any existing brokered deposits at the Bank. The Bank is also restricted in the amount of interest it may pay on core deposits. See Part I, Item I –Business – Regulation – Regulatory Capital Requirements for a description of the Bank's interest rate restrictions. The Bank's designation as a "troubled institution" may also limit the amount of additional advances available from the FHLB. The Bank currently has sufficient collateral to borrow, approximately, an additional $20.2 million in advances from the FHLB. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other available sources of liquidity, including the sale or securitization of loans, the ability to acquire additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances, the issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might not be able to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely impact our financial condition, our results of operations, cash flows, and our level of regulatory-qualifying capital. For further discussion, see the “Liquidity” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements and operating cash needs of the Corporation due to restrictions on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends. The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. Historically, the Corporation has received substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from the Bank. Due to the losses we have incurred in recent years, the Bank is not allowed to pay any dividends to the Corporation without prior regulatory approval. At December 31, 2013, the Corporation’s liquid assets consisted of $147,000 in cash. With no sources of revenue other than dividends paid by the Bank, the Corporation will be constrained to meet to meet its cash flow requirements and operating cash needs. 17 Regulatory and contractual restrictions currently prevent us from paying cash dividends on our common stock. We historically paid quarterly cash dividends on our common stock until we suspended dividend payments in December 2009. We will not be able to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future until we first pay all unpaid dividends on the senior preferred stock and all deferred distributions on our trust preferred securities. The dividend payable on our outstanding senior preferred stock increased in January 2014. We currently have issued and outstanding $20 million of cumulative perpetual preferred shares, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (“senior preferred stock”). On January 9, 2014, the dividends accruing on the senior preferred stock increased from 5% (approximately $1 million annually) to 9% (approximately $1.8 million annually). Depending on market conditions and our financial performance, this increase in dividends could adversely impact our capital, liquidity and earnings available to common shareholders. Our decisions regarding credit risk may not be accurate, and our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level we believe is adequate to absorb any probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio based on historical loan loss experience, specific problem loans, value of underlying collateral and other relevant factors. If our assessment of these factors is ultimately inaccurate, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which would require us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results. Our estimates are subjective and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. Changes in economic, operating and other conditions that are generally beyond our control could cause the financial condition of our borrowers to deteriorate and our actual loan losses to increase significantly. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Regulatory agencies have from time to time required us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs when their judgment has differed from ours, and they may do so in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our operating results. Our relatively high concentration of loans collateralized by real estate increases our risk if real estate values decline. Approximately 90% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. An adverse change in the economy such as we have recently experienced which depresses values of real estate in our primary markets could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. When real estate values decline, it becomes more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses as we did in 2011 and 2010. If during a period of depressed real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. The Volcker Rule collateralized loan obligation provisions could result in adverse consequences for us, including lower earnings, lower tangible capital and/or lower regulatory capital. The so-called “Volcker Rule” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act restrict the ability of affiliates of insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, to sponsor or invest in private funds or to engage in certain types of proprietary trading. The Federal Reserve adopted final rules implementing the Volcker Rule in December 2013. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the Volcker Rule and the final rules adopted thereunder. While there may be additional regulatory guidance, similar to the interim final rule issued on January 14, 2014, that provided relief to banks that hold certain Trust Preferred Collateralized Debt Obligations, or a legislative ruling that, if they occur, would eliminate the requirement that we dispose of these securities prior to July 2015, we may be able to develop structural solutions that can be applied to our collateralized loan obligation (‘CLO”) securities to bring them into compliance with the final Volcker Rule. At December 31, 2013, we own $34.5 million of CLO securities with a weighted average yield of 2.3% that are subject to the Volcker Rule. If we decide to sell or are required to sell these securities, our future net interest income and regulatory capital ratios could be adversely impacted. Our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. Because most of our business activities are conducted in central Kentucky, and most of our credit exposure is in that region, we are at risk from adverse economic or business developments affecting this area, including declining regional and local business activity, a downturn in real estate values and agricultural activities and natural disasters. To the extent the central Kentucky economy remains weak, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in our loan portfolio will likely increase. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans could be adversely affected by economic conditions or a localized natural disaster. The economic downturn has had a negative impact on our financial results and may continue to have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 18 Our target market is small to medium-sized businesses, who may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy. Our strategy includes lending to small and medium-sized businesses and other commercial enterprises. Small and medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competitors, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial variations in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small or medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one person or a small group, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more key individuals could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay our loan. A continued economic downturn could have a more pronounced negative impact on our target market, which could cause us to incur substantial credit losses that could materially harm our operating results. Our profitability is vulnerable to fluctuations in interest rates. Changes in interest rates could harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as investments and loans) and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, unemployment, and money supply may also affect interest rates. If as a result of decreasing interest rates, our interest-earning assets mature or re-price more quickly than our interest-bearing liabilities in a given period, then our net interest income may decrease. Likewise, our net interest income may decrease if interest-bearing liabilities mature or re-price more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period as a result of increasing interest rates. Fixed-rate loans increase our exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to re-pricing before assets become subject to re-pricing. Adjustable-rate loans decrease the risk associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks, such as the inability of borrowers to make higher payments in an increasing interest rate environment. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. The economic downturn that began in 2008 triggered a series of cuts in interest rates. Since fiscal 2010, the Federal Open Market Committee has kept the target federal funds rate between 0% and 0.25%. The current low interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues. In addition, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans, particularly if the borrowers refinance their adjustable-rate loans to lower fixed rate loans, which could reduce net interest income and adversely affect our financial results. We face strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service companies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We compete with other financial institutions in attracting deposits and making loans. Our competition in attracting deposits comes principally from commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds. Our competition in making loans comes principally from other commercial banks, credit unions, mortgage banking firms and consumer finance companies. Competition is increasing in our markets, which may adversely affect our ability to maintain our market share. Competition in the banking industry may also limit our ability to attract and retain banking customers. We maintain smaller staffs of associates and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete. Financial institutions that have far greater resources and greater efficiencies than we do may have several marketplace advantages resulting from their ability to: ·offer higher interest rates on deposits and lower interest rates on loans than we can; ·offer a broader range of services than we do; ·maintain more branch locations than we do; and ·mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. In addition, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and other financial intermediaries may not be subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are and may have larger lending limits than we do. Some of our current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than we can accommodate. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may not be able to maintain growth and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. 19 We operate in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to implement our growth and operating strategies. We are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies, which is described under “Item 1 Business – Regulation.” Regulatory oversight of banks is primarily intended to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole, not our shareholders. Compliance with these regulations is costly and may make it more difficult to operate profitably. Federal and state banking laws and regulations govern numerous matters including the payment of dividends, the acquisition of other banks and the establishment of new banking offices. We must also meet specific regulatory capital requirements. Our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and policies or to maintain our capital requirements affects our ability to pay dividends on common stock, our ability to grow through the development of new offices and our ability to make acquisitions. We currently may not pay a dividend from the Bank to the Corporation without the prior written consent of our primary banking regulators, which limits our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. These limitations may also prevent us from successfully implementing our growth and operating strategies. In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to banks could change at any time, which could significantly impact our business and profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to attract deposits and make loans. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy or insolvency of a prominent U.S. corporation, can cause legislators and banking regulators and other agencies such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and various taxing authorities to respond by adopting and or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws and regulations, or changes in or repeal of existing laws and regulations may have a material impact on our business and results of operations. Changes in regulation may cause us to devote substantial additional financial resources and management time to compliance, which may negatively affect our operating results. Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry will increase our cost of regulatory compliance and have a significant adverse effect on our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act implemented significant changes to the U.S. financial system, including among other things: ·new requirements on banking, derivative and investment activities, including the repeal of the prohibition on the payment of interest on business demand accounts and debit card interchange fee requirements; ·the creation of a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with supervisory authority; ·the creation of a Financial Stability Oversight Council with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk; ·provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and ·a provision that would broaden the base for FDIC insurance assessments. It is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because many implementing regulations have only recently taken effect, and other regulations have yet to be adopted. For example, the CFPB is given the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers and is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. The effect on our Bank of new regulations and the enforcement of existing regulations by a new agency is not yet known. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, including additional Tier 1 capital, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition. 20 Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. Failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a large financial institution, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers. Information security risks for financial institutions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, the proliferation of identity theft, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smart phones, tablet PC’s, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers’ devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information or that of our customers, or otherwise disrupt the business operations of ourselves, our customers or other third parties. Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and the prevalence of Internet and mobile banking. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. While management continually monitors and improves our system of internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate wide processes and procedures, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses from operational risk in the future. Management maintains internal operational controls and we have invested in technology to help us process large volumes of transactions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue processing at the same or higher levels of transactions. If our systems of internal controls should fail to work as expected, if our systems were to be used in an unauthorized manner, or if employees were to subvert the system of internal controls, significant losses could occur. We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operation risk, which could cause us to incur substantial losses. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide management with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost effective levels. We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. Nevertheless, we experience loss from operational risk from time to time, including the effects of operational errors, and these losses may be substantial. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved SEC staff comments. 21 