Item 1A. Risk Factors We do not have a long or stable history of profitable operations. The Company’s net losses to common shareholders for the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $7.8 million, $2.1 million and $6.7 million, respectively. The respective periods’ net losses were $6.8 million, $1.8 million and $6.0 million. Additional amounts of $1.0 million, $0.3 million and $0.7 million, resulting from beneficial conversion charges and preferred stock dividends increased such respective period losses to the aforementioned levels of net losses to common shareholders. We are dependent on key customers. We sell large orders to individual fleets and may be dependent upon a few major customers each year whose volume of purchases is significantly greater than that of other customers. As we continue to grow our existing customer base this risk will lessen, but until such time we are still dependent on continued purchases by present customers who continue to equip and upgrade their fleets. Loss of any significant current customers or an inability to further expand our customer base would adversely affect us. Our sales cycle is long. The period required to complete a sale of our systems has historically been up to a year or longer. The length of the sales cycle may result in quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue. Our systems are technically complex, which means the customer has to make an advance budget decision. The availability of new and other technologies also complicates and delays buying decisions. We have competitors who are larger than we are. Many of the companies who offer competitive products have greater financial and other resources than our company. These competitors offer products ranging in sophistication and cost from basic onboard recorders to advanced mobile satellite communication and information systems. Their products may offer better or more functions than ours or may be more effectively marketed. In addition, the nature and sources of competition in our industry are rapidly evolving and increasingly depend on the ability to deliver integration of multiple information systems. These systems must link trucking operations with other facets of the supply chain through a variety of sophisticated software and communications technologies. These changes reflect a trend toward integration of intra-company data with the larger external supply chain involving the flow of goods to markets. We must continue to adapt our existing products and develop new products that facilitate the collection, integration, communication and utilization of information throughout the entire supply chain. This may entail the development of new technologies and the adaptation of new and existing products to be compatible with products and services provided by others in the industry. These trends may require us to establish strategic alliances with other companies who may be competitors. We have a limited number of products and those products are concentrated in one industry. Although our systems have potential applications in a number of industries, to date we have targeted only the private fleet trucking segment of the transportation industry. If this market segment experiences a downturn that decreases our sales, the development of new applications and markets could take several months or longer, and could require substantial funding. In addition, our future success is dependent in part on developing and marketing new software applications. We cannot assure that new applications can be successfully developed or marketed in a timely manner. Our target market is highly cyclical. The fleet trucking segment of the transportation industry is subject to fluctuations and business cycles. We cannot predict to what extent these business cycles may result in increases or decreases in capital purchases by fleet managers. A significant downturn in the prospects of the fleet trucking segment of the transportation industry could have a material, adverse affect on us. 9 Table of Contents The effectiveness of our selling efforts depends on knowledgeable staff and effective marketing alliances. Direct sales of our products are dependent in part upon the salesperson’s in-depth knowledge and understanding of our systems. This knowledge is attained through experience and training over a period of several months or longer. We must attract, train, and retain qualified personnel on a continuing basis. We may not be able to sustain or augment our sales and marketing efforts by retaining or adding personnel, and it is possible that increased sales and marketing efforts will not result in increased sales or profitability. We believe that marketing alliances with truck leasing companies, truck manufacturers and others in the truck supply chain will become increasingly important distribution channels for our products. We may not be able to establish or sustain effective alliances. Moreover, we may have limited control over the selling efforts of our alliance partners. We are dependent on proprietary technology. Our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technology. We have been issued a design patent by the United States Patent and Trademark Office that covers our Driver Computer and have recently applied for several software-related patents, but we have not yet been awarded patents on any of our software programs. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These measures afford only limited protection. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may prove inadequate, or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, either of which could adversely affect us. In addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our systems or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We depend on wireless communication networks owned and controlled by others. If we are unable to deliver continued access to communication services with sufficient capacity, our revenues could decrease. Our ability to grow and achieve profitability depends on the ability of satellite and digital cellular wireless carriers to provide sufficient network capacity, reliability and security to our customers. Even where wireless carriers provide coverage to entire regions, there are occasional lapses in coverage, for example due to man-made or natural obstructions blocking the transmission of data. These effects could make our services less reliable and less useful, and customer satisfaction could suffer. Our financial condition could be seriously harmed if our wireless carriers were to increase the prices of their services, or to suffer operational or technical failures. Our products may quickly become obsolete. Our systems utilize proprietary software and onboard touch-screen computers. Although we believe our proprietary software is more important in the capture and communication of operating data than the hardware on which the software operates, continued improvements in hardware may render our technology, including its software, obsolete. The field of software and hardware is constantly undergoing rapid technological change and we may not be able to react and adapt to changes in this field. Moreover, development by our competitors could make our systems and services less competitive or obsolete. We believe that advancements in hardware and communications technology provide opportunities for us to form alliances with companies offering products complementary to our systems and services, but we cannot assure that we can form alliances with such companies or that any such alliance will be successful. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards, and develop and introduce new features and enhancements to our system on a timely basis. If we are unable to do so for technological or other reasons or if new features or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may encounter technical or other difficulties that could in the future delay the introduction of new systems or system features or enhancements. JDSTG and Trident Capital, who are represented on our Board of Directors, individually and together own enough stock to exert significant influence over XATA. As of November 30, 2007, JDSTG owned approximately 13.4 percent and Trident Capital owned approximately 37.7 percent of our common stock on an as-converted basis, and Trident has the ability to increase its ownership significantly through exercising warrants. In addition, JDSTG is entitled to name up to three representatives to our Board of Directors and Trident is entitled to name up to two representatives. Trident is entitled to vote its Preferred Stock as if converted to common stock and to vote as a separate class (to the exclusion of the holders of common stock) on the election of its two director nominees. Both JDSTG and Trident benefit from 10 Table of Contents certain restrictive covenants of XATA in connection with their equity investments in the Company. The combination of stock ownership and Board of Director representation enables these shareholders, individually and together, to a greater degree, to exercise significant influence over the Company. We are dependent on key personnel. Our staff is small and our future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of key management, technical and sales personnel. The loss of one of our key employees could adversely affect our ability to provide leading edge technology to the transportation industry. We may need additional capital. Although we believe cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet capital requirements for the foreseeable future, our cash needs may vary significantly from predictions. For example, if we do not generate anticipated cash flow, or if we grow at a rate faster than we anticipate, our predictions regarding cash needs may prove inaccurate and we may require additional financing. Our inability to obtain needed financing could have a material adverse effect on operating results. We cannot assure that we will be able to secure additional financing when needed or that financing, if obtained, will be on terms favorable or acceptable to us. Moreover, future financing may result in dilution to holders of our common stock. We may issue additional stock without shareholder consent. We have authorized 25,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 8,516,000 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 7, 2007. The Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares. Additional shares may be issued in connection with future financing, acquisitions, employee stock plans, or otherwise. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. We are also currently authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 7, 2007, 1,888,000 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, 1,269,000 Series C Convertible Preferred Stock and 1,567,000 shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding. The Board of Directors can issue additional preferred stock in one or more series and fix the terms of such stock without shareholder approval. Preferred stock may include the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock and reduce the value of the common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. Our common stock could be delisted due to failure to satisfy a continued listing rule or standard. On August 26, 2005, the Company received a letter from The Nasdaq Listing Qualification Staff (“Nasdaq”), notifying the Company that it was not in compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(2)(B) (the “Rule”). This Rule requires the Company to have a minimum $35 million in market value of listed securities, $2.5 million in shareholders’ equity, or $500,000 in net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. Nasdaq informed the Company that it had 30 calendar days, or until September 26, 2005, to regain compliance with the Rule. By virtue of the Trident Capital investment in September 2005, we regained compliance with the Nasdaq Marketplace listing requirements. However, Nasdaq has advised us that it will continue to monitor our compliance with the listing standards. If we fail to show compliance, we may be subject to delisting. We may be unable to manage rapid growth. The Company’s continued growth will place an increasing strain on our resources, and we could experience difficulties relating to a variety of operational matters, including hiring, training and managing an increasing number of employees, obtaining sufficient quantities of product from vendors, obtaining sufficient materials and contract manufacturers to produce our products, expanding our distribution capabilities and enhancing our customer service, financial, and operating systems. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage growth effectively. Any failure to manage growth could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our directors’ liability is limited under Minnesota law and under certain agreements. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended and restated, state that our directors are not liable for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for a breach of the duty of loyalty, for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, for dividend payments or stock repurchases illegal under Minnesota law or for any transaction in which the director derived an improper personal benefit. In addition, our bylaws provide that we shall indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law for all expenses incurred in the settlement of any actions against them in connection with their service as officers or directors of the Company. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with the Trident investors, and its representatives who serve as directors on our Board, which may supplement the indemnification provisions available to them under Minnesota law. Anti-takeover provisions. Minnesota law provides Minnesota corporations with anti-takeover protections. These protective provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of our company by requiring shareholder approval of significant acquisitions of our voting stock. These provisions operate even when many shareholders may think a takeover would be in their best interests. We face burdens relating to the recent trend toward stricter corporate governance and financial reporting standards. New legislation or regulations that follow the trend of imposing stricter corporate governance and financial reporting standards, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, continues to increase our costs of compliance. A failure to comply with these new laws and regulations may impact market perception of our financial condition and could materially harm our business. Additionally, it is unclear what additional laws or regulations may develop, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any future changes. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which will become effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2008, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our Independent Auditors in fiscal 2009 addressing the same. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 