ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The risks identified below, as well as in the other cautionary statements made throughout this report, identify factors that could materially and adversely affect our business, future results of operations, and future cash flows. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and by economic conditions generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing severe recessionary conditions for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Reduced consumer spending and the absence of liquidity in the global credit markets during the current recession have depressed business activity across a wide range of industries. Unemployment has also increased significantly. Sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in our markets has had and could continue to have the following adverse effects on our business: · A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services that we offer; · A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; · An impairment of certain intangible assets; · An increase in the number of clients who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults has resulted in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, and provision for loan losses. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Ongoing market developments may continue to adversely affect our industry, businesses and results of operations. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a very serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Concerns about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties have caused many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions. The lack of available credit, loss of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity have materially and adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. 13 Our decisions regarding credit risk may not be accurate, and our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level we believe is adequate to absorb any probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio based on historical loan loss experience, specific problem loans, value of underlying collateral and other relevant factors. If our assessment of these factors is ultimately inaccurate, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our estimates are subjective and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. Changes in economic, operating and other conditions that are generally beyond our control, including changes in interest rates, could cause actual loan losses to increase significantly. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Regulatory agencies have from time to time required us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs when their judgment has differed from ours, and may do so in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our operating results. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our relatively high concentration of loans collateralized by real estate. Approximately 87.0% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary markets such as we have recently experienced could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. When real estate values decline, it becomes more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses as we did in 2009. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely affect the value of our investments, financial performance and capital. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of our securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of change in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, our ability and intent to hold investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require us to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the reduction in the value recognized as a charge to earnings. Recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to recognize further impairments in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. Our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. Because most of our business activities are conducted in central Kentucky and adjacent counties of Indiana, and most of our credit exposure is in that region, we are at risk from adverse economic or business developments affecting this area, including declining regional and local business activity, a downturn in real estate values and agricultural activities and natural disasters. To date, the declines in real estate values in our markets have been moderate compared to the severe declines experienced in other regions. To the extent the central Kentucky economy further declines, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in our loan portfolio would likely increase. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans could be adversely affected by economic downturn or a localized natural disaster. An economic downturn or other events that affect our markets could, therefore, result in losses that may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer resources to weather the downturn in the economy. Our strategy includes lending to small and medium-sized businesses and other commercial enterprises. Small and medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competitors, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial variations in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small and medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay our loan. Economic downturns and other events could have a more pronounced negative impact on our target market, which could cause us to incur substantial credit losses that could materially harm our operating results. 14 Our profitability is vulnerable to fluctuations in interest rates. Changes in interest rates could harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as investments and loans) and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, unemployment, and money supply may also affect interest rates. If our interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than our interest-bearing liabilities in a given period, as a result of decreasing interest rates, our net interest income may decrease. Likewise, our net interest income may decrease if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period as a result of increasing interest rates. Fixed-rate loans increase our exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to repricing before assets become subject to repricing. Adjustable-rate loans decrease the risk associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks, such as the inability of borrowers to make higher payments in an increasing interest rate environment. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. In the current low interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as the borrowers refinance their loans at lower interest rates, which could reduce net interest income and harm our results of operations. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot borrow funds through access to the capital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers, or meet the operating cash needs of the Corporation to fund corporate expansion or other activities. Our liquidity policies and limits are established by the Board of Directors, with operating limits set by the Asset Liability Committee (“ALCO”), based upon analyses of the ratio of loans to deposits, the percentage of assets funded with non-core or wholesale funding. The ALCO regularly monitors the overall liquidity position of the Bank and the Corporation to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. If our liquidity policies and strategies don’t work as well as intended, then we may be unable to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. The ALCO follows established board-approved policies and monitors guidelines to diversify our wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one-market source. Wholesale funding sources include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core brokered deposits, and medium and long-term debt, which includes Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other available sources of liquidity, including the sale or securitization of loans, the ability to acquire additional non-core brokered deposits, additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances, the issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might not be able to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely impact our financial condition, our results of operations, cash flows, and our level of regulatory-qualifying capital. For further discussion, see the “Liquidity” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We face strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service companies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We compete with other financial institutions in attracting deposits and making loans. Our competition in attracting deposits comes principally from commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds. Competition in making loans in the Louisville metropolitan area has increased in recent years after changes in banking law allowed several banks to enter the market by establishing new branches. Likewise, competition is increasing in our other markets, which may adversely affect our ability to maintain our market share. Competition in the banking industry may also limit our ability to attract and retain banking clients. We maintain smaller staffs of associates and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete. Financial institutions that have far greater resources and greater efficiencies than we do may have several marketplace advantages resulting from their ability to: 15 · offer higher interest rates on deposits and lower interest rates on loans than we can; · offer a broader range of services than we do; · maintain numerous branch locations; and · mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. In addition, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and other financial intermediaries may not be subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are and may have larger lending limits than we do. Some of our current commercial banking clients may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than we can accommodate. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may not be able to maintain growth and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. While management continually monitors and improves our system of internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate wide processes and procedures, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses from operational risk in the future. Management maintains internal operational controls and we have invested in technology to help us process large volumes of transactions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue processing at the same or higher levels of transactions. If our systems of internal controls should fail to work as expected, if our systems were to be used in an unauthorized manner, or if employees were to subvert the system of internal controls, significant losses could occur. We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operation risk, which could cause us to incur substantial losses. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide management with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost effective levels. We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. Nevertheless, we experience loss from operational risk from time to time, including the effects of operational errors, and these losses may be substantial. We operate in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to implement our growth and operating strategies. We are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies, which is described under “Item 1 Business – Regulation.” Regulatory oversight of banks is primarily intended to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not our shareholders. Compliance with these regulations is costly and may make it more difficult to operate profitably. Federal and state banking laws and regulations govern numerous matters including the payment of dividends, the acquisition of other banks and the establishment of new banking offices. We must also meet specific regulatory capital requirements. Our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and policies or to maintain our capital requirements affects our ability to pay dividends on common stock, our ability to grow through the development of new offices and our ability to make acquisitions. We currently may not pay a dividend from the Bank to the Corporation without the prior written consent of our primary banking regulators, which limits our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. These limitations may also prevent us from successfully implementing our growth and operating strategies. In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to banks could change at any time, which could significantly impact our business and profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to attract deposits and make loans. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy or insolvency of a prominent U.S. corporation, can cause legislators and banking regulators and other agencies such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and various taxing authorities to respond by adopting and or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws and regulations, or changes in or repeal of existing laws and regulations may have a material impact on our business and results of operations. Changes in regulation may cause us to devote substantial additional financial resources and management time to compliance, which may negatively affect our operating results. 16 Our issuance of securities to the US Department of the Treasury may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to our common shares. In addition, the dividend rate increases substantially after five years if we cannot redeem the shares by that time. On January 9, 2009, as part of the Capital Purchase Program established by the U.S. Department of the Treasury under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), we sold $20 million of senior preferred stock to the Department of the Treasury. We also issued to the Department of the Treasury a warrant to purchase approximately 216,000 shares of our common stock at $13.89 per share. The terms of the transaction with the Department of the Treasury limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares. For three years after issuance or until the Department of the Treasury no longer holds any preferred shares, we will not be able to increase our dividends above the most recent level before October 14, 2008 ($.19 per common share on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our shares without the Department of the Treasury’s approval with limited exceptions, most significantly purchases in connection with benefit plans. Also, we will not be able to pay any dividends at all unless we are current on our dividend payments on the preferred shares. These restrictions, as well as the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Unless we are able to redeem the preferred stock during the first five years, the dividends on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% (approximately $1 million annually) to 9% (approximately $1.8 million annually). Depending on market conditions and our financial performance at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our capital and liquidity. The US Department of the Treasury has the unilateral ability to change some of the restrictions imposed on us by virtue of our sale of securities to it. Our agreement with the US Department of the Treasury under which it purchased our securities imposes restrictions on our conduct of our business, including restrictions related to our payment of dividends and repurchase of our stock and related to our executive compensation and governance. The US Department of the Treasury has the right under this agreement to unilaterally amend it to the extent required to comply with any future changes in federal statutes. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 amended provisions of EESA relating to compensation and governance as they affect companies that have sold securities to the US Department of the Treasury. In some cases, these amendments require action by the US Department of the Treasury to implement them. These amendments could have an adverse impact on the conduct of our business, as could additional amendments in the future that impose further requirements or amend existing requirements. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved SEC staff comments. 17 ITEM 