Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous uncertainties and risks. Investors evaluating our Company and our business should carefully consider the factors described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent amendments thereto and reports we file with the SEC. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this report. Any of the following factors could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition and/or negatively affect our stock price. Additional factors and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could also harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements based on circumstances or events which occur in the future. The actual results may differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this report. Future revenue growth and our ability to achieve future profitable operations depend on the market's acceptance of our new mobile solution. In light of the continuing adoption of mobile technology, the Company has invested in its next generation platform: XRS. The XRS solution, which uses readily available smartphones, tablets and rugged handhelds devices, will eventually replace our XataNet, Turnpike and MobileMax solutions. In order to achieve revenue growth, we will need to sell and retain a higher volume of software subscriptions as the XRS mobile solution will have a lower monthly subscription price than some of our legacy solutions. In addition, in order to achieve margin growth we will need to successfully implement lower cost deployment and support strategies and effectively reduce infrastructure costs of legacy solutions. If the new mobile solution is not accepted by new customers and we are unable to successfully convert our existing customers to the new solution, revenues could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. Failure to effectively and efficiently attract, sell to and retain small and medium-sized businesses fleets would adversely affect our operating results. We sell our solutions to fleets of all sizes. However, in the current year, it will be imperative for us to drive near-term mobile-based sales to small to mid-sized fleets with the XRS solution as we continue to align with strategic third-party providers to broaden the capabilities of the XRS mobile solution to meet the more complex demands of larger fleets. Small and medium-sized fleets are challenging to reach, acquire and retain in a cost-effective manner. Selling to and retaining small and medium-sized fleets customers is more difficult than selling to and retaining enterprise fleets as small and medium-sized fleets customers generally: •have high failure rates;•are price sensitive;•are difficult to reach with targeted sales campaigns;•have high churn rates in part because of the scale of their businesses and the ease of switching service providers; and•generate less revenue per customer and per transaction.If we are unable to market and sell our solutions to small and medium-sized fleets with competitive pricing and in a cost-effective manner, our ability to grow our revenue and maintain and grow our profitability will be harmed. Our existing customers might cancel or fail to renew contracts or choose not to convert to our new mobile solution. Certain of the Company's large customers that generate significant revenues may cancel or not renew their contracts potentially causing a significant adverse impact on our business. In fiscal 2013, 26 percent of our revenue was generated by our top five customers. The Company's XataNet and MobileMax customers have typically entered into 9Table of Contentsmulti-year contracts with automatic renewal, or in certain circumstances, month-to-month contracts. Historically, the majority of our Turnpike customers have operated under month-to-month contracts, allowing them the ability to terminate the agreement upon providing 30-days notice. The XRS mobile solution will typically be structured on a multi-year contract basis. We will continue to have declining hardware systems revenue as customers shift away from hardware-based solutions to mobile-based solutions that use mobile devices supplied by third parties. Until we are able to generate a significant portion of our revenue from our XRS mobile solution and have successfully converted our existing customers to the XRS mobile solution, we will incur the cost of supporting our legacy solutions and related hardware systems, while attempting to maintain our revenue base from those solutions. These combined support and development costs will continue to adversely impact our profitability. If our existing customers cancel or fail to renew their contracts for our existing solutions or choose not to convert to our XRS mobile solution, our overall revenues and profitability may decline if we are not able to derive sufficient revenue from new customers. There is no assurance that we can successfully bridge the transformation of our customer base from our XataNet, MobileMax and Turnpike solutions to our XRS mobile solution.Our market is highly competitive and is subject to revenue fluctuations. Competition in the fleet management and electronic logging device space is highly fragmented with providers offering products ranging in sophistication and cost from basic electronic logging devices to advanced mobile satellite communication and information systems. Our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors, including the price, quality and performance of our solutions; our quality of customer service; the development of new technology; the ability of new and existing solutions to meet compliance requirements; and the ability of our solutions to be compatible with solutions provided by others in the industry. As the requirements for electronic logging devices are defined by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), it is likely we will face additional competition from current providers of on-board computing platforms and face additional pressure from other products from vendors outside the Company's traditional competitive landscape. Competition in the future may, in some cases, result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could decrease our revenue and growth rates or impair our operating results and financial condition. We believe that our future ability to compete successfully against existing and additional competitors will depend largely on our ability to execute our strategy to provide cost effective mobile solutions with significantly differentiated features. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully, and our solutions may not be competitive with other technologies or solutions that may be developed by our competitors, which may adversely affect future results of operations. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition, which could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in revenue. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer more comprehensive services than they individually had offered or achieve greater economies of scale. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter our market through acquisitions, partnerships or strategic relationships. We expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. The potential entrants may have competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied services and larger marketing budgets, as well as greater financial, technical and other resources. The companies resulting from combinations or that expand or vertically integrate their business to include the market that we address may create more compelling service offerings and may offer greater pricing flexibility than we can or may engage in business practices that make it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or service functionality. These pressures could result in a substantial loss of our customers or a reduction in our revenue. 10Table of ContentsThe commercial trucking industry is subject to significant and increasing regulations that could affect our solutions. The commercial trucking industry is subject to numerous regulations that place mandates on many aspects of the businesses operating in the commercial trucking industry, including the collection and maintenance of data, operational and safety requirements of products and methods of reporting driver and vehicle information. In June 2012, the U.S. Congress passed legislation that will eventually require the use of an electronic logging device to track hours of service for truck carriers that are required to file a record of duty status under the rules of the FMCSA. This new legislation will require truckers to move away from paper logs to an electronic logging solution. Because this new legislation could expand the marketplace for our types of products, it should increase our market opportunities but could also attract increased competition from existing or new competitors. If this new legislation is repealed or if the mandate to use electronic logging solutions is significantly delayed, we will lose these new market opportunities. If new laws or regulations are created that make our solutions less valuable or unauthorized, relationships with current customers could be damaged, and we could lose prospective customers. In addition, an inability to offer compliant solutions cost effectively could harm our reputation and brand, adversely impact our operating results and may require us to spend additional capital to gain compliance. We have a limited number of solutions, and those solutions are concentrated in one industry. Our solutions target only the commercial trucking industry in the U.S. and Canada. If this market segment experiences a downturn that decreases our sales, the development of new solutions and expansion into new markets could require significant time and substantial funding. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new solutions, enhance existing solutions, ensure solutions remain updated with changing compliance regulations and achieve market acceptance of such solutions. We may incur problems in the future in innovating and introducing new solutions. Our development-stage solutions may not be successfully developed or, if developed, may not achieve significant customer acceptance. The timely availability of these solutions in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. If we are unable to successfully define, develop and introduce compelling new solutions, if other companies develop similar solutions or if we do not enhance existing solutions, our number of customers may not grow as anticipated or may decline, which would adversely affect future results of operations.Our solutions may quickly become obsolete. The field of technology is constantly undergoing rapid change, and we may not be able to react or adapt as quickly as necessary. Moreover, development efforts by our competitors could make our solutions less competitive or obsolete. We believe that advancements in mobile technology provide opportunities for us to partner with a number of independent software vendors (ISVs) offering products complementary to our solutions to enhance customer productivity. We cannot be assured that we can form alliances with such companies or that any such alliance will be successful. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry requirements and introduce new features and enhancements to our mobile solutions on a timely basis through our own product development and through alliances with ISVs. If we are unable to do so for technological or other reasons, or if new features or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our XRS mobile solution must successfully function using cloud technology. Unlike our existing solutions which use a private data center dedicated to our customers, the XRS mobile solution uses public cloud technology. Because our customers will pay a fixed monthly fee for our cloud-based service, we must successfully manage the variable cost components of our contract with the cloud provider to achieve sustainable profit margins. Our contract with the cloud provider, which is a standard customer contract, allows the provider to change pricing or modify or terminate their customer contracts at any time. Because the cloud provider has a large number of customers using its public cloud services, we believe that adverse contractual changes are 11Table of Contentsunlikely. If those types of changes occurred and we decided to use a different cloud service platform or vendor, it would take time and investment to make that transition, which could materially adversely impact our business.We utilize third-party resellers to sell our mobile solutions. Many of our mobile subscriptions are sold to customers through AT&T, Sprint and Verizon Wireless and other third-party resellers. Our current reseller contracts with these third-parties are non-exclusive and do not contain any minimum sales commitments to us. Because we do not control the sales activities of these third-party resellers, our future success will depend in large part on whether these parties can effectively sell our solutions to the commercial trucking industry. Future sales through these third-party resellers are also difficult to forecast because we do not have complete visibility to the activities of their respective sales organizations. Our future operating results will be adversely affected if we do not generate sufficient sales leads, these third-party resellers do not sell our solutions to a sufficient number of truck owners or operators or if these third-party resellers choose not to renew their reseller contracts.We depend on proprietary technology. Our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technology. We have been issued patents by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that cover certain aspects of our MobileMax solution. We have applied for software-related patents for our Turnpike and XRS solutions, but there is no assurance those patents will be granted. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws; confidentiality procedures; and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These measures afford us only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our systems or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, or our competitors may independently develop similar technology. Either of these events could adversely affect us.We depend on a key software development firm and a key contract manufacturer. We retained a third-party software development firm to assist us with developing our XRS mobile solution, as well as future enhancements. If this firm does not satisfy our delivery requirements, functionality of our XRS mobile solutions may be compromised. We also use a contract manufacturer to build the Relay and RouteTracker devices that connect to a truck's engine bus and communicate engine and truck data via Bluetooth to the mobile device running our mobile solution. If this contract manufacturer does not satisfy our delivery requirements for these Relay and RouteTracker devices, sales of our mobile solutions could be adversely affected.We depend in part on confidentiality agreements that may not adequately protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, which could adversely affect our business. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our proprietary technologies and related processes. In order to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, we rely in part on trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, independent contractors, and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets or develop similar technologies and processes, and, in either event we would not be able to assert trade secret rights. Further, laws in certain jurisdictions may afford little or no trade secret protection, and any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our intellectual property rights, and failure or inability to obtain or maintain trade secret protection or otherwise protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. 12Table of ContentsWe depend on wireless communication networks owned and controlled by others. Our legacy solutions are dependent on continued access to wireless communication networks and satellite providers (collectively, "wireless communication networks") with sufficient capacity. Our ability to maintain our legacy customer base and related revenue depends on the ability of these wireless communication networks to provide sufficient network capacity, reliability and security to our customers. Even where wireless communication networks provide coverage to entire regions, there are occasional lapses in coverage. An inability by wireless communication networks to provide uninterrupted coverage with sufficient capacity to capture and transmit data could make our services less reliable and less useful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our financial condition could be seriously harmed if the wireless communication networks we rely on were to increase the price of their services or suffer operational or technical failures.Our mobile solutions are not compatible with every model or type of smartphone, tablet or rugged handheld device and we must continually adapt our software for new mobile devices.Our proprietary mobile software is not compatible with every model or type of smartphone, tablet and rugged handheld. The marketplace for mobile devices changes rapidly, with periodic updates to operating systems and frequent introductions of new devices and discontinuation of older devices. We have currently certified over 50 mobile devices for use with our mobile solutions, which represents only a portion of those types of devices available in the marketplace. Because it is not economically or technically practical to certify every mobile device, we must focus our certification efforts on the most popular mobile devices used in our target markets. If we are unable to certify our mobile software for use with popular smartphones, tablets and rugged handhelds, we risk losing that market opportunity which could adversely affect future results of operations. Third parties may claim we infringe on their intellectual property rights. Many participants in the technology industry, as well as third parties that have obtained patent rights, have regularly demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Accordingly, we may be subject to claims that our solutions infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim, whether valid or not, could become a significant expense. Any such claims or litigation could require us to incur substantial costs and divert significant valuable resources, including the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which could harm the results of our operations and our financial condition. Specifically, such claims or litigations could require us to stop selling the affected solutions, redesign those solutions to avoid infringement or obtain a license, all of which could be costly and harmful to our business. In addition, if claims are brought against our customer for infringement relating to our solutions, we may incur costs indemnifying our customers, and our relationships with our customers may be harmed. John Deere Special Technologies Group, Inc. (“JDSTG”), entities affiliated with Technology Crossover Management VII, Ltd. (collectively, “TCV”), and entities affiliated with Trident Capital Management-V, LLC (collectively, “Trident Capital”) are represented on our Board of Directors and, individually and collectively, own enough capital stock to exert significant influence over XRS Corporation. As of December 13, 2013, JDSTG was the record holder of 2,144,060 shares of our common stock. Under the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement between XRS Corporation and JDSTG, as amended, JDSTG has certain rights with respect to corporate actions, including the right to nominate and replace up to three members of our Board of Directors.As of December 13, 2013, TCV held a substantial portion of our outstanding shares of Series G Preferred Stock, representing the right to vote 9,166,666 shares of our common stock on an as-converted basis. Under the terms of our Certificate of Designation of Preferences of Series G Preferred Stock, TCV (as the majority holder of our outstanding Series G Preferred Stock) has the right to nominate, replace and vote as a separate class with respect to a member of our Board of Directors. In addition, TCV has certain rights of first refusal on certain new equity issuances by us, which is intended to provide TCV with an opportunity to maintain its current ownership. A Voting 13Table of ContentsAgreement between us, TCV and JDSTG is in place to further support certain of TCV's rights.As of December 13, 2013, Trident Capital held all of our outstanding shares of Series B, Series C and Series D Preferred Stock and portions of our outstanding shares of Series F and Series G Preferred Stock, representing the right to vote 7,077,348 shares of our commons stock on an as-converted basis. Under the terms of our Certificate of Designation of Preferences of Series B Preferred Stock, Trident Capital (as the sole holder of our outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock), has the right to nominate, replace and vote as a separate class with respect to up to two members of our Board of Directors. In addition, Trident Capital has certain rights of first refusal on certain new equity issuances by us, which is intended to provide Trident Capital with an opportunity to maintain its current ownership. An Amended and Restated Voting Agreement among us, JDSTG and Trident Capital is in place to further support certain of Trident Capital's rights.The beneficial ownership and additional rights held by JDSTG, TCV and Trident Capital enable these shareholders, both individually and collectively, to exercise significant influence over the Company.We may need additional capital. If we do not generate anticipated cash flow levels, our predictions regarding cash needs may prove inaccurate, and we may require additional financing. If we require additional financing and we are unable to obtain such financing on favorable terms, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets, and future impairment of our goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. We test our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if triggering events are identified. We test our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment if a triggering event is identified that indicates the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Existence of impairment for both our goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of each asset to their respective carrying values on the balance sheet. In June 2012, we recorded a charge of $3.5 million for impairment to certain intangible assets related to our 2008 acquisition of Geologic Solutions, Inc. At September 30, 2013, our goodwill and intangible assets were $21.2 million and represented 43 percent of our total assets. Long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairments. Because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our common stock could be delisted due to failure to satisfy a continued listing rule or standard. The NASDAQ Stock Market Rules require that we maintain a minimum of $35.0 million in market value of listed securities, $2.5 million in shareholder equity or $0.5 million of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year, or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. In addition, the closing bid price of the listed securities must not be less than $1.00 per share for any consecutive 30-day period. Failure to meet these requirements could result in our common stock being delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted, the value of our common stock may decrease and it may be more difficult to sell shares of our common stock. The market for our common stock is limited, and you may not be able to sell the shares of our common stock that you hold. Our common stock is thinly traded, the market for purchases and sales of our common stock is limited, and the sale of a limited number of shares could cause a volatile stock price. Accordingly, it may be difficult to sell shares of our common stock quickly without significantly depressing the value of the stock. 14Table of ContentsWe may issue additional stock without shareholder consent. We have authorized 100,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 10,926,142 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 13, 2013. The Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares. Additional shares may be issued in connection with future financing, acquisitions or otherwise. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. We are also currently authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 13, 2013, there were 2,394,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, 1,269,000 shares of Series C Preferred Stock, 1,567,000 shares of Series D Preferred Stock, 1,340,000 shares of Series F Preferred Stock, and 10,067,000 shares of Series G Preferred Stock that were issued and outstanding. The Board of Directors can issue additional preferred stock in one or more series and fix the terms of such stock without shareholder approval. Preferred stock may include the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and other preferential provisions. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock and reduce the value of the common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party.Our directors' liability is limited under Minnesota law and under certain agreements. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended and restated, state that our directors are not liable for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for a breach of the duty of loyalty; for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; for dividend payments or stock repurchases illegal under Minnesota law; or for any transaction in which the director derived an improper personal benefit. In addition, our bylaws provide that we shall indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law for all expenses incurred in the settlement of any actions against them in connection with their service as officers or directors of the Company. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with TCV and Trident Capital, and their representatives who serve as directors on our Board, which may supplement the indemnification provisions available to them under Minnesota law.Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we fail to establish and maintain effective control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results could be adversely affected. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although we are committed to continuing to improve our internal control processes, and although we will continue to diligently and vigorously review our internal control over financial reporting, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Therefore, we cannot be certain that, in the future, a material weakness or significant deficiency will not exist or otherwise be discovered. If our efforts to address the weakness identified are not successful, or if other deficiencies occur, these weaknesses or deficiencies could result in misstatements of our results of operations, additional restatements of our consolidated financial statements, a decline in our stock price and investor confidence or other material effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.15Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.