Item 1A. Risk Factors We do not have a long or stable history of profitable operations. The Company’s net losses to common shareholders for the fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were $3.6 million and $7.8 million, respectively. The respective periods’ net losses were $3.4 million and $6.8 million. Additional amounts of $0.2 million and $1.0 million, resulting from beneficial conversion charges and preferred stock dividends increased such respective period losses to the aforementioned levels of net losses to common shareholders. Our existing customers might cancel contracts with us, fail to renew contracts or fail to purchase additional services and products. We sell large orders to individual fleets and may be dependent upon a few major customers each year whose volume of purchases is significantly greater than that of other customers. As we continue to grow our existing customer base this risk will lessen, but until such time we are still dependent on our installed customer base for our recurring revenues, which is a significant portion of our overall revenue. If our customers cancel existing contracts, fail to renew their service contracts or fail to purchase additional services or products, then our revenues could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our market is highly competitive and is subject to revenue fluctuations. Many of the companies who offer competitive products offer products ranging in sophistication and cost from basic onboard recorders to advanced mobile satellite communication and information systems. Their products may offer better or more functions than ours or may be more effectively marketed. In addition, the nature and sources of competition in our industry are rapidly evolving and increasingly depend on the ability to deliver integration of multiple information systems. Given that the period required to complete a sale of our systems has historically been up to a year or longer, we must continue the development of new technologies and the adaptation of new and existing products to be compatible with products and services provided by others in the industry. The length of our sales cycle may also result in quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue. The fleet trucking segment of the transportation industry is also subject to fluctuations and business cycles and a significant downturn in its prospects could have a material, adverse affect on us. Moreover, our customers and potential customers may freeze or reduce budget spending during the current economic downturn, which could further delay our sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We have a limited number of products and those products are concentrated in one industry. Although our systems have potential applications in a number of industries, to date we have targeted only the fleet trucking segment of the transportation industry. If this market segment experiences a downturn that decreases our sales, the development of new applications and markets could take several months or longer, and could require substantial funding. In addition, our future success is dependent in part on developing and marketing new software applications. We cannot assure that new applications can be successfully developed or marketed in a timely manner. We are dependent on key personnel and contract manufacturers. Our staff is small and our future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of key management, technical and sales personnel. The Company’s continued growth will place an increasing strain on our resources, and we could experience difficulties relating to a variety of operational matters, including hiring, training and managing an increasing number of employees, obtaining sufficient quantities of product from vendors, obtaining sufficient materials and contract manufacturers to produce our products, expanding our distribution capabilities and enhancing our customer service, financial, and operating systems. The loss of key employees or a contract manufacturer in a period of rapid growth could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 9 Table of Contents We are dependent on proprietary technology. Our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technology. We have been issued patents by the United States Patent and Trademark Office that cover certain aspects of our technology and processes and have recently applied for several software-related patents, but we have not yet been awarded patents on any of our software programs. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These measures afford only limited protection. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may prove inadequate, or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, either of which could adversely affect us. In addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our systems or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We depend on wireless communication networks owned and controlled by others. If we are unable to deliver continued access to communication services with sufficient capacity, our revenues could decrease. Our ability to grow and achieve profitability depends on the ability of satellite and digital cellular wireless carriers to provide sufficient network capacity, reliability and security to our customers. Even where wireless carriers provide coverage to entire regions, there are occasional lapses in coverage, for example due to man-made or natural obstructions blocking the transmission of data. These effects could make our services less reliable and less useful, and customer satisfaction could suffer. Our financial condition could be seriously harmed if our wireless carriers were to increase the prices of their services, or to suffer operational or technical failures. Our products may quickly become obsolete. Our systems utilize proprietary software and onboard touch-screen computers. Although we believe our proprietary software is more important in the capture and communication of operating data than the hardware on which the software operates, continued improvements in hardware may render our technology, including its software, obsolete. The field of software and hardware is constantly undergoing rapid technological change and we may not be able to react and adapt to changes in this field. Moreover, development by our competitors could make our systems and services less competitive or obsolete. We believe that advancements in hardware and communications technology provide opportunities for us to form alliances with companies offering products complementary to our systems and services, but we cannot assure that we can form alliances with such companies or that any such alliance will be successful. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards, and develop and introduce new features and enhancements to our system on a timely basis. If we are unable to do so for technological or other reasons or if new features or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may encounter technical or other difficulties that could in the future delay the introduction of new systems or system features or enhancements. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. Many participants in the technology industry, as well as third parties that have obtained patent rights, have regularly demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Accordingly, we may be subject to claims that our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim, whether valid or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. Such claims or litigations could require us to stop selling the affected products, redesign those products to avoid infringement, or obtain a license, all of which would be costly and harm our business. JDSTG and Trident Capital, who are represented on our Board of Directors, individually and together own enough stock to exert significant influence over XATA. As of December 10, 2008, beneficial ownership of Common Stock, as reported in our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on February 4, 2009, held by JDSTG was approximately 24.4 percent and by Trident Capital was approximately 39.1 percent of our common stock. In addition, JDSTG is entitled to name up to three representatives to our Board of Directors and Trident is entitled to name up to two representatives. Trident is entitled to vote its Preferred Stock as if converted to common stock and to vote as a separate class (to the exclusion of the holders of common stock) on the election of its two director nominees. Both JDSTG and Trident benefit from certain restrictive covenants of XATA in connection with their equity investments in the Company. The combination of stock ownership and Board of Director representation enables these shareholders, individually and together, to a greater degree, to exercise significant influence over the Company. 10 Table of Contents We may need additional capital. If we do not generate anticipated cash flow to met operating and debt service needs, or if we grow at a rate faster than we anticipate, our predictions regarding cash needs may prove inaccurate and we may require additional financing. Our inability to obtain needed financing could have a material adverse effect on operating results. We cannot assure that we will be able to secure additional financing when needed or that financing, if obtained, will be on terms favorable or acceptable to us. Moreover, future financing may result in dilution to holders of our common stock. If we are unable to comply with the covenants in our debt arrangements, our outstanding debt could become immediately payable. Our debt agreements contain covenants, including minimum level of net worth and fixed charge coverage ratio, and other affirmative covenants. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants, for any reason, some or all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable. In such case, we may not have sufficient cash to pay our debts or, if our cash is utilized to repay outstanding debt, we could experience an immediate and significant reduction in working capital available to operate our business. If our common share price decreases to a level such that the fair value of our net assets is less than the carrying value of our net assets, we may be required to record additional significant non-cash charges associated with goodwill impairment. We account for goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” SFAS No. 142, among other things, requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually. We have designated July 1 as the date for our annual impairment test. Although the results of our testing on July 1, 2008, indicated no evidence of impairment, should the fair value of our net assets, determined by our market capitalization, be less than the carrying value of our net assets at future annual impairment test dates, we may have to recognize goodwill impairment losses in our future results of operations. This could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Fair value assessments of our intangible assets required by GAAP may require us to record significant non-cash charges associated with intangible asset impairment. A significant portion of our assets are intangibles relating to customer agreements and relationships. We amortize these assets on a straight-line basis over their estimated lives, which are estimated to be eight years. We review the carrying value of these assets at least annually for evidence of impairment. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of,” an impairment loss is recognized when the estimate of undiscounted future cash flows generated by such assets is less than the carrying amount. Measurement of the impairment loss is based on the present value of the expected future cash flows. Future fair value assessments of intangible assets may require impairment charges to be recorded in the results of operations for future periods. This could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We may issue additional stock without shareholder consent. We have authorized 25,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 8,775,769 shares were issued and outstanding as of November 30, 2008. The Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares. Additional shares may be issued in connection with future financing, acquisitions, employee stock plans, or otherwise. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. We are also currently authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of November 30, 2008, 1,964,000 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, 1,269,000 Series C Convertible Preferred Stock and 1,567,000 shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding. The Board of Directors can issue additional preferred stock in one or more series and fix the terms of such stock without shareholder approval. Preferred stock may include the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock and reduce the value of the common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. 11 Table of Contents Our common stock could be delisted due to failure to satisfy a continued listing rule or standard. The Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3)(B) requires the Company to have a minimum $35 million in market value of listed securities, $2.5 million in shareholders’ equity, or $500,000 in net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. Nasdaq previously informed the Company that it was out of compliance with the Rule and provided 30 calendar days, or until September 26, 2005, to regain compliance with the Rule. By virtue of the Trident Capital investment in September 2005, we regained compliance with the Nasdaq Marketplace listing requirements. However, Nasdaq has advised us that it will continue to monitor our compliance with the listing standards. If we fail to show compliance with all provisions of the Rule, we may be subject to delisting. Our directors’ liability is limited under Minnesota law and under certain agreements. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended and restated, state that our directors are not liable for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for a breach of the duty of loyalty, for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, for dividend payments or stock repurchases illegal under Minnesota law or for any transaction in which the director derived an improper personal benefit. In addition, our bylaws provide that we shall indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law for all expenses incurred in the settlement of any actions against them in connection with their service as officers or directors of the Company. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with the Trident investors, and its representatives who serve as directors on our Board, which may supplement the indemnification provisions available to them under Minnesota law. We face burdens relating to the recent trend toward stricter corporate governance and financial reporting standards. New legislation or regulations that follow the trend of imposing stricter corporate governance and financial reporting standards, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, continues to increase our costs of compliance. A failure to comply with these new laws and regulations may impact market perception of our financial condition and could materially harm our business. Additionally, it is unclear what additional laws or regulations may develop, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any future changes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 