Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves significant risks. You should carefully read and consider the factors listed below before you invest. These risk factors may adversely affect our financial condition, including future earnings. You should read this section together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in our market area. Our success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions in the northern Virginia area. The local economic conditions in this area have a significant impact on the loans that we make to our borrowers, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. In recent years, there has been a proliferation of technology and communications business in our market area. The current recession in those industries has had a significant adverse impact on a number of those businesses. While we do not have significant credit exposure to these businesses, the recession in these industries could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values generally, which could negatively affect our profitability. We have significant credit exposure in our commercial lending area, for loans secured by real estate and residential construction loans. Although there are no real signs of a housing bubble in our market area, and we do not anticipate one, the decline of the real estate and housing markets in our area could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. The inability to operate Premier Bank successfully may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Premier Bank opened as our third banking subsidiary in July 2005. The business of the bank is subject to the risks inherent in the establishment of any new business enterprise. As a result, we are unable to give any assurance as to the ultimate success of Premier Bank. In addition, we do not expect Premier Bank to be profitable in the initial years of operation due to substantial start-up expenditures that a new bank generally incurs and the time that it will take to develop its deposit base and loan portfolio. As a result, the expense involved in operating Premier Bank may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Premier Bank will encounter strong competition from commercial banks and other financial institutions that are well established in the bank’s market area. Most competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the bank will have and offer certain services, such as extensive branch networks and trust services, that the bank either does not expect to provide or will not provide initially. Competition for deposit services will also be strong. 11 The integration of the operations of Rockingham Heritage Bank and Albemarle First Bank may be more difficult than anticipated. On January 12, 2006, the Corporation, Rockingham Heritage Bank and Albemarle First Bank entered into an agreement and plan of merger. The success of our pending merger with Albemarle First Bank will depend on a number of factors, including (but not limited to) our ability to: · timely and successfully integrate the operations of Rockingham Heritage Bank and Albemarle First Bank; · maintain existing relationships with depositors in Albemarle First Bank to minimize withdrawals of deposits subsequent to the merger; · maintain and enhance existing relationships with borrowers to limit unanticipated losses from loans of Albemarle First Bank; · control the incremental non-interest expense from Rockingham Heritage Bank to maintain overall operating efficiencies; · retain and attract qualified personnel at Rockingham Heritage Bank and Albemarle First Bank; and · compete effectively in the communities served by Rockingham Heritage Bank and Albemarle First Bank and in nearby communities. We may not be able to manage effectively our growth resulting from the merger. The merger with Albemarle First Bank may distract management from its other responsibilities. The pending acquisition of Albemarle First Bank could cause our management to focus its time and energies on matters related to the acquisition that otherwise would be directed to our business and operations. Any such distraction on the part of management, if significant, could affect its ability to service existing business and develop new business and adversely affect our business and earnings. Our organizational structure of subsidiary banks that operate independently limits cost savings that would otherwise enhance our profitability. Our subsidiary banks operate autonomously, with separate local identities, management teams and decision-making processes, and without strict operating control from the holding company. Each bank has full responsibility for day-to-day operations, with minimal support from the holding company level. While we believe that this structure is fundamentally important in building relationships with our customers, this structure does not emphasize a centralization of operating functions, such as accounting, marketing, human resources, loan review and regulatory compliance. As a result, our banks may experience operating costs that, in the aggregate, are higher than the operating costs of a bank holding company that has centralized operating functions. These higher operating costs may limit the profitability that we could achieve with a less autonomous subsidiary structure. A loss of our senior officers could impair our relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business. Many community banks attract customers based on the personal relationships that the banks’ officers and customers establish with each other and the confidence that the customers have in the officers. We depend on the performance of John K. Stephens, our Chairman and President and Chief Executive Officer of Rockingham Heritage Bank, and Donald L. Unger, our President and CEO. Mr. Stephens and Mr. Unger each have over 37 years of experience in the banking industry and have numerous contacts in our market area. We also depend on the performance of Meryl Kiser, President and CEO of the newly-opened Premier Bank. Mr. Kiser has over 23 years of experience in the banking industry and numerous contacts in Premier Bank’s market area. We believe that their extent of experience 12 and contacts provide us with an advantage over other community banks in our market, who have chief executive officers with less experience and fewer contacts. The loss of the services of any of Mr. Stephens, Mr. Unger, or Mr. Kiser, or the failure of either to perform management functions in the manner anticipated by our board of directors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will be dependent upon the board’s ability to attract and retain quality personnel, including these individuals. We have attempted to reduce our risk by carrying key man life insurance on these individuals and including a non-competition covenant in the employment agreement with Mr. Unger. We currently do not have an employment agreement with either Mr. Kiser or Mr. Stephens. We may not be able to maintain and manage our growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the last two years, we have experienced significant growth, and our business strategy calls for continued expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to open new branch offices, attract deposits to those locations, and identify loan and investment opportunities. Our ability to manage growth successfully also will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth and maintain cost controls and asset quality. If we are unable to sustain our growth, our earnings could be adversely affected. If we grow too quickly, however, and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, rapid growth also could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition to new branch offices, our growth may be enhanced through acquisitions of other financial institutions, but we may not be able successfully to identify and attract suitable acquisition candidates and complete acquisitions. Our strategic plan includes the evaluation and acquisition of other financial institutions, including our pending acquisition of Albemarle First Bank. While we generally expect our revenues to increase over time from internal growth, we would also expect that growth through acquisitions would increase our revenues. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to identify and attract suitable acquisition candidates successfully that will permit us to expand into new or existing markets. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidates will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed once negotiations have commenced. We compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with financial institutions that have substantially greater resources than we do. The failure to acquire other institutions may adversely affect the expected growth in our revenues. If we need additional capital in the future, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable and that may limit our growth. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We anticipate that we will support this growth through additional deposits at new branch locations and investment opportunities. It is possible that we may need to raise additional capital to support our future growth. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We cannot make any assurance that additional capital would be available on terms satisfactory to us at all. The failure to raise additional capital on terms that are favorable to us may force us to limit our growth strategy. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 