ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We, like other financial companies, are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our management's control. We strive to manage risks while optimizing returns. The principal risks that affect our business are: (a) credit risk, which is the risk that loan and lease customers or other counterparties will be unable to perform their contractual obligations, (b) market risk, which is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation, (c) liquidity risk, which is the risk that we will have insufficient cash or access to cash to meet our operating needs, and (d) operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems, or from external events. 13 The risks identified below, as well as in the other cautionary statements made throughout this report, identify factors that could materially and adversely affect our business, future results of operations, and future cash flows. Credit Risk We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and the judgment of management. We manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards that we follow, the review of credit decisions, and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credits we have already extended. If our credit standards and our on-going process of credit assessment do not function as intended, we could incur significant credit losses. Our loans and deposits are focused in central Kentucky. Adverse economic conditions in that region, in particular, could harm our results from operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Adverse economic conditions and other factors, such as legislative or business developments or natural hazards that may affect Kentucky, may reduce demand for credit or fee-based products and could negatively affect real estate and other collateral values, interest rate levels, and the availability of credit to refinance loans at or before maturity. Market Risk Changes in interest rates could harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as investments and loans) and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, unemployment, and money supply may also affect interest rates. If our interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than our interest-bearing liabilities in a given period, as a result of decreasing interest rates, our net interest income may decrease. Likewise, our net interest income may decrease if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period as a result of increasing interest rates. Fixed-rate loans increase our exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to repricing before assets become subject to repricing. Adjustable-rate loans decrease the risk associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks, such as the inability of borrowers to make higher payments in an increasing interest rate environment. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as the borrowers refinance their loans at lower interest rates, which could reduce net interest income and harm our results of operations. Liquidity Risk If we cannot borrow funds through access to the capital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers, or meet the operating cash needs of the Corporation to fund corporate expansion or other activities. Our liquidity policies and limits are established by the Board of Directors, with operating limits set by the Asset Liability Committee ("ALCO"), based upon analyses of the ratio of loans to deposits, the percentage of assets funded with non-core or wholesale funding. The ALCO regularly monitors the overall liquidity position of the Bank and the Corporation to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. If our liquidity policies and strategies don't work as well as intended, then we may be unable to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. The 14 ALCO follows established board approved policies and monitors guidelines to diversify our wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one-market source. Wholesale funding sources include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core brokered deposits, and medium and long-term debt, which includes Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") advances that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other available sources of liquidity, including the sale or securitization of loans, the ability to acquire additional non-core brokered deposits, additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances, the issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might not be able to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely impact our financial condition, our results of operations, cash flows, and our level of regulatory-qualifying capital. For further discussion, see the "Liquidity" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Operational Risk We have significant competition in both attracting and retaining deposits and in originating loans. Competition is intense in most of the markets we serve. We compete on price and service with other banks and financial companies such as commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, finance companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, and brokerage firms. Competition could intensify in the future as a result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of products and services from non-banks, greater technological developments in the industry, and banking reform. If our competition prices deposits or loans at rates significantly more favorable than ours, then we may have difficulty in both attracting and retaining deposits and loans. Management maintains internal operational controls and we have invested in technology to help us process large volumes of transactions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue processing at the same or higher levels of transactions. If our systems of internal controls should fail to work as expected, if our systems were to be used in an unauthorized manner, or if employees were to subvert the system of internal controls, significant losses could occur. We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operation risk, which could cause us to incur substantial losses. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide management with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost effective levels. We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. From time to time, we experience loss from operational risk, including the effects of operational errors, and these losses may be substantial. While management continually monitors and improves our system of internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate wide processes and procedures, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. New, or changes in existing tax, accounting, are regulatory laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. 15 The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company's shareholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading "Regulation." These regulations, along with currently existing tax, accounting, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy of U.S. companies, can cause legislators, regulators, and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and other various taxing authorities to respond by adopting and or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws and regulations, or changes in or repeal of existing laws and regulations may have a material impact on our business and results of operations. Changes in regulation may cause us to devote substantial additional financial resources and management time to compliance, which may negatively affect our operating results. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 16 