Item 1A. Risk Factors We do not have a long or stable history of profitable operations. The Company’s net losses to common shareholders for the fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were $3.2 million and $2.8 million, respectively. The respective periods’ net losses were $1.3 million and $2.1 million. Additional amounts of $1.9 million and $0.7 million, resulting from beneficial conversion charges and preferred stock dividends increased such respective period losses to the aforementioned levels of net losses to common shareholders. Our existing customers might cancel contracts with us, fail to renew contracts or fail to purchase additional services and products. We sell large orders to individual fleets and may be dependent upon a few major customers each year whose volume of purchases is significantly greater than that of other customers. As we continue to grow our existing customer base this risk will lessen, but until such time we are still dependent on our installed customer base for our recurring revenues, which is a significant portion of our overall revenue. Our private fleet and for- hire customers historically have renewed at a 8 Table of Contents high rate. Notwithstanding these retention rates, if our customers cancel existing contracts, fail to renew their service contracts or fail to purchase additional services or products, then our revenues could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our market is highly competitive and is subject to revenue fluctuations. Many of the companies who offer competitive products offer products ranging in sophistication and cost from basic onboard recorders to advanced mobile satellite communication and information systems. Their products may offer better or more functions than ours or may be more effectively marketed. In addition, the nature and sources of competition in our industry are rapidly evolving and increasingly depend on the ability to deliver integration of multiple information systems. Given that the period required to complete a sale of our systems has historically been up to a year or longer, we must continue the development of new technologies and the adaptation of new and existing products to be compatible with products and services provided by others in the industry. The length of our sales cycle may also result in quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue. The fleet trucking segment of the transportation industry is also subject to fluctuations and business cycles and a significant downturn in its prospects could have a material, adverse affect on us. Moreover, our customers and potential customers may freeze or reduce budget spending during the current economic downturn, which could further delay our sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We have a limited number of products and those products are concentrated in one industry. Although our systems have potential applications in a number of industries, to date we have targeted only the trucking segment of the transportation industry. If this market segment experiences a downturn that decreases our sales, the development of new applications and markets could take several months or longer, and could require substantial funding. In addition, our future success is dependent in part on developing and marketing new software applications. We cannot assure that new applications can be successfully developed or marketed in a timely manner. We are dependent on key contract manufacturers. We use a variety of product and engineering vendors, a small number of which are critical to our business. The Company’s continued growth could place an increasing strain on these vendors and the loss of key contract manufacturers in a period of rapid growth could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We are dependent on proprietary technology. Our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technology. We have been issued patents by the United States Patent and Trademark Office that cover certain aspects of our technology and processes and have recently applied for several software-related patents, but we have not yet been awarded patents on any of our software programs. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These measures afford only limited protection. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may prove inadequate, or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, either of which could adversely affect us. In addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our systems or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We depend on wireless communication networks owned and controlled by others. If we are unable to deliver continued access to communication services with sufficient capacity, our revenues could decrease. Our ability to grow and achieve profitability depends on the ability of satellite and digital cellular wireless carriers to provide sufficient network capacity, reliability and security to our customers. Even where wireless carriers provide coverage to entire regions, there are occasional lapses in coverage. These effects could make our services less reliable and less useful, and customer satisfaction could suffer. Our financial condition could be seriously harmed if our wireless carriers were to increase the prices of their services, or to suffer operational or technical failures. Our products may quickly become obsolete. Our systems utilize proprietary software and onboard computer gateways and touch-screen displays. Although we believe our proprietary software is more important in the capture and communication of operating data than the hardware on which the software operates, continued improvements in hardware may render our technology, including its software, 9 Table of Contents obsolete. The field of software and hardware is constantly undergoing rapid technological change and we may not be able to react and adapt to changes in this field. Moreover, development by our competitors could make our systems and services less competitive or obsolete. We believe that advancements in hardware and communications technology provide opportunities for us to form alliances with companies offering products complementary to our systems and services, but we cannot assure that we can form alliances with such companies or that any such alliance will be successful. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards, and develop and introduce new features and enhancements to our system on a timely basis. If we are unable to do so for technological or other reasons or if new features or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may encounter technical or other difficulties that could in the future delay the introduction of new systems or system features or enhancements. Our industry is subject to significant and increasing regulations that could impact our product offerings. Both our industry, and the trucking industry that serves as our customer base, are subject to numerous legal, legislative and regulatory rules that place mandates on many aspects of the businesses, including the collection and maintenance of data, operational and safety requirements of products and methods of reporting driver and vehicle information. If new rules, regulations or laws are created that make our products or services less valuable or unauthorized we could lose customers and revenue or be required to spend additional capital to gain compliance. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. Many participants in the technology industry, as well as third parties that have obtained patent rights, have regularly demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Accordingly, we may be subject to claims that our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim, whether valid or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. Such claims or litigations could require us to stop selling the affected products, redesign those products to avoid infringement, or obtain a license, all of which would be costly and harm our business. The Company is currently named as one of many defendants in a patent infringement lawsuit. We have been able to reach settlement agreements in past cases. Technology Crossover Ventures (“TCV”), JDSTG and Trident Capital, who are represented on our Board of Directors, individually and together own enough stock to exert significant influence over XATA. As of December 13, 2010, beneficial ownership of Common Stock, as reported in our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders, held by TCV was approximately 52.9 percent, by JDSTG was approximately 20.2 percent and by Trident Capital was approximately 43.8 percent of our common stock. In addition, JDSTG is entitled to nominate up to three representatives to our Board of Directors, and both TCV and Trident is entitled to each elect up to two representatives. Both TCV and Trident are entitled to vote their Preferred Stock as if converted to common stock and to vote as a separate class (to the exclusion of the holders of common stock) on the election of its two director nominees. Each of TCV, JDSTG and Trident benefit from certain restrictive covenants of XATA in connection with their equity investments in the Company. The combination of stock ownership and Board of Director representation enables these shareholders, individually and together, to a greater degree, to exercise significant influence over the Company. We may need additional capital. If we do not generate anticipated cash flow to support our anticipated inorganic growth, our predictions regarding cash needs may prove inaccurate and we may require additional financing. During fiscal year 2010, the Company raised $30.2 million in convertible debt, which was used towards the purchase of Turnpike and to pay off the term loan with PFG of $8.0 million and the litigation settlement. Subsequent to shareholder approval in February 2010, the convertible debt was converted into shares of Series G Preferred Stock. The remaining proceeds will be utilized in working capital needs and future growth. We believe our current capital structure and predicted future cash flows from operations will be adequate to meet our operating and organic growth needs. 10 Table of Contents If our common share price decreases to a level such that the fair value of our net assets is less than the carrying value of our net assets, we may be required to record additional significant non-cash charges associated with goodwill impairment. We account for goodwill in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350-20, Intangibles — Goodwill and Others. ASC 350-20, among other things, requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually. We have designated July 1 as the date for our annual impairment test. Although the results of our testing on July 1, 2010, indicated no evidence of impairment, should the fair value of our net assets, determined by our market capitalization, be less than the carrying value of our net assets at future annual impairment test dates, we may have to recognize goodwill impairment losses in our future results of operations. This could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Fair value assessments of our intangible assets required by GAAP may require us to record significant non-cash charges associated with intangible asset impairment. A significant portion of our assets are intangibles relating to customer relationships and technology. We amortize these assets on a straight-line basis over their estimated lives. We review the carrying value of these assets at least annually, or more frequently if unusual events or market conditions warrant, for evidence of impairment. In accordance with ASC 360-10, Property, Plant, and Equipment — Overall, an impairment loss is recognized when the estimate of undiscounted future cash flows generated by such assets is less than the carrying amount. Measurement of the impairment loss is based on the present value of the expected future cash flows. Future fair value assessments of intangible assets may require impairment charges to be recorded in the results of operations for future periods. This could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We may issue additional stock without shareholder consent. We have authorized 100,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 9,816,411 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 1, 2010. The Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares. Additional shares may be issued in connection with future financing, acquisitions, employee stock plans, or otherwise. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. We are also currently authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 1, 2010, 2,126,362 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, 1,269,036 Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, 1,566,580 shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, 1,355,857 shares of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock, and 10,066,663 shares of Series G Convertible Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding. The Board of Directors can issue additional preferred stock in one or more series and fix the terms of such stock without shareholder approval. Preferred stock may include the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock and reduce the value of the common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. Our directors’ liability is limited under Minnesota law and under certain agreements. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended and restated, state that our directors are not liable for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for a breach of the duty of loyalty, for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, for dividend payments or stock repurchases illegal under Minnesota law or for any transaction in which the director derived an improper personal benefit. In addition, our bylaws provide that we shall indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law for all expenses incurred in the settlement of any actions against them in connection with their service as officers or directors of the Company. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with TCV and Trident investors, and its representatives who serve as directors on our Board, which may supplement the indemnification provisions available to them under Minnesota law. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 11 Table of Contents 