Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves significant risks. You should carefully read and consider the factors listed below before you invest. These risk factors may adversely affect our financial condition, including future earnings. You should read this section together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in our market area. Our success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions in the northern Virginia area. The local economic conditions in this area have a significant impact on the loans that we make to our borrowers, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. In recent years, there has been a proliferation of technology and communications business in our market area. The current recession in those industries has had a significant adverse impact on a number of those businesses. While we do not have significant credit exposure to these businesses, the recession in these industries could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values generally, which could negatively affect our profitability. We have significant credit exposure in our commercial lending area, for loans secured by real estate and residential construction loans. Although there are no real signs of a housing bubble in our market area, and we do not anticipate one, the decline of the real estate and housing markets in our area could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. The inability to operate Premier Bank successfully may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Premier Bank opened as our third banking subsidiary in July 2005. The business of the bank is subject to the risks inherent in the establishment of any new business enterprise. As a result, we are unable to give any assurance as to the ultimate success of Premier Bank. In addition, we do not expect Premier Bank to be profitable in the initial years of operation due to substantial start-up expenditures that a new bank generally incurs and the time that it will take to develop its deposit base and loan portfolio. As a result, the expense involved in operating Premier Bank may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Premier Bank will encounter strong competition from commercial banks and other financial institutions that are well established in the bank’s market area. Most competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the bank will have and offer certain services, such as extensive branch networks and trust services, that the bank either does not expect to provide or will not provide initially. Competition for deposit services will also be strong. Our organizational structure of subsidiary banks that operate independently limits cost savings that would otherwise enhance our profitability. Our subsidiary banks operate autonomously, with separate local identities, management teams and decision-making processes, and without strict operating control from the holding company. Each bank has full responsibility for day-to-day operations, with minimal support from the holding company level. While we believe that this structure is fundamentally important in building relationships with our customers, this structure does not emphasize a centralization of operating functions, such as accounting, marketing, human resources, loan review and regulatory compliance. As a result, our banks may experience operating costs that, in the aggregate, are higher than the 11 operating costs of a bank holding company that has centralized operating functions. These higher operating costs may limit the profitability that we could achieve with a less autonomous subsidiary structure. A loss of our senior officers could impair our relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business. Many community banks attract customers based on the personal relationships that the banks’ officers and customers establish with each other and the confidence that the customers have in the officers. We depend on the performance of John K. Stephens, our Chairman and President and Chief Executive Officer of Rockingham Heritage Bank, and Donald L. Unger, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Stephens and Mr. Unger each have over 37 years of experience in the banking industry and have numerous contacts in our market area. We believe that their extent of experience and contacts provide us with an advantage over other community banks in our market, who have chief executive officers with less experience and fewer contacts. The loss of the services of any of Mr. Stephens or Mr. Unger, or the failure of either to perform management functions in the manner anticipated by our board of directors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will be dependent upon the board’s ability to attract and retain quality personnel, including these individuals. We have attempted to reduce our risk by carrying key man life insurance on these individuals and including a non-competition covenant in employment agreements with these individuals. We may not be able to maintain and manage our growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the last two years, we have experienced significant growth, and our business strategy calls for continued expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to open new branch offices, attract deposits to those locations, and identify loan and investment opportunities. Our ability to manage growth successfully also will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth and maintain cost controls and asset quality. If we are unable to sustain our growth, our earnings could be adversely affected. If we grow too quickly, however, and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, rapid growth also could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition to new branch offices, our growth may be enhanced through acquisitions of other financial institutions, but we may not be able successfully to identify and attract suitable acquisition candidates and complete acquisitions. Our strategic plan includes the evaluation and acquisition of other financial institutions, such as our recent acquisition of Albemarle First Bank. While we generally expect our revenues to increase over time from internal growth, we would also expect that growth through acquisitions would increase our revenues. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to identify and attract suitable acquisition candidates successfully that will permit us to expand into new or existing markets. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidates will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed once negotiations have commenced. We compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with financial institutions that have substantially greater resources than we do. The failure to acquire other institutions may adversely affect the expected growth in our revenues. If we need additional capital in the future, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable and that may limit our growth. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We anticipate that we will support this growth through additional deposits at new branch locations and investment opportunities. It is possible that we may need to raise additional capital to support our future growth. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We cannot make any assurance that additional capital would be available on terms satisfactory to us at all. The failure to raise additional capital on terms that are favorable to us may force us to limit our growth strategy. 12 Risks Associated with the Merger As a result of our agreement to merge with United Bankshares, Inc., we face the additional risks identified below. We will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us and potentially on United. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is consummated, and could cause customers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing banking or other relationships. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Merger, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with United. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with United, United’s business following the Merger could be harmed. In addition, the Merger agreement restricts us from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the Merger occurs. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger. The failure to obtain required approvals and satisfy closing conditions in a timely manner may delay completion of the Merger. Completion of the Merger is conditioned upon the receipt of all governmental authorizations, consents, orders and approvals, including the required approvals from banking regulators. We and United have not yet filed any of the required regulatory applications or notices necessary to complete the Merger with each of the applicable regulatory authorities. Neither we nor United can be sure as to whether or when regulatory approvals will be obtained or that the regulatory approvals will be obtained without conditions. Such conditions may delay completion of the Merger, exposing you to the risks and uncertainties described above for a longer period of time, or may be detrimental to us or United. The merger agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the Merger. The merger agreement contains provisions that could adversely impact competing proposals to acquire us. These provisions include the prohibition generally on our soliciting any acquisition proposal or offer for a competing transaction and the requirement that we pay a termination fee of $8 million in cash if the merger agreement is terminated in specified circumstances in connection with an alternative transaction. In addition, even if our board of directors determines that a competing proposal to acquire us is superior, and thus fails to recommend that our shareholders approve the Merger, we will pay the termination fee of $8 million if the merger agreement is terminated. United required us to agree to these provisions as a condition to United’s willingness to enter into the merger agreement. These provisions, however, might discourage a third party that might have an interest in acquiring us from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if that party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher value than the current proposed merger consideration. Furthermore, the termination fee may result in a potential competing acquiror proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire us than it might otherwise have proposed to pay. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. Although we have agreed that our board of directors will, subject to fiduciary exceptions, recommend that its shareholders approve the merger agreement, there is no assurance that the merger agreement and the Merger will be approved, and there is no assurance that the other conditions to the completion of the Merger will be satisfied. If the Merger is not completed, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: • We may be required to pay United a termination fee of $8 million in cash in the aggregate if the Merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances; • The current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the Merger will occur, and a failure to complete the Merger could result in a negative perception by the stock market of us generally and a resulting decline in the market price of our common stock; 13 • Certain costs relating to the Merger (such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees) are payable by us whether or not the Merger is completed; • There may be substantial disruption to our business and a distraction of its management and employees from day-to-day operations, because matters related to the Merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; • Our business could be adversely affected if it is unable to retain key employees or attract qualified replacements; and • We would continue to face the risks that we currently face as an independent company, as further described elsewhere in this Form 10-K. In addition, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the Merger. If the Merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and materially adversely affect our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 