Item 1A. Risk Factors We do not have a long or stable history of profitable operations. The Company’s net losses to common shareholders for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were $3.0 million and $3.2 million, respectively. The respective fiscal years’ net losses were $2.8 million and $1.3 million. Included in results for fiscal 2010 was a $1.7 million of beneficial conversion charges, which increased net losses to common shareholders. 7 Table of Contents Our existing customers might cancel or fail to renew contracts or fail to purchase additional services or products. Certain of the Company’s large customers that generate significant revenues may cancel or not renew their contracts potentially causing a significant impact on our business. In fiscal 2011, 24.5 percent of our revenue was generated by our top five customers. As we continue to grow our existing customer base, this risk will lessen, but until such time, we remain dependent on our installed customer base for our recurring revenues, which is a significant portion of our overall revenue. If our customers cancel or fail to renew their existing contracts or fail to purchase additional services or products, then revenues could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our market is highly competitive and is subject to revenue fluctuations. Our market is highly competitive, and we expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. Our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors, including the price, quality and performance of our solutions; our quality of customer service; the development of new technology; and the ability of our new and existing solutions to be compatible with products and services provided by others in the industry. Within our market, we encounter direct competition from a variety of companies that offer competitive solutions ranging in sophistication and cost from basic onboard recorders to advanced mobile satellite communication and information systems. Competition in the future may, in some cases, result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could decrease our revenue and growth rates, or impair our operating results and financial condition. We believe that our future ability to compete successfully against existing and additional competitors will depend largely on our ability to execute our strategy to provide software solutions with significantly differentiated features compared to currently available solutions. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully, and our solutions may not be competitive with other technologies or products that may be developed by our competitors, some of which have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. We have a limited number of products, and those products are concentrated in one industry. Although our solutions have potential applications in a number of industries, to date we have targeted only the commercial trucking industry. If this market segment experiences a downturn that decreases our sales, the development of new solutions and markets could require significant time and substantial funding. In addition, our future revenue stream depends, to a large degree, on our ability to bring new solutions to market on a timely basis. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new solutions, enhance existing solutions and achieve market acceptance of such solutions. We may incur problems in the future in innovating and introducing new solutions. Our development-stage solutions may not be successfully developed or, if developed, may not achieve significant customer acceptance. The timely availability of these solutions in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. If we are unable to successfully define, develop and introduce compelling new solutions, if other companies develop similar solutions or if we do not enhance existing solutions, our number of customers may not grow as anticipated or may decline, which would adversely affect future results of operations. We are dependent on key software development firms and contract manufacturers. We rely on software development firms and contract manufacturers that are critical to our success. The Company’s continued growth could place an increasing strain on these vendors and the loss of a key software development firm or contract manufacturer in a period of rapid growth could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. During the ordinary course of business, we make purchase commitments with our contract manufacturers based on our foreseeable hardware component needs. Given the uncertain business environment and rapidly changing technology, we may recognize additional costs for hardware components we are unable to realize the full value of. 8 Table of Contents In addition, our current reliance on specific or a limited group of software development firms and contract manufacturers involves risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, reduced control over pricing and delivery schedules, discontinuation of certain components and economic conditions that may adversely impact the viability of our software development firms and contract manufacturers. This situation may be exacerbated during any period of economic recovery or by an increased competitive environment. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries of necessary components or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture, assemble and/or test such components internally could significantly delay our ability to ship our hardware systems, which could, in turn, damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our reputation and brand, as well as future results from operations. We are dependent on proprietary technology. Our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technology. We have been issued patents by the United States Patent and Trademark Office that cover certain aspects of our technology and processes and have recently applied for several software-related patents. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These measures afford us only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our systems or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, or our competitors may independently develop similar technology. Either of these events could adversely affect us. We depend on wireless communication networks owned and controlled by others. Our solutions are dependent on continued access to wireless communication networks with sufficient capacity. Our ability to grow and achieve profitability depends on the ability of these satellite and digital cellular wireless carriers (collectively, “wireless communication networks”) to provide sufficient network capacity, reliability and security to our customers. Even where wireless communication networks provide coverage to entire regions, there are occasional lapses in coverage. An inability by wireless communication networks to provide uninterrupted coverage with sufficient capacity to capture and transmit data could make our services less reliable and less useful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our financial condition could be seriously harmed if the wireless communication networks we rely on were to increase the price of their services or suffer operational or technical failures. Our solutions may quickly become obsolete. Our solutions utilize proprietary software, onboard computer gateways and touch-screen displays. Although we believe our proprietary software delivers more of the value of our solutions than the hardware system on which the software operates, without continued improvements in our hardware systems, our technology, including our software, may be rendered obsolete. The field of technology is constantly undergoing rapid change, and we may not be able to react or adapt as quickly as necessary. Moreover, development by our competitors could make our solutions and services less competitive or obsolete. We believe that advancements in hardware systems and communication technology provide opportunities for us to form alliances with companies offering products complementary to our solutions, but we cannot assure that we can form alliances with such companies or that any such alliance will be successful. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry requirements, and develop and introduce new features and enhancements to our solutions on a timely basis. If we are unable to do so for technological or other reasons, or if new features or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents The commercial trucking industry is subject to significant and increasing regulations that could affect our product offerings. The commercial trucking industry is subject to numerous regulations that place mandates on many aspects of the businesses operating in this industry, including the collection and maintenance of data, operational and safety requirements of products and methods of reporting driver and vehicle information. If new regulations are created that make our solutions less valuable or unauthorized, we could damage relationships with current customers and lose prospective customers. In addition, an inability to offer compliant solutions cost effectively could harm our reputation and brand, adversely impact our operating results and may require us to spend additional capital to gain compliance. Third parties may claim we infringe on their intellectual property rights. Many participants in the technology industry, as well as third parties that have obtained patent rights, have regularly demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Accordingly, we may be subject to claims that our solutions infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim, whether valid or not, could become a significant expense. Any such litigation could require us to incur substantial costs and divert significant valuable resources, including the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which could harm the results of our operations and our financial condition. Specifically, such claims or litigations could require us to stop selling the affected solutions, redesign those solutions to avoid infringement or obtain a license, all of which could be costly and harmful to our business. In addition, if claims are brought against our customer for infringement relating to our solutions, we may incur costs indemnifying our customers and our relationships with our customers may be harmed. The Company is currently named as one of many defendants in a patent infringement lawsuit as further discussed under “Legal Proceedings” Part I Item 3 below. John Deere Special Technologies Group, Inc. (“JDSTG”), entities affiliated with Technology Crossover Management VII, Ltd. (collectively, “TCV”), and entities affiliated with Trident Capital Management–V, LLC (collectively, “Trident Capital”) are represented on our Board of Directors and, individually and collectively, own enough capital stock to exert significant influence over Xata. As of December 1, 2011, JDSTG was the record holder of 2,144,060 shares of our common stock. Under the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement between Xata and JDSTG, as amended, JDSTG has certain rights with respect to corporate actions, including the right to nominate and replace up to three members of our Board of Directors. As of December 1, 2011, TCV held a substantial portion of our outstanding shares of Series G Preferred Stock, representing the right to vote 11,954,266 shares of our common stock on an as-converted basis. Under the terms of our Certificate of Designation of Preferences of Series G Preferred Stock, TCV (as the majority holder of our outstanding Series G Preferred Stock) has the right to nominate, replace and vote as a separate class with respect to a member of our Board of Directors. In addition, Trident Capital has certain rights of first refusal on certain new equity issuances by us, which is intended to provide Trident with an opportunity to maintain its current ownership. A Voting Agreement among us, TCV and JDSTG is in place to further support certain of TCV’s rights. As of December 1, 2011, Trident Capital held all of our outstanding shares of Series B, Series C and Series D Preferred Stock and portions of our outstanding shares of Series F and Series G Preferred Stock, representing the right to vote 8,358,754 shares of our commons stock on an as-converted basis. Under the terms of our Certificate of Designation of Preferences of Series B Preferred Stock, Trident Capital (as the sole holder of our outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock), has the right to nominate, replace and vote as a separate class with respect to up to two members of our Board of Directors. In addition, Trident Capital has certain rights of first refusal on certain new equity issuances by us, which is intended to provide Trident Capital with an opportunity to maintain its current ownership. An Amended and Restated Voting Agreement among us, JDSTG and Trident Capital is in place to further support certain of Trident Capital’s rights. 10 Table of Contents The beneficial ownership and additional rights held by JDSTG, TCV and Trident Capital enables these shareholders, both individually and collectively, to exercise significant influence over the Company. We may need additional capital. If we do not generate anticipated cash flow to support our anticipated growth, our predictions regarding cash needs may prove inaccurate, and we may require additional financing. During fiscal 2010, the Company raised $30.2 million in convertible debt, which was used to finance the purchase of Turnpike and to pay the outstanding balance of its revolving line of credit and term loan and a litigation settlement. Subsequent to shareholder approval in February 2010, Xata’s convertible debt was converted into shares of Series G Preferred Stock. If we require additional financing and we are unable to obtain such financing on favorable terms, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If our common share price decreases to a level such that the fair value of our net assets is less than the carrying value of our net assets, we may be required to record additional significant non-cash charges associated with goodwill impairment. We account for goodwill in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350-20, Intangibles – Goodwill and Others (ASC 350-20). ASC 350-20, among other things, requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually. We have designated July 1 as the date for our annual impairment test. Although the results of our testing on July 1, 2011, indicated no evidence of impairment, we are aware that a continued decline in our stock price may result in the value of net assets, determined by the Company’s market capitalization, being less than the carrying value, at which point we will need to assess whether the stock price continues to be a relevant factor in determining the fair value of the Company or whether we will need to recognize goodwill impairment losses in our future results of operations. This could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Fair value assessments of our identifiable intangible assets required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) may require us to record significant non-cash charges associated with intangible asset impairment. Significant portions of our assets are identifiable intangible assets relating to customer relationships and technology. We amortize these assets on a straight-line basis over their estimated lives. We review the carrying value of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset or asset group may not be recoverable in accordance with ASC 360-10, Property, Plant and Equipment – Overall (ASC 360-10). The assessment of possible impairment is based on the Company’s ability to recover the carrying value of the asset or asset group from the expected future pre-tax cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the related operations. If these cash flows are less than the carrying value of such asset or asset group, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between estimated fair value and carrying value. Future fair value assessments of our identifiable intangible assets may require impairment charges to be recorded in the results of operations for future periods. This could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our common stock could be delisted due to failure to satisfy a continued listing rule or standard. The NASDAQ Stock Market Rules require that we maintain a minimum of $35.0 million in market value of listed securities, $2.5 million in shareholder equity or $0.5 million of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year, or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. In addition, the bid price of the listed securities must not be less than $1.00 per share for any consecutive 30-day period. Failure to meet these requirements could result in our common stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted, the value of our common stock may decrease and it may be more difficult to sell shares of our common stock. 11 Table of Contents We may issue additional stock without shareholder consent. We have authorized 100,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 10,681,573 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 1, 2011. The Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares. Additional shares may be issued in connection with future financing, acquisitions, employee stock plans or otherwise. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. We are also currently authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 1, 2011, there were 2,212,267 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, 1,269,036 shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, 1,566,580 shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, 1,353,605 shares of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock, and 10,066,663 shares of Series G Convertible Preferred Stock that were issued and outstanding. The Board of Directors can issue additional preferred stock in one or more series and fix the terms of such stock without shareholder approval. Preferred stock may include the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and other preferential provisions. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock and reduce the value of the common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. Our directors’ liability is limited under Minnesota law and under certain agreements. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended and restated, state that our directors are not liable for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for a breach of the duty of loyalty; for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; for dividend payments or stock repurchases illegal under Minnesota law; or for any transaction in which the director derived an improper personal benefit. In addition, our bylaws provide that we shall indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law for all expenses incurred in the settlement of any actions against them in connection with their service as officers or directors of the Company. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with TCV and Trident Capital, and their representatives who serve as directors on our Board, which may supplement the indemnification provisions available to them under Minnesota law. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 