ITEM 1a. risk factors You should carefully consider the following factors and all other information contained in this Form 10-K before you make any investment decisions with respect to the Company’s securities. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks the Company faces. Web.com has incurred losses since inception and could incur losses in the future. Web.com has incurred net losses and losses from operations for all but one of each quarterly period from its inception through December 31, 2006. A number of factors could increase its operating expenses, such as: • Adapting network infrastructure and administrative resources to accommodate additional customers and future growth; • Developing products, distribution, marketing, and management for the broadest-possible market; • Broadening customer technical support capabilities; • Developing or acquiring new products and associated technical infrastructure; • Developing additional indirect distribution partners; • Increased costs from third party service providers; • Improving network security features; and • Legal fees and settlements associated with litigation and contingencies. To the extent that increases in operating expenses are not offset by increases in revenues, operating losses will increase. Web.com’s management and Board of Directors may be unable to execute their plans to turn around the Company, grow its revenues and achieve profitability and positive cash flows. In August 2005, the previous CEO was replaced by Jeffrey M. Stibel as Chief Executive Officer. At approximately the same time, the Company added three new Directors to its Board of Directors and since December 2005 it has also added several key executives to its management team. If the Company’s new Chief Executive Officer is unable to attract and retain management to execute the Company’s plans, or if management and the Board of Directors are unable to execute those plans, then the Company may fail to grow the Company’s revenues, contain costs and achieve profitability and positive cash flows. Ours is a recurring-revenue subscriber business and as such the effects of a net loss of monthly recurring revenue is magnified. A large majority of our revenue is derived from monthly recurring charges. Accordingly, the termination of a single account will affect revenue every month in the future. The loss of such a customer at the beginning of a fiscal year will result in a twelve-fold reduction in revenue for that fiscal year. Absent the addition of customers through acquisitions, Web.com had previously incurred a net loss in monthly recurring charges, and this situation may continue with material negative effects on reported revenue and net income. Although reductions in monthly recurring charges may be offset for a time by increases in revenue derived from one-time or non-recurring charges, the compounding effect of monthly recurring charges losses will likely result in a meaningful reduction of reported revenue over time. Moreover, because of Web.com’s relatively low percentage of variable costs, significant revenue loss can result in a loss of net income. There can be no assurance that Web.com’s continuing efforts to stabilize or increase its monthly recurring charges and revenue will be successful. If revenue declines, the Company may eventually require additional capital, which may not be available on suitable terms. Although the Company can reduce spending to some degree, there can be no assurance in such an event that the Company would be able to continue as a going concern. 8 Table of Contents Unfavorable results of existing litigation may cause Web.com to have additional expenses or operating losses that exceed the Company’s ability to pay. The Company is defending a number of matters in active litigation (See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The cost of defending lawsuits, regardless of their merit, can be substantial. Although the Company has favorably resolved a number of lawsuits through rulings, verdicts, and settlements, and although the Company may be successful in defending ongoing litigation, the costs of defense cannot be expected to be avoided. The Company believes it has appropriately established reserves for the contingency of adverse verdicts in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). In order for a loss contingency to be reserved for in the financial statements, GAAP requires that the information available prior to issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset had been impaired or a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements. It is implicit in this condition that it must be probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of the loss and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Therefore, the Company has not reserved for all of its pending lawsuits. Consequently, lawsuits for which there is no reserve pose a risk of substantial loss which could have a material effect on the Company’s results and financial position. Additionally, even in those cases where a reserve has been established, the amount of the reserve is necessarily an estimate and the actual result may differ materially. Reserves are established only for the damages that may be assessed, and do not take into account the costs of litigation. Even in those instances where Web.com may ultimately prevail on appeal, an adverse verdict in a substantial amount may damage the reputation of the Company, may require the Company to post an appeal bond in an amount which deprives the Company of cash, and require additional expenditures for the cost of appeal. The outcome of litigation is unpredictable, and an adverse final verdict could exceed the Company’s ability to pay. Because Web.com’s historical financial information is not representative of its future results, investors and analysts will have difficulty analyzing Web.com’s future earnings potential. Because the Company has grown through acquisition and its past operating results reflect the costs of integrating these acquisitions, as well as revenues from operations which have now been sold, historical results are not representative of future expected operating results. The Company has recognized very sizeable charges and expenditures in the past for impairment charges, restructuring costs and network enhancements. Because these items are not necessarily recurring, it is more difficult for investors to predict future results. Web.com has a limited operating history and its business model is still evolving, which makes it difficult to evaluate its prospects. Web.com’s limited operating history makes evaluating its business operations and prospects difficult. Web.com has changed from being primarily a seller of personal computers and related accessories to being primarily a provider of web hosting and web services to consumers and small and medium-sized businesses. Because some of its services are new, the market for them is uncertain. As a result, the revenues and income potential of its business, as well as the potential benefits of its acquisitions, may be difficult to evaluate. Quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate, which could cause Web.com’s stock price to be volatile. Past operating results have fluctuated significantly on a quarterly and an annual basis. Quarterly and annual operating results may continue to fluctuate due to a wide variety of factors. Because of these fluctuations, comparing operating results from period to period is not necessarily meaningful, and it would not be meaningful to rely upon such comparisons as an indicator of future performance. Factors that may cause its operating results to fluctuate include, but are not limited to the following: • Demand for and market acceptance of the Company’s services and products; • Introduction of new services or enhancements by Web.com or its competitors; • Costs of implementing new network security features, CRM systems, and billing modules; • Technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or its hosting operations specifically; • Customer retention; • Increased competition and consolidation within the web hosting and applications hosting markets; • Changes in its pricing policies and the pricing policies of its competitors; • Gains or losses of key strategic partner relationships; • Impairment charges; • Restructuring charges; • Merger and integration costs; • Litigation expenses; • Insurance expenses; and • Marketing expenses. Web.com cannot provide any assurances that it will succeed in its plans to increase the size of its customer base, the amount of services it offers, or its revenues during the next fiscal year and beyond. In addition, relatively large portions of its expenses are fixed 9 Table of Contents in the short term, and therefore its results of operations are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues. Also, if it cannot continue using third-party products in its service offerings, its service development costs could increase significantly. Web.com operates in a new and evolving market with uncertain prospects for growth and may not be able to generate and sustain growth in its customer base. Web.com operates in a new and evolving market with uncertain prospects for growth and may not be able to achieve and sustain growth in its subscriber base, maintain its average revenue per user or subscriber acquisition costs. The market for web hosting and applications-hosting services for small and medium-sized businesses, and the consumer market, have only recently begun to develop and are evolving rapidly. The market for Web.com’s services may not develop further, customers may not widely adopt its services, and significant numbers of businesses or organizations may not use, or may discontinue the use of, the Internet for commerce and communication. If this market fails to develop further or develops more slowly than expected, or if Web.com’s services do not achieve broader market acceptance, Web.com will not be able to retain and grow its customer base. In addition, Web.com must be able to differentiate itself from its competition through its service offerings and brand recognition. These activities may be more expensive than Web.com anticipates, and Web.com may not succeed in differentiating itself from its competitors, achieving market acceptance of its services, or selling additional services to its existing customer base. Because Web.com’s target markets are volatile, the Company may face a loss of customers or a high level of non-collectible accounts. The Company intends to continue to concentrate on serving the small and medium-sized business market. This market contains many businesses that may not be successful, and consequently present a substantially greater risk for non-collectible accounts receivable and for non-renewal. Moreover, a significant portion of this target market is highly sensitive to price, and may be lost to a competitor with a lower pricing structure. Because few businesses in this target market employ trained technologists, they tend to generate a high number of customer service and technical support calls. The expense of responding to these calls is considerable, and the call volume is likely to increase in direct proportion to revenue, potentially limiting the scalability of the business. Additionally, if the customer becomes dissatisfied with the Company’s response to such calls, cancellation, non-payment, or non-renewal becomes more likely. Web.com’s strategy for minimizing the negative aspects of its target market includes: • Capitalizing on infrastructure efficiencies to become a profitable provider at the lowest sustainable price; • Automating customer care and technical support to reduce the cost per call, and to minimize the time spent by Company personnel; • Intensive training and supervision of customer care and technical support personnel to maximize customer satisfaction; and, • Increasing the number and breadth of services to differentiate the Company from competition. The Company can give no assurance, however, that any of these measures will be successful, and the Company’s failure to manage these risks could decrease revenues and increase losses. Web.com could incur liabilities in the future relating to its discontinued PC Systems business, which could cause additional operating losses. Web.com could incur liabilities relating to its discontinued PC Systems business and from the sale of the PC Systems business to GTG PC (“Gores”). According to the terms of the agreement with Gores, Web.com retained liabilities relating to the operation of the PC systems business prior to the closing of the transaction. Web.com also agreed to indemnify Gores and its affiliates for any breach of its representations and warranties contained in the agreement for a period of two years, or for the applicable statute of limitations for matters related to taxes. Its indemnification obligation is capped at $10.0 million. Except for claims for fraud or injunctive relief, this indemnity is the exclusive remedy for any breach of Web.com’s representations, warranties, and covenants contained in the agreement with Gores. Accordingly, Web.com could be required in the future to make payments to Gores and its affiliates in accordance with the agreement, which could adversely affect its future results of operations and cash flows. Web.com believes it is unlikely that it will have any obligation to indemnify Gores because the applicable statute of limitations has passed for most applicable matters. If Web.com were obligated to indemnify Gores, such obligation could adversely affect its future results of operations and cash flows. Because Web.com faces intense competition, it may not be able to operate profitably in its markets. The web hosting and applications hosting markets are highly competitive, which could hinder Web.com’s ability to successfully market its products and services. The Company may not have the resources, expertise, or other competitive factors to compete successfully in the future. Because there are few substantial barriers to entry, the Company expects that it will face additional competition from existing competitors and new market entrants in the future. Many of Web.com’s current and potential competitors 10 Table of Contents have greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry and greater resources. As a result, these competitors may be able to: • Develop and expand their network infrastructures and service offerings more rapidly; • Adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements more quickly; • Devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their services; and, • Adopt more aggressive pricing policies than the Company can develop. Current and potential competitors in the market include web hosting service providers, applications hosting providers, Internet service providers, telecommunications companies, large information technology firms, and computer hardware suppliers. These competitors may operate in one or more of these areas and include companies such as Yahoo!, Hostopia, Affinity Internet, Website Pros, and EarthLink. Impairment of Web.com’s intellectual property rights could negatively affect its business or could allow competitors to minimize any advantage that Web.com’s proprietary technology may give it. Although the Company has a number of patents that it believes should preclude competitors from practicing certain technologies, the Company currently has no patented technology that necessarily would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the web hosting market generally. It is the Company’s practice to enter into agreements with all employees and with some of its customers and suppliers to prohibit or restrict the disclosure of proprietary information. Nevertheless, the Company cannot be sure that these contractual arrangements or the other steps taken by the Company to protect its proprietary rights will prove sufficient to prevent illegal use of its proprietary rights or to deter independent, third-party development of similar proprietary assets. In addition, the Company may find the cost of enforcing its patent and other intellectual property rights to be high and the cost of prosecuting patent infringement cases could negatively affect the Company’s attempts to become profitable. Effective copyright, trademark, trade secret, and patent protection may not be available in every country in which the Company’s products and services are offered. Web.com sometimes is, and in the future may be, involved in legal disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of its intellectual property rights or those of a third party. Intellectual property litigation is typically extremely costly and can be disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. In addition, any adverse decisions could subject it to significant liabilities, require it to seek licenses from others, prevent it from using, licensing or selling certain of its products and services, or cause severe disruptions to operations or the markets in which it competes which could decrease profitability. Periodically, the Company is made aware of claims, or potential claims, that technology it used in its discontinued operations may have infringed on intellectual property rights held by others. The Company has accrued a liability and charged operations for the estimated costs of settlement or adjudication of several asserted and unasserted claims for alleged infringement relating to its discontinued operations prior to the balance sheet date. Resolution of these claims could be costly and decrease profitability. If Web.com is unable to attract and retain key personnel, it may not be able to compete effectively in its market. The future success of Web.com will depend, in part, on its ability to attract and retain key management, technical, and sales and marketing personnel. The Company attempts to enhance its management and technical expertise by recruiting qualified individuals who possess desired skills and experience in certain targeted areas. The Company experiences strong competition for such personnel in the web hosting industry. The Company’s inability to retain employees and attract and retain sufficient additional employees, information technology, engineering, and technical support resources could adversely affect its ability to remain competitive in its markets. The Company has and may continue to face the loss of key personnel, which could limit the ability of the Company to develop and market its products and services. Web.com depends on its reseller sales channel to market and sell many of its services. Web.com does not control its resellers, and if it fails to develop or maintain good relations with resellers, it may not achieve the growth in customers and revenues that it expects. An element of the strategy for the Company’s growth is to further develop the use of third parties that resell or recommend its services. Many of these resellers are web development or web consulting companies that also sell Web.com’s web hosting services, but that generally do not have established customer bases to which they can market these services. The Company is not currently dependent on any one reseller to generate a significant level of business, but it has benefited and continues to significantly benefit from business generated by the reseller channel. Although Web.com attempts to provide its resellers with incentives such as price discounts on its services that the resellers seek to resell at a profit, the failure of its services to be commercially accepted in some markets, whether as a result of a reseller’s performance or otherwise, could cause its current resellers to discontinue their relationships 11 Table of Contents with the Company. The Company also is developing relationships with larger distribution partners, and although the percentage of the Company’s current revenues generated by any of these relationships is currently small, if the Company’s strategy is successful, future revenue growth will be dependent on the success and maintenance of these relationships. Web.com is vulnerable to system failures, which could harm its reputation, cause its customers to seek reimbursement for services paid for and not received, and cause its customers to seek another provider for services. The Company must be able to operate the systems that manage its network around the clock without interruption. Its operations will depend upon its ability to protect its network infrastructure, equipment, and customer files against damage from human error, fire, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. The Company’s networks are currently subject to various points of failure. For example, a problem with one of its routers (devices that move information from one computer network to another) or switches could cause an interruption in the services the Company provides to a portion of its customers. In the past, the Company has experienced periodic interruptions in service. The Company has also experienced, and in the future it may continue to experience, delays or interruptions in service as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, current and former employees, or others. Any future interruptions could: • Cause customers or end users to seek damages for losses incurred; • Require the Company to replace existing equipment or add redundant facilities; • Damage the Company’s reputation for reliable service; • Cause existing customers to cancel their contracts; or • Make it more difficult for the Company to attract new customers. Web.com’s data centers are maintained by third parties. Substantially all of the network services and computer servers utilized by Web.com in its provision of services to customers are housed in data centers owned by other service providers. In particular, a significant number of Web.com’s servers are housed in the data center in Atlanta, Georgia that Web.com sold to Peer 1 Networks on August 31, 2005. Web.com obtains Internet connectivity for those servers, and for the customers who rely on those servers, in part through direct arrangements with network service providers and in part indirectly through Peer 1 Networks. Web.com also utilizes other third-party data centers, including those at other Peer 1 and Level 3 locations. In the future, Web.com may house other servers and hardware items in facilities owned or operated by other service providers. A disruption in the ability of one of these service providers to provide service to Web.com could cause a disruption in service to Web.com’s customers. A service provider could be disrupted in its operations through a number of contingencies, including unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional actions, electrical disruptions, and other extreme conditions. Although Web.com believes it has taken adequate steps to protect itself through its contractual arrangements with its service providers, Web.com cannot eliminate the risk of a disruption in service resulting from the accidental or intentional disruption in service by a service provider. Any significant disruption could cause significant harm to Web.com, including a significant loss of customers. In addition, a service provider could raise its prices or otherwise change its terms and conditions in a way that adversely affects the Company’s ability to support its customers or financial performance. Data centers and communications networks are vulnerable to security breaches that could cause disruptions in service, liability to third parties, or loss of customers. A significant barrier to electronic commerce and communications is the need for secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Some of the Company’s services rely on security technology licensed from third parties that provides the encryption and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of confidential information. Despite the design and implementation of a variety of network security measures by the Company, unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional actions and other disruptions could occur. In addition, inappropriate use of the network by third parties could also potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, such as credit card and bank account numbers stored in the Company’s computer systems. These security problems could result in the Company’s liability and could also cause the loss of existing customers and potential customers. Although the Company continues to implement industry-standard security measures, third parties may be able to overcome any measures that it implements. The costs required to eliminate computer viruses and alleviate other security problems could be prohibitively expensive and the efforts to address such problems could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service to customers, and harm the Company’s reputation and growth. Concerns over the security of Internet transactions and the privacy of users may also inhibit the growth of the Internet, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. 12 Table of Contents Disruption of Web.com’s services caused by unknown software or hardware defects could harm its business and reputation. The Company’s service offerings depend on complex software and hardware, including proprietary software tools and software licensed from third parties. Complex software and hardware may contain defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released. The Company may not discover software or hardware defects that affect its new or current services or enhancements until after they are deployed. Although Web.com has not experienced any material software or hardware defects to date, it is possible that defects may exist or occur in the future. These defects could cause service interruptions, which could damage its reputation or increase its service costs, cause it to lose revenue, delay market acceptance or divert its development resources. Providing services to customers with critical websites and web services could potentially expose Web.com to lawsuits for customers’ lost profits or other damages. Because the Company’s web hosting and applications hosting services are critical to many of its customers’ businesses, any significant interruption in those services could result in lost profits or other indirect or consequential damages to its customers as well as negative publicity and additional expenditures for it to correct the problem. Although the standard terms and conditions of the Company’s customer contracts disclaim liability for any such damages, a customer could still bring a lawsuit against it claiming lost profits or other consequential damages as the result of a service interruption or other website or application problems that the customer may ascribe to it. A court might not enforce any limitations on Web.com’s liability, and the outcome of any lawsuit would depend on the specific facts of the case and legal and policy considerations even if the Company believes it would have meritorious defenses to any such claims. In such cases, it could be liable for substantial damage awards. Such damage awards might exceed its liability insurance by unknown but significant amounts, which would seriously harm its business. Web.com could face liability for information distributed through its network. The law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or distributed through their networks is currently unsettled. Online services companies could be subject to claims under both United States and foreign law for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, violation of securities laws or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials distributed through their networks. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose such liability upon other entities are currently pending against other companies. In addition, organizations and individuals have sent unsolicited commercial eMails from servers hosted by service providers to massive numbers of people, typically to advertise products or services. This practice, known as “spamming,” can lead to complaints against service providers that enable such activities, particularly where recipients view the materials received as offensive. The Company may, in the future, receive letters from recipients of information transmitted by its customers objecting to such transmission. Although the Company prohibits its customers by contract from spamming, it cannot provide assurances that its customers will not engage in this practice, which could subject it to claims for damages. In addition, the Company may become subject to proposed legislation that would impose liability for or prohibit the transmission over the Internet of some types of information. Other countries may also enact legislation or take action that could impose liability on the Company or cause it not to be able to operate in those countries. The imposition upon the Company and other online services of potential liability for information carried on or distributed through its systems could require it to implement measures to reduce its exposure to this liability, which may require it to expend substantial resources, or to discontinue service offerings. The increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals also could affect the rate of growth of Internet use. Web.com’s business operates in an uncertain legal environment where future government regulation and lawsuits could restrict Web.com’s business or cause unexpected losses. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, laws and regulations with respect to the Internet may be adopted at federal, state, and local levels. Potential laws might cover issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, characteristics, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, information security and the convergence of traditional telecommunications services with Internet communications. The Company cannot fully predict the nature of future legislation and the manner in which government authorities may interpret and enforce such legislation. As a result, Web.com and its customers could be subject to potential liability under future legislation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The adoption of any such laws or regulations might decrease the growth of the Internet which in turn could decrease the demand for the Company’s services, or increase the cost of doing business. In addition, applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyright and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is uncertain. These laws generally pre-date the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not consider or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Web.com’s stock price may be volatile which could cause an investment in its common stock to decrease significantly. The market price of Web.com’s common stock has experienced significant volatility. The price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The following are examples of factors or developments that would likely cause the Company’s stock price to continue to be volatile: 13 Table of Contents • Variations in operating results and analyst earnings estimates; • The volatility of stock in the sectors within which it conducts business; • Announcements by Web.com or its competitors regarding introduction of new services; • General changes in economic conditions; • Changes in the volume of trading in its common stock; and • The Company’s inability to reduce the rate of account cancellations, or to increase the rate of account additions, or both. During the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2006 the high and low closing price for Web.com common stock on NASDAQ was $6.45 and $3.63, respectively. Web.com could face liability and expense in connection with its acquisition of WebSource Media and related litigation. On May 19, 2006, Web.com acquired WebSource Media which was merged into a wholly owned subsidiary of Web.com. On June 12, 2006, the Federal Trade Commission filed a complaint under seal in federal court in Texas alleging that WebSource Media, together with its former owners and other defendants, engaged in unfair and deceptive trade practices in connection with the marketing and sale of WebSource Media’s products. All WebSource Media telemarketing activities and sales to new customers were halted on or about June 13, 2006. On June 21, 2006 the federal court entered an order that froze the assets of WebSource Media and appointed a Receiver over WebSource Media. Pursuant to that order, Web.com was appointed as an agent of the Receiver to perform certain services with respect to WebSource Media. Web.com is not a party to the FTC litigation, however there can be no assurance that the FTC will not include Web.com at a future date. On June 21, 2006, Web.com sued the former owners of WebSource Media in federal court in Georgia, claiming fraud and breach of contract in connection with the WebSource Media acquisition and seeking to rescind the acquisition and recover damages from the defendants. Subsequently certain of the former principals of WebSource Media sued Web.com in state court in Texas seeking payment of earn-out compensation under the merger agreement. Web.com could face liability and expense in connection with these matters. Web.com cannot determine at this time what liability, if any, WebSource Media may have as a result of the FTC litigation. WebSource Media may also face liability to third parties in connection with the acts and practices alleged by the FTC in that litigation. Even if WebSource Media is ultimately determined to have no liability for the acts and practices alleged by the FTC, we expect that there will be little or no value after the Receiver returns control of the business to the Company. WebSource Media was engaged in LEC billing, a practice Web.com had limited experience with. There could be liability associated with these billing practices outside of what is currently known. Web.com may incur expense and experience inconvenience and distraction in connection with its involvement in the matter through its role as the agent of the Receiver and as the owner of WebSource Media. In addition, although Web.com has sued the former owners of WebSource Media and is seeking to recover damages from those defendants, there can be no guarantee that Web.com will prevail in that litigation or, if it prevails, that the defendants will have sufficient resources to pay Web.com’s damages. Substantial future sales of shares by shareholders could negatively affect Web.com’s stock price. A number of groups of investors hold substantial numbers of Web.com’s shares, including current employees, the former shareholders of acquired companies, and hedge funds reported to have investment styles that lead to short-term holdings. Substantial sales by these holders may adversely affect Web.com’s stock price. Web.com could lose its ability to process credit card transactions A substantial portion of Web.com’s revenues are collected by credit card payments and Web.com requires a valid credit card to be on file for nearly all of its retail customers. Credit card fraud occurs when an Internet user attempts to open an account at Web.com using an invalid credit card. Although Web.com has controls in place intended to reduce or mitigate the impact of credit card fraud, Web.com cannot prevent all credit card fraud. Significant amounts of credit card fraud may introduce error into Web.com’s reported revenues. In addition, when Web.com uncovers subscriber accounts that were created with invalid credit cards, Web.com routinely cancels those accounts. Such cancellations can result in charge-backs to the owner of the credit card and excessive charge-backs and other negative experience resulting from credit card fraud could lead credit card companies to deny Web.com the ability to process credit card transactions or could result in Web.com paying higher fees to credit card companies. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission on its periodic reports that remain unresolved. 