ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the common stock of the Company is speculative in nature and is subject to certain risks inherent in the business of the Company and the Bank. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company and the Bank are described below. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment in the Company's common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face in our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In such an event, our common stock could decline in price. References to "we," "us," and "our" in this "Risk Factors" section refer to the Company and its subsidiaries, including the Bank, unless otherwise specified or unless the context otherwise requires. 38 Risks Relating to the Company and the Bank Since our business is primarily concentrated in the Southwest Missouri area, including the Springfield metropolitan area and Branson, a downturn in the Springfield or Branson economies may adversely affect our business. Our lending and deposit gathering activities have been historically concentrated primarily in the Springfield and Branson, Missouri areas. Our success depends on the general economic condition of Springfield and Branson and their surrounding areas. Although we believe the economy in these areas has been favorable, we do not know whether these conditions will continue. Our greatest concentration of loans and deposits is in the Greater Springfield area. With a population of approximately 420,000, the Greater Springfield area is the third largest metropolitan area in Missouri. Another large concentration of loans contiguous to Springfield is in the Branson area. The region is a vacation and entertainment center, attracting tourists to its lakes, theme parks, resorts, country music and novelty shows and other recreational facilities. The Branson area experienced rapid growth in the early 1990's, with stable to slightly negative growth trends occurring in the late 1990’s and into the early 2000’s. Branson is currently experiencing growth again as a result of a large retail, hotel, convention center project which has been constructed in Branson's historic downtown. This project has created hundreds of new jobs in the area. In addition, several large national retailers have opened new stores in Branson. At December 31, 2008, approximately 12% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans in the two county region that includes the Branson area. Adverse changes in the regional and general economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosure, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for the Bank's products and services, and decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our relatively high concentration of commercial and residential construction, commercial real estate, multi-family and other commercial loans. Our commercial and residential construction, commercial real estate, multi-family and other commercial loans accounted for approximately 77.1% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties. At December 31, 2008, we had $164.7 million of loans secured by apartments, $159.8 million of loans secured by healthcare facilities, $121.9 million of loans secured by retail-related projects, $119.6 million of loans secured by motels, $110.5 million of loans secured by residential subdivisions, $89.7 million of loans secured by condominiums and $139.6 million of loans secured by business assets or stock investments, which are particularly sensitive to certain risks including the following: · large loan balances owed by a single borrower; · payments that are dependent on the successful operation of the project; and · loans that are more directly impacted by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy generally. The risks associated with construction lending include the borrower's inability to complete the construction process on time and within budget, the sale of the project within projected absorption periods, the economic risks associated with real estate collateral, and the potential of a rising interest rate environment. These loans may include financing the development and/or construction of residential subdivisions. This activity may involve financing land purchase, infrastructure development (i.e. roads, utilities, etc.), as well as construction of residences or multi-family dwellings for subsequent sale by the developer/builder. Because the sale of developed properties is critical to the success of developer business, loan repayment may be especially subject to the volatility of real estate market values. Management has established underwriting and monitoring criteria to help minimize the inherent risks of commercial real estate construction lending. However, there is no guaranty that these controls and procedures will avoid all losses on this type of lending. 39 Commercial and multi-family real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. Other commercial loans are typically made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower's business or investment. These loans may therefore be more adversely affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy generally. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortized over the loan period, but have balloon payments due at maturity. A borrower's ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or completing a timely sale of the underlying property. We plan to continue to originate commercial real estate and construction loans based on economic and market conditions. In the current economic situation, we do not anticipate that there will be significant demand for these types of loans in 2009. Because of the increased risks related to these types of loans, we may determine it necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses. Increased provisions for loan losses would adversely impact our operating results. See "Item 1. Business-The Company-Lending Activities-Commercial Real Estate and Construction Lending," "-Other Commercial Lending," "-Residential Real Estate Lending" and "-Allowance for Losses on Loans and Foreclosed Assets" and "Item 7. Management's Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Non-performing Assets -- Subsequent Events Regarding Potential Problem Loans" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A slowdown in the residential or commercial real estate markets may have a negative impact on our earnings and liquidity position. The overall credit quality of our construction loan portfolio is impacted by trends in real estate values. We continually monitor changes in key regional and national economic factors because changes in these factors can impact our residential and commercial construction loan portfolio and the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Across the United States over the past year, the residential real estate market began to experience significant adverse trends, including accelerated price depreciation and rising delinquency and default rates, and weaknesses are beginning to be seen in the commercial real estate market as well. The conditions in the residential real estate market have led to significant increases in loan delinquencies and credit losses as well as higher provisioning for loan losses which in turn have had a negative effect on earnings for many banks across the country. Likewise, we have also experienced loan delinquencies in our construction loan portfolio. The current slowdown in both the residential and the commercial real estate markets could continue to negatively impact real estate values and the ability of our borrowers to liquidate properties. Despite reduced sales prices, the lack of liquidity in the real estate market and tightening of credit standards within the banking industry may continue to diminish all sales, further reducing our borrowers’ cash flows and weakening their ability to repay their debt obligations to us. As a result, we may experience a further negative material impact on our earnings and liquidity positions. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in 40 interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss allowances for growing portfolios is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Negative developments beginning in the latter half of 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, together with other factors, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued into 2009. In addition, as a consequence of the recession that the United States now finds itself in, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. As a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. This increased government action may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. We do not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Our operations depend upon our continued ability to access brokered deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Due to the high level of competition for deposits in our market, we utilize a sizable amount of certificates of deposit obtained through deposit brokers and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines to help fund our asset base. Brokered deposits are marketed through national brokerage firms that solicit funds from their customers for deposit in banks, including our bank. Brokered deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank advances may generally be more sensitive to changes in interest rates and volatility in the capital markets than retail deposits attracted through our branch network, and our reliance on these sources of funds increases the sensitivity of our 41 portfolio to these external factors. At December 31, 2008, we had $974.5 million in brokered deposits and $120.5 million in Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Bank regulators can restrict our access to these sources of funds in certain circumstances. For example, if the Bank's regulatory capital ratios declined below the "well capitalized" status, banking regulators would require the Bank to obtain their approval prior to obtaining or renewing brokered deposits. The regulators might not approve our acceptance of brokered deposits in amounts that we desire or at all. In addition, the availability of brokered deposits and the rates paid on these brokered deposits may be volatile as the balance of the supply of and the demand for brokered deposits changes. Market credit and liquidity concerns may also impact the availability and cost of brokered deposits. Similarly, Federal Home Loan Bank advances are only available to borrowers that meet certain conditions. If the Bank were to cease meeting these conditions, our access to Federal Home Loan Bank advances could be significantly reduced or eliminated. We rely on these sources of funds because we believe that generating funds through brokered deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank advances in many instances decreases our cost of funds, relative to the cost of generating and retaining retail deposits through our branch network. If our access to brokered deposits or Federal Home Loan Bank advances were reduced or eliminated for whatever reason, the resulting decrease in our net interest income or limitation on our ability to fund additional loans would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain Federal Home Loan Banks, including Des Moines, have experienced lower earnings from time to time and paid out lower dividends to its members. Future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to its member banks, as well as require additional capital contributions by its member banks. Should this occur, Great Southern's short term liquidity needs could be negatively impacted. Should Great Southern be restricted from using Federal Home Loan Bank advances due to weakness in the system or with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines, Great Southern may be forced to find alternative funding sources. These alternative funding sources may include the utilization of existing lines of credit with third party banks or the Federal Reserve Bank along with seeking other lines of credit, borrowing under repurchase agreement lines, increasing deposit rates to attract additional funds, accessing additional brokered deposits, or selling certain investment securities categorized as available-for-sale in order to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. At December 31, 2008, the Bank owned $8.3 million of Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines stock, which paid an annualized dividend approximating 3.00% for the fourth quarter of 2008. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines may eliminate or reduce dividend payments at any time in the future in order for it to maintain or restore its retained earnings. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our geographic market and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors (including certain national banks that have a significant presence in Great Southern's market area) may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller and newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than us in order to obtain a larger share of the market. As we have grown, we have become increasingly dependent on outside funding sources, including funds borrowed from the Federal Home Loan Bank and brokered deposits, where we face nationwide competition. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. We also experience competition from a variety of institutions outside of the Company's market area. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. 42 Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate, including the various capital adequacy guidelines we are required to meet. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation, examination and supervision. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have, or may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. We cannot predict what restrictions may be imposed upon us with future legislation. See "Item 1.-The Company -Government Supervision and Regulation" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company and the Bank are required to meet certain regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements imposed by the FRB, the FDIC and the Missouri Division of Finance. If the Company or the Bank fails to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and could compromise the status of the Company as a financial holding company. See "Item 1 -The Company -Government Supervision and Regulation" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for descriptions of the capital guidelines applicable to the Company and the Bank. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support the growth of our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may elect to raise additional capital for other reasons. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities or otherwise elect to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, which could dilute your ownership interest in the Company. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or on terms acceptable to us, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address these difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) authorizes the United States Department of the Treasury, hereafter the Treasury Department, to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies in a troubled asset relief program ("TARP"). The purpose of the TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury Department has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Under the Capital Purchase Program, the Treasury Department has purchased preferred equity securities from participating institutions including $58.0 million of our Series A Preferred Stock (the "Series A Preferred Stock"). EESA also increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") deposit insurance on most accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, the Treasury Department, the FDIC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. 43 These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The Treasury Department also recently announced its Financial Stability Plan, to attack the current credit crisis, and its Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, which seeks to help up to nine million families restructure or refinance their mortgages to avoid foreclosure. In addition, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system, improve the flow of credit and foster an economic recovery. The regulatory and legislative initiatives described above may not have their desired effects, however. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital, if needed or desired, and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. We generally seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period. As such, Great Southern has adopted asset and liability management strategies to attempt to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources, including interest rate swaps, so that it may reasonably maintain its net interest income and net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, the level and shape of the interest rate yield curve, maintaining excess liquidity levels, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence the ability to maintain a neutral position. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining a neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may be adversely impacted. Our exposure to operational risks may adversely affect the Company. Similar to other financial institutions, the Company is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, the risk that sensitive customer or Company data is compromised, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors. If any of these risks occur, it could result in material adverse consequences for the Company. 44 We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. As a service to our clients, we currently offer an Internet PC banking product. Use of this service involves the transmission of confidential information over public networks. We cannot be sure that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not result in a compromise or breach in the commercially available encryption and authentication technology that we use to protect our clients' transaction data. If we were to experience such a breach or compromise, we could suffer losses and our operations could be adversely affected. Our accounting policies and methods impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Application of these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. The Company's accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company's management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in the Company reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" describes the Company's significant accounting policies. These accounting policies are critical to presenting the Company's financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, from time to time may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. Our internal controls may be ineffective. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. As a result, we may incur increased costs to maintain and improve our controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 45 Risks Relating to our Common Stock Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock; and the Series A Preferred Stock places no limitations on the amount of indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Great Southern Bancorp is an entity separate and distinct from its principal subsidiary, Great Southern Bank, and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from that subsidiary. Accordingly, Great Southern Bancorp is and will be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and its common stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Great Southern Bancorp, Great Southern Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock. See Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. Also, Great Southern Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. This includes claims under the liquidation account maintained for the benefit of certain eligible deposit account holders of the Bank established in connection with the Bank’s conversion from the mutual to the stock form of ownership. We are also subject to certain contractual restrictions that could prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends or making liquidation payments on its common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock. If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities or if certain defaults relating to those debt securities occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding $30.9 million aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated debt securities issued in connection with the sale of trust preferred securities by certain of our subsidiaries that are statutory business trusts. We have also guaranteed those trust preferred securities. There are currently two separate series of these junior subordinated debt securities outstanding, each series having been issued under a separate indenture and with a separate guarantee. Each of these indentures, together with the related guarantee, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to, any of our capital stock (including the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock) at any time when (i) there shall have occurred and be continuing an event of default under the indenture or any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse of time or both would constitute an event of default under the indenture; or (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under the related guarantee; or (iii) we have deferred payment of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities outstanding under that indenture. In that regard, we are entitled, at our option but subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities of each series from time to time for up to five years. Events of default under each indenture generally consist of our failure to pay interest on the junior subordinated debt securities outstanding under that indenture under certain circumstances, our failure to pay any principal of or premium on such junior subordinated debt securities when due, our failure to comply with certain covenants under the indenture, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation relating to us or Great Southern Bank. As a result of these provisions, if we were to elect to defer payments of interest on any series of junior subordinated debt securities, or if any of the other events described in clause (i) or (ii) of the first paragraph of this risk factor were to occur, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock, from redeeming, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring any of the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock, and from making any payments to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock in the event of our liquidation, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock. Moreover, without notice to or consent from the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock, we may issue additional series of junior subordinated debt securities in the future with terms similar to those of our existing junior subordinated debt securities or enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock. 46 The prices of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; · developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; · dispositions, acquisitions and financings; · actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by existing stockholders and our directors and executive officers; · fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; · regulatory developments; and · developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Our common stock also has a low average daily trading volume relative to many other stocks, which may limit an investor’s ability to quickly accumulate or divest themselves of large blocks of our stock. This can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, and supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors. Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, because we are a bank holding company, purchasers of 10% or more of our common stock may be required to obtain approvals under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, or the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (and in certain cases such approvals may be required at a lesser percentage of ownership). Specifically, under regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve, (a) any other bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve to acquire or retain 5% or more of our common stock and (b) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve to acquire or retain 10% or more of our common stock. 47 These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Until and unless we are in arrears on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and certain other matters and except as may be required by Maryland law. If, however, dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the total number of positions on the Great Southern Bancorp Board of Directors will automatically increase by two and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, acting as a class with any other parity securities having similar voting rights, will have the right to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid in full all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $2.9 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $5.2 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 5, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than the Series A Preferred Stock or trust preferred securities. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Great Southern Bancorp. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the 10-year warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The 909,091 shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 6.4% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2008 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 48 ITEM 