ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the common stock of the Company is speculative in nature and is subject to certain risks inherent in the business of the Company and the Bank. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company and the Bank are described below. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment in the Company’s common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face in our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In such an event, our common stock could decline in value. References to “we,” “us,” and “our” in this “Risk Factors” section refer to the Company and its subsidiaries, including the Bank, unless otherwise specified or unless the context otherwise requires. Risks Relating to the Company and the Bank Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009. While economic growth has resumed recently, the rate of this growth has been slow and unemployment remains at very high levels. Many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including construction loans and commercial real estate loans. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital and borrow in the debt markets. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and capital and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies have been and are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. 49 Adverse developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation and regulations in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Overall, during the past few years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business. Until there is a sustained improvement in conditions, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Since our business is primarily concentrated in Missouri, Iowa and Kansas, a significant downturn in these state or local economies, particularly in Springfield, St. Louis or Branson, may adversely affect our business. Our lending and deposit gathering activities historically have been concentrated primarily in the Springfield and Branson, Missouri areas. Our success depends heavily on the general economic condition of Springfield and Branson and their surrounding areas. Although we believe the economy in these areas has been favorable relative to other areas, we do not know whether these conditions will continue. Our greatest concentration of loans and deposits is in the Greater Springfield area. With a population of approximately 420,000, the Greater Springfield area is the third largest metropolitan area in Missouri. Another large concentration of loans contiguous to Springfield is in the Branson area. The region is a vacation and entertainment center, attracting tourists to its lakes, theme parks, resorts, country music and novelty shows and other recreational facilities. The Branson area experienced rapid growth in the early 1990s, with stable to slightly negative growth trends occurring in the late 1990s and into the early 2000s. Branson experienced growth again in the late 2000s as a result of a large retail, hotel, and convention center project which has been constructed in Branson’s historic downtown. In addition, several large national retailers have opened new stores in Branson. In 2010 and 2011, Branson experienced some negative growth trends with fewer visitors and the closing of some motels and shows. At December 31, 2011, approximately 9% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans to borrowers in or secured by properties in the two-county region that includes the Branson area. In addition to the concentrations in the southwest Missouri area, we also have a concentration of loans to borrowers in or secured by properties in the St. Louis, Missouri metropolitan area. At December 31, 2011, approximately 20% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans apartments, condominiums, residential and commercial land developments, industrial revenue bonds and other types of commercial properties in the St. Louis, Missouri metropolitan area. With the FDIC-assisted transactions that were completed in 2009, we now have additional concentrations of loans in Western and Central Iowa and in Eastern Kansas. The FDIC-assisted transaction completed in 2011 added to our concentrations in Missouri, particularly in St. Louis. The loans acquired in the FDIC-assisted transactions are subject to loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. Adverse changes in regional and general economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosures, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease demand for our products and services, and decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our relatively high concentration of commercial and residential construction, commercial real estate, multi-family and other commercial loans. Our commercial and residential construction, commercial real estate, multi-family and other commercial loans accounted for approximately 65.8% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties. At December 31, 2011, we had $248.7 million of loans secured by apartments, $143.3 million of loans secured by motels, $122.1 million of loans secured by healthcare facilities, $110.0 million of loans secured by retail-related projects, and $100.2 million of loans secured by office/warehouse facilities, which are particularly sensitive to certain risks, including the following: · large loan balances owed by a single borrower; · payments that are dependent on the successful operation of the project; and · loans that are more directly impacted by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy generally. The risks associated with construction lending include the borrower’s inability to complete the construction process on time and within budget, the sale of the project within projected absorption periods, the economic risks associated with real estate collateral, and the potential of a rising interest rate environment. These loans may include financing the development and/or construction of residential subdivisions. This activity may involve financing land purchases, infrastructure development (e.g., roads, utilities, etc.), as well as construction of residences or multi-family dwellings for subsequent sale by the developer/builder. Because the sale of developed properties is critical to the success of the developer’s business, loan repayment may be especially subject to the volatility of real estate market values. Management has established underwriting and monitoring criteria to help minimize the inherent risks of commercial real estate construction lending. However, there is no guarantee that these controls and procedures will reduce losses on this type of lending. Commercial and multi-family real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the 50 property securing the loan. Other commercial loans are typically made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower’s business or investment. These loans may therefore be more adversely affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy generally. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortized over the loan period, but have balloon payments due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or complete a timely sale of the underlying property. We plan to continue to originate commercial real estate and construction loans based on economic and market conditions. In the current economic situation, we do not anticipate that there will be significant demand for these types of loans in the near term. Because of the increased risks related to these types of loans, we may determine it necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses. Increased provisions for loan losses would adversely impact our operating results. See “Item 1. Business-The Company-Lending Activities-Commercial Real Estate and Construction Lending,” “-Other Commercial Lending,” “-Residential Real Estate Lending” and “-Allowance for Losses on Loans and Foreclosed Assets” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Non-performing Assets” in this Report. A slowdown in the residential or commercial real estate markets may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity position. The overall credit quality of our construction loan portfolio is impacted by trends in real estate values. We continually monitor changes in key regional and national economic factors because changes in these factors can impact our residential and commercial construction loan portfolio and the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Across the United States over the past few years, the residential real estate market has experienced significant adverse trends, including accelerated price depreciation and rising delinquency and default rates, and weaknesses have arisen in the commercial real estate market as well. The conditions in the residential real estate market have led to significant increases in loan delinquencies and credit losses as well as higher provisioning for loan losses which in turn have had a negative effect on earnings for many banks across the country. Likewise, we have also experienced loan delinquencies in our construction loan portfolio. The current slowdown in both the residential and the commercial real estate markets could continue to negatively impact real estate values and the ability of our borrowers to liquidate properties. Despite reduced sales prices, the lack of liquidity in the real estate market and tightening of credit standards within the banking industry may continue to diminish all sales, further reducing our borrowers’ cash flows and weakening their ability to repay their debt obligations to us. As a result, we may experience a further material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flows of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe reflects a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss allowances for growing portfolios is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 51 We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, the fair values of our financial assets and liabilities and the average duration of our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. We generally seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period. As such, we have adopted asset and liability management strategies to attempt to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources, including interest rate derivatives, so that it may reasonably maintain its net interest income and net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, the level and shape of the interest rate yield curve, maintaining excess liquidity levels, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence the ability to maintain a neutral position. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining a neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may be adversely impacted. The value of the securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become increasingly volatile in recent years. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. Our operations may depend upon our continued ability to access brokered deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Due to the high level of competition for deposits in our markets, we have from time to time utilized a sizable amount of certificates of deposit obtained through deposit brokers and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines to help fund our asset base. Brokered deposits are marketed through national brokerage firms that solicit funds from their customers for deposit in banks, including our bank. Brokered deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank advances may generally be more sensitive to changes in interest rates and volatility in the capital markets than retail deposits attracted through our branch network, and our reliance on these sources of funds increases the sensitivity of our portfolio to these external factors. Our brokered deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank advances totaled $48.3 and $184.4 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $144.5 million and $153.5 million at December 31, 2010. Although brokered deposits have decreased substantially since December 31, 2008 and compared to previous years, we expect to continue to reduce our reliance on brokered deposits. However, we do expect to continue to utilize brokered deposits from time to time as a supplemental funding source. In addition to these brokered deposit totals at December 31, 2011 and 2010, were Great Southern Bank customer deposits totaling $216.3 million and $218.8 million, respectively, that were part of the CDARS program which allows bank customers to maintain balances in an insured manner that would otherwise exceed the FDIC deposit insurance limit. The FDIC considers these customer accounts to be brokered deposits due to the fees paid in the CDARS program. Bank regulators can restrict our access to these sources of funds in certain circumstances. For example, if the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios declined below the “well capitalized” status, banking regulators would require the Bank to obtain their approval prior to obtaining or renewing brokered deposits. The regulators might not approve our acceptance of brokered deposits in amounts that we desire or at all. In addition, the availability of brokered deposits and the rates paid on these brokered deposits may be volatile as the balance of the supply of and the demand for brokered deposits changes. Market credit and liquidity concerns may also impact the availability and cost of brokered deposits. Similarly, Federal Home Loan Bank advances are only available to borrowers that meet certain conditions. If Great Southern were to cease meeting these conditions, our access to Federal Home Loan Bank advances could be significantly reduced or eliminated. 52 Certain Federal Home Loan Banks, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines, have experienced lower earnings from time to time and paid out lower dividends to their members. Future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to its member banks, as well as require additional capital contributions by its member banks. Should this occur, our short term liquidity needs could be negatively impacted. Should Great Southern be restricted from using Federal Home Loan Bank advances due to weakness in the system or with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines, Great Southern may be forced to find alternative funding sources. These alternative funding sources may include the utilization of existing lines of credit with third party banks or the Federal Reserve Bank along with seeking other lines of credit, borrowing under repurchase agreement lines, increasing deposit rates to attract additional funds, accessing additional brokered deposits, or selling loans or investment securities in order to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. At December 31, 2011, the Bank owned $12.1 million of Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines stock, which declared and paid an annualized dividend approximating 3.00% during the fourth quarter of 2011. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines may eliminate or reduce dividend payments at any time in the future in order for it to maintain or restore its retained earnings. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could significantly increase our non-interest expense. FDIC insurance premiums increased significantly in 2009 and we may pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. Recent bank failures have substantially depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the fund's ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC also implemented a special assessment equal to five basis points of each insured depository institution's assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $1.7 million in the second quarter of 2009 for this special assessment. In November 2009, the FDIC amended its assessment regulations to require insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly regular risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2010, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012, on December 30, 2009. We prepaid $13.2 million, which will be expensed in the normal course of business throughout this three-year period. The FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLGP, has expired, but guarantees made by the FDIC on certain debt under the TLGP remain in effect through December 31, 2012. To the extent that assessments under the TLGP are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses of the FDIC arising from the TLGP, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could adversely affect us. We pursue a strategy of supplementing internal growth by acquiring other financial institutions that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, however, including the following: · We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks or businesses we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our earnings and financial condition may be adversely affected; · Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices our management considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future in one or more markets; · The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity in order to make the transaction economically feasible. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful; · Great Southern Bank entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC as part of the TeamBank, N.A., Vantus Bank and Sun Security Bank transactions. These loss sharing agreements require that Great Southern Bank follow certain servicing procedures as specified in the agreement. A failure to follow these procedures or any other breach of the agreement by Great Southern Bank could result in the loss of FDIC reimbursement of losses on covered loans and other real estate owned, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations; · To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; and · We completed two significant acquisitions in 2009, completed one significant acquisition in 2011 and have opened additional banking offices in recent years that enhanced our rate of growth. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future. 53 Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support the growth of our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may elect to raise additional capital for other reasons. Should we be required by regulatory authorities or otherwise elect to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, which could dilute your ownership interest in the Company. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed or desired, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or desired, or if the terms will be acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or desired, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our geographic market and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services that we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors (including certain nationwide banks that have a significant presence in our market area) may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller and newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than us in order to obtain a larger share of the market. As we have grown, we have become dependent from time to time on outside funding sources, including funds borrowed from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines and brokered deposits, where we face nationwide competition. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on insured depositary institutions and their holding companies. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. We also experience competition from a variety of institutions outside of our market areas. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate, including the various capital adequacy guidelines we are required to meet. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation, examination and supervision. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have, or may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. For example, a federal rule which took effect on July 1, 2010 prohibits a financial institution from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs, on ATM and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. This rule has adversely affected, and is likely to continue to adversely affect, the results of our operations by reducing the amount of our non-interest income. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with the various regulations to which we are subject. Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. We cannot predict what restrictions may be imposed upon us with future legislation. See “Item 1.-The Company -Government Supervision and Regulation” in this Report. The Company and the Bank are required to meet certain regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements imposed by the FRB, the FDIC and the Missouri Division of Finance. If the Company or the Bank fails to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and could compromise the status of the Company as a financial holding company. See “Item 1.-The Company -Government Supervision and Regulation” in this Report. Financial reform legislation will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. This law significantly changes the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. 54 Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations is a requirement for new capital regulations. These regulations must be at least as stringent as, and may call for higher levels of capital than, current regulations. Generally, trust preferred securities are no longer be eligible as Tier 1 capital, but the Company’s currently outstanding trust preferred securities were grandfathered and will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, one year after the date of its enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and practices”. Additional provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are described in this report under “Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Effect of Federal Laws and Regulations-Recent Legislation Impacting the Financial Services Industry.” Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company. However, compliance with this law and its implementing regulations will result in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our exposure to operational risks may adversely affect us. Similar to other financial institutions, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, the risk that sensitive customer or Company data is compromised, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors. If any of these risks occur, it could result in material adverse consequences for us. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. As a service to our clients, we currently offer an Internet PC banking product and a smartphone application for iPhone and Android users. Use of these services involves the transmission of confidential information over public networks. We cannot be sure that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not result in a compromise or breach in the commercially available encryption and authentication technology that we use to protect our clients' transaction data. If we were to experience such a breach or compromise, we could suffer losses and our operations could be adversely affected. Our accounting policies and methods impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Application of these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Report. These accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, from time to time may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. 55 Our controls and procedures may be ineffective. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. As a result, we may incur increased costs to maintain and improve our controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; · developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; · dispositions, acquisitions and financings; · actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by existing stockholders and our directors and executive officers; · fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; · regulatory developments; and · other developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Our common stock also has a low average daily trading volume relative to many other stocks, which may limit an investor’s ability to quickly accumulate or divest themselves of large blocks of our stock. This can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. There may be future sales of additional common stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Our board of directors is authorized to cause us to issue additional common stock, as well as classes or series of preferred stock, generally without any action on the part of the stockholders. In addition, the board has the power, generally without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market value of the common stock could be adversely affected. Our SBLF Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share. The dividends declared on the SBLF Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. The SBLF Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Great Southern Bancorp. 56 The dividend rate on the SBLF Preferred Stock will fluctuate initially from 1% to 5% based on our level of “Qualified Small Business Lending,” or “QSBL,” as compared to our “baseline” level. The cost of the capital we received from the SBLF Preferred Stock will increase significantly if the level of our “QSBL” as of September 30, 2013 does not represent an increase from our “baseline” level. This cost also will increase significantly if we have not redeemed the SBLF Preferred Stock before the fourth anniversary of the SBLF transaction. The per annum dividend rate on the SBLF Preferred Stock can fluctuate on a quarterly basis during the first ten quarters during which the SBLF Preferred Stock is outstanding, based upon changes in the amount of “QSBL” by the Bank from a “baseline” level ($158.3 million, which represents the average of the Bank’s quarter-end QSBL for the four quarters ended June 30, 2010, as adjusted for the Sun Security Bank FDIC-assisted acquisition). The dividend rate for the initial dividend period (which ended on September 30, 2011) was 5%, the dividend rate for the second dividend period (which ended on December 31, 2011) was 2.57% and the dividend rate for the third dividend period (which ends on March 31, 2012) is 1.00%. For the fourth dividend period through the tenth dividend period, the dividend rate may be adjusted to between one percent and five percent, to reflect the amount of percentage change in the Bank’s level of QSBL from the baseline level to the level as of the end of the second quarter preceding the dividend period in question. For the eleventh dividend period to the fourth anniversary of the SBLF transaction, the dividend rate will be fixed at between 1% and 5%, based upon the percentage increase in QSBL from the baseline level to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period (i.e., as of September 30, 2013); however, if there is no increase in QSBL from the baseline level to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period (or if QSBL has decreased during that time period), the dividend rate will be fixed at 7.00%. From and after the fourth anniversary of the SBLF transaction, the dividend rate will be fixed at 9.00%, regardless of the level of QSBL. Depending on our financial condition at the time, any such increases in the dividend rate could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on and repurchasing our common stock. Great Southern Bancorp, Inc. is an entity separate and distinct from its principal subsidiary, Great Southern Bank, and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from that subsidiary. Accordingly, Great Southern Bancorp, Inc. is and will be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Great Southern Bancorp, Inc., Great Southern Bancorp, Inc. may not be able to pay dividends on its common or preferred stock. Also, Great Southern Bancorp, Inc.’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. This includes claims under the liquidation account maintained for the benefit of certain eligible deposit account holders of the Bank established in connection with the Bank’s conversion from the mutual to the stock form of ownership. Under the terms of the SBLF Preferred Stock and the securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury in connection with the SBLF transaction our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock is subject to a limit requiring us generally not to reduce our Tier 1 capital from the level on the SBLF closing date by more than 10%. In addition, if we fail to pay an SBLF dividend, there are further restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock. As described below in the next risk factor, the terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit us from paying dividends on or repurchasing our common stock at any time when we have elected to defer the payment of interest on such debt securities or certain events of default under the terms of those debt securities have occurred and are continuing. These restrictions could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors could reduce, suspend or eliminate our common stock cash dividend in the future. If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities or if certain defaults relating to those debt securities occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding $30.9 million aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated debt securities issued in connection with the sale of trust preferred securities by certain of our subsidiaries that are statutory business trusts. We have also guaranteed those trust preferred securities. There are currently two separate series of these junior subordinated debt securities outstanding, each series having been issued under a separate indenture and with a separate guarantee. Each of these indentures, together with the related guarantee, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to, any of our capital stock (including the SBLF Preferred Stock and our common stock) at any time when (i) there shall have occurred and be continuing an event of default under the indenture or any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse of time or both would constitute an event of default under the indenture; or (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under the related guarantee; or (iii) we have deferred payment of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities outstanding under that indenture. In that regard, we are entitled, at our option but subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities of each series from time to time for up to five years. 57 Events of default under each indenture generally consist of our failure to pay interest on the junior subordinated debt securities outstanding under that indenture under certain circumstances, our failure to pay any principal of or premium on such junior subordinated debt securities when due, our failure to comply with certain covenants under the indenture, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation relating to us or Great Southern Bank. As a result of these provisions, if we were to elect to defer payments of interest on any series of junior subordinated debt securities, or if any of the other events described in clause (i) or (ii) of the first paragraph of this risk factor were to occur, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on the SBLF Preferred Stock and our common stock, from redeeming, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring any of the SBLF Preferred Stock or our common stock, and from making any payments to holders of the SBLF Preferred Stock or our common stock in the event of our liquidation, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Moreover, without notice to or consent from the holders of our common stock or the SBLF Preferred Stock, we may issue additional series of junior subordinated debt securities in the future with terms similar to those of our existing junior subordinated debt securities or enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock. Holders of the SBLF Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Until and unless we fail to pay full dividends on the SBLF Preferred Stock for six or more dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, and the aggregate liquidation preference amount of the then-outstanding shares of SBLF Preferred Stock is at least $25.0 million, the holders of the SBLF Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the SBLF Preferred Stock and except as may be required by law. If, however, dividends on the SBLF Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, and if the aggregate liquidation preference amount of the then-outstanding shares of SBLF Preferred Stock is at least $25.0 million, then the total number of positions on the Great Southern Bancorp Board of Directors will automatically increase by two and the holders of the SBLF Preferred Stock, acting as a single class, will have the right, but not the obligation, to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid full dividends for at least four consecutive dividend periods. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10.0% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. Anti-takeover provisions could adversely impact our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our board of directors, and supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors. Our charter also authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, because we are a bank holding company, purchasers of 10% or more of our common stock may be required to obtain approvals under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, or the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (and in certain cases such approvals may be required at a lesser percentage of ownership). Specifically, under regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve Board, (a) any other bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board to acquire or retain 5% or more of our common stock and (b) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board to acquire or retain 10% or more of our common stock. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. Three members of the Turner family may exert substantial influence over the Company through their board and management positions and their ownership of the Company’s stock. The Company’s Chairman of the Board, William V. Turner, and the Company’s Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph W. Turner, are father and son, respectively. Julie Turner Brown, a director of the Company, is the sister of Joseph Turner and the daughter of William Turner. These three Turner family members hold three of the Company’s eight Board positions. As of 58 December 31, 2011, they collectively beneficially owned approximately 2,134,599 shares of the Company’s common stock (excluding 115,550 shares underlying stock options exercisable as of or within 60 days after that date), representing approximately 15.8% of total shares outstanding, though they are subject to the voting limitation provision in our charter which precludes any person or group with beneficial ownership in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding from voting shares in excess of that threshold. Through their board and management positions and their ownership of the Company’s stock, these three members of the Turner family may exert substantial influence over the direction of the Company and the outcome of Board and stockholder votes. In addition to the Turner family members, we are aware of two other beneficial owners of more than five percent of the outstanding shares of our common stock, one of whom is a director of the Company. As of December 31, 2011, one of the Company’s directors, Earl A. Steinert, beneficially owned 938,000 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 7.0% of total shares outstanding. We are aware of one other beneficial owner of more than five percent of our common stock. We believe that this holder beneficially owns 1,307,540 shares, representing approximately 9.7% of total shares outstanding. The shares that can be voted by the Turner family members (1,347,986 shares, per the ten percent voting limitation in our charter), the shares beneficially owned by Mr. Steinert (938,000) and the shares beneficially owned by the other greater than five percent beneficial owner (1,307,540) total 3,593,526, representing approximately 26.7% of total shares outstanding. While they have no agreement to do so, to the extent they vote in the same manner, these stockholders may be able to exercise influence over the management and business affairs of our Company. For example, using their collective voting power, these stockholders may be able to affect the outcome of director elections or block significant transactions, such as a merger or acquisition, or any other matter that might otherwise be favored by other stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved staff comments that were received more than 180 days before December 31, 2011. 