Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to certain risks. In addition to the factors discussed below, please see the discussion under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” beginning on page 55. These risks and uncertainties, along with the other information in our Form 10-K, should be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. Unanticipated changes in interest rates and/or continuation of the inverted yield curve environment could reduceour profitability and affect the value of our assets. Our net interest income, which is our primary source of revenue, depends on the spread between the interest we earn on loans and investments and the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. For this reason, the level of our earnings is highly susceptible to changes in interest rates which generally impact our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities differently. While we actively manage this sensitivity to interest rate risk as a key part of our business strategy, unanticipated changes in interest rates and changes in the yield curve may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect the level of our mortgage loan originations, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of loans. In addition, further prolonging of the current inverted treasury yield curve environment may continue to pressure our net interest margin and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Weakening of the real estate markets in the Chicago and Milwaukee metropolitan areas could have a material adverse effect on us. With most of our real estate loans concentrated in suburban Chicago and suburban Milwaukee areas, a decline in local economic conditions or declining demand for real estate in these markets could adversely affect the value of the collateral securing our loans and may cause us to suffer loan losses, particularly if loans we originated at higher loan-to value ratios default. For example, recent weakness in housing prices and the slowdown in home purchase activity in our markets have made it more difficult to fully recover on some of our defaulted residential mortgage and home equity loans through the sale of the residential real estate collateral and have increased our cost associated with the sale of foreclosed real estate. A decline in local economic and market conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. In addition, the residential mortgage business, historically a strong part of our operations, is largely dependent on home sales activity. With the considerable slowdown of home purchases nationwide, the mortgage industry has slowed dramatically. Our mortgage loan origination volumes dropped 23% in 2006 to $1.6 billion, generally in line with the overall decline industry-wide. Until the housing market improves, we expect continued pressure on our one- to four-family loan origination volume and mortgage banking revenues. High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage and home equity portfolios expose us togreater risk of loss. Some of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity, which may lead to a higher incidence of default on these loans. Our product offerings include certain mortgage and home equity loans or lines of credit that allow qualifying 28 borrowers to obtain loans with combined loan-to-value ratios at origination of up to 100% of the value of the home securing the loan. At December 31, 2006, approximately $428.1 million, or 8%, of our $5.31 billion single-family residential mortgage loan portfolio, including equity lines of credit and home equity loans, had combined loan-to-value ratios in excess of 90% (based on total line available) and no private mortgage insurance. There was an additional approximately $40 million of undrawn amounts remaining available under high CLTV equity lines in our portfolio at December 31, 2006. During 2006, we experienced a higher loss rate on high CLTV loans than our residential portfolio as a whole, and we are likely to continue to experience a higher risk of loss on these loans that we elect to keep in portfolio, since our ability to recover against the collateral is more sensitive to declining property values than for loans with lower combined loan-to-value ratios. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. The financial services business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. The Chicago metropolitan market, in particular, is regarded as one of the most competitive banking markets in the country due to fragmented market share among many competing institutions which also tends to attract new entrants to the market. We compete with community banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, mortgage brokers, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other regional, super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of lesser geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. A key part of our strategy is to compete through concentrated marketing in our primary markets with local advertisements, broad product offerings, community support, personal contacts, and flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, but competition has made it more difficult for us to grow our customer base without adjusting our pricing. We have experienced increased competition from larger commercial banks which have refocused their marketing efforts on the retail banking customers. In addition, in recent years we have encountered many de novo banks in our market areas that tend to price their loans and deposits aggressively in order to attract customers. Price competition for loans and deposits causes us to earn less on our loans and pay more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Income from our real estate development business may continue to be adversely affected by housing marketconditions and other uncertainties. Historically, a significant source of our non-interest income for us has been income from our real estate development projects involving the acquisition and development of raw land into residential lots for sale to home builders. We often develop these projects in multiple phases over a period of years and our initial projections regarding the time to completion and development cost involved may prove to be inaccurate. For example, in our Springbank project in Plainfield, Illinois, delays in the approval process, weak housing market conditions and other factors outside our control, have extended the project timeline, increased our development costs and reduced our expected returns on investment over the life of the project. The weakness in new and existing home sales activity that we experienced in 2006, along with softening real estate prices, contributed to significantly lower income from real estate operations in 2006. Without improved housing market conditions, we are likely to continue to experience weaker income from real estate in 2007 and beyond. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our estimates of future losses inherent in our portfolio, and actual losses we incur could exceed these estimates. We maintain an allowance for loan losses we deem adequate to cover losses inherent in our portfolio from loans that may not be repaid in their entirety. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses on a quarterly basis, in addition to numerous quantitative factors we take into account, we also consider many qualitative factors, such as general business and economic conditions, general real 29 estate market trends and other matters which are by their nature more subjective and susceptible to change. In addition, our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on some of our commercial loans require us to assess our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors outside our control. Because of the degree of uncertainty in the assumptions we make and the factors we consider, the losses we actually incur may exceed our estimates and our allowance for loan losses may prove insufficient to absorb these losses. Breaches of our computer and network security may result in compromises of information which could have amaterial adverse effect on our business. We depend heavily in our daily operations on our automated information systems, networks and telecommunications systems which support the evaluation, acquisition, monitoring, collection and administration of our loan and deposit servicing portfolios, general accounting and other management controls. We also outsource some data and payment processing to third parties. While we have implemented extensive policies and procedures designed to limit the impact of system failures or disruptions as well as information security measures to safeguard these systems, technological difficulties or security breaches involving our systems or those of any of our vendors could compromise our ability to protect customer personal information and could interfere with our ability to accurately process and account for customer transactions, and this could potentially expose us to significant loss. In addition, a failure or interruption of these systems or a failure of data integrity could subject us to customer complaints, potential lawsuits or increased regulatory scrutiny and could damage our reputation, making it more difficult for us to compete successfully. Our ability to service our holding company debt and pay dividends to our shareholders is substantially dependent on dividends from the Bank, and these dividends are subject to regulatory limits. Since January 1, 2005, we increased debt at our holding company $135 million as a result of acquisitions and as part of our capital management strategy designed to increase shareholder returns. The Company is largely dependent on the receipt of dividends from the Bank in order to service this debt and the availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. In the event that the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, fund additional real estate development activities, complete stock buybacks, if any, or pay dividends on our common stock. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, its chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the authority to impose restrictions on our operations, to classify our assets which may affect the level of our allowance for loan losses, to limit our dividends or impose higher capital requirements on us, to limit acquisition activities we may propose and to impose penalties for noncompliance. In addition, we are likely to continue to incur significant operational costs related to compliance as the risks and burden of regulatory compliance have increased significantly in recent years. Regulatory changes, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to certain risks. We have acquired a number of other banking companies in recent years and we may pursue selective acquisitions of other financial institutions in the future. Acquisitions can present certain managerial and operational challenges. While we evaluate acquisition opportunities across a variety of parameters, including our assessment of the potential impact on our financial condition as well as our prospective financial performance, our results may suffer as a result of an acquisition if we are not 30 effective in integrating the acquired operations into our business and converting data processing systems to our platform as planned, or if we fail to achieve anticipated cost savings or revenue enhancements. In addition, we anticipate that future acquisitions, if any, will likely be valued at a premium to book value and at a premium to current market value, which may result in book value per share or tangible book value per share dilution and possible short-term earnings per share dilution for our shareholders depending on the transaction structure and pricing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Available Information Our internet address is www.mafbancorp.com. We make available through this address, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, proxy statement, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our Code of Ethics and other corporate governance information is also available on our website. 