Item 1A. Risk Factors Uncertain general economic conditions and any downturn in the markets we serve are expected to adversely affect our business and financial results. Substantially all of our products are incorporated into products for the digital consumer electronics, networking, mobile communications, automotive electronics and industrial markets. Historically, these markets have experienced cyclical depressed business conditions, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, a decline in general economic conditions, or due to adverse supply and demand conditions in such markets. Industry downturns have resulted in reduced demand and declining average selling prices for our products which adversely affected our business. Due to the continued uncertain economic conditions, our current or potential customers may delay or reduce purchases of our products which would adversely affect our revenues and harm our business and financial results. In addition, the continued uncertainty in the economy may negatively impact the spending patterns of businesses including our current and potential customers. There can be no assurance that the government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets in late 2008 and 2009 will restore confidence in the U.S. and global markets. We expect our business to be adversely impacted by any further downturn in the U.S. or global economies. In particular, while we currently expect our revenue for the quarter ending December 31, 2009 to increase from our revenue in the quarter ended September 30, 2009, our expected revenue in the December 2009 quarter will still be significantly below our quarterly revenue prior to the start of the recession in 2008. The uncertainty regarding the U.S. and global economies has also made it more difficult for us to forecast and manage our business. Although we are continuing actions to control our expenses and inventory levels, there can be no assurance that these actions will be sufficient to address the impact of any further economic slowdown and allow us to meet our operating objectives. Our sales depend on DRAM and SRAM products and reduced demand for these products or a decline in average selling prices could harm our business. In fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, approximately 86%, 88% and 86%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from the sale of DRAM and SRAM products, which are subject to unit volume fluctuations and declines in average selling prices that could harm our business. We experienced a sequential decline in revenue from $37.7 million in our December 2008 quarter to $31.3 million in our March 2009 quarter primarily as a result of a significant decrease in unit shipments of our SRAM products and a decline in the average selling prices for our DRAM products. We also experienced a sequential decline in revenue from $55.3 million in our September 2008 quarter to $37.7 million in our December 2008 quarter primarily as a result of a significant decrease in unit shipments of both our DRAM and SRAM products. We may not be able to offset any future price declines for our products by higher volumes or by higher prices on newer products. Historically, average 11 Table of Contents selling prices for semiconductor memory products have declined, and we expect that average selling prices for our products will decline in the future. Our ability to maintain or increase revenues will depend upon our ability to increase unit sales volume of existing products and introduce and sell new products that compensate for the anticipated declines in the average selling prices of our existing products. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers, our business will be harmed. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers from our current suppliers or any alternative sources in a timely manner, our business will be harmed. Our principal manufacturing relationships are with Nanya, Powerchip Semiconductor, SMIC, TSMC, IBM and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing. Each of our wafer foundries also supplies wafers to other semiconductor companies, including certain of our competitors or for their own account. Although we are allocated wafer capacity from our key suppliers, we may not be able to obtain such capacity in periods of tight supply. If any of our suppliers experience manufacturing failures or yield shortfalls, severe financial or operational difficulties, choose to prioritize capacity for other uses, or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us for any other reason, we may not be able to obtain enough wafers to meet the market demand for our products which would adversely affect our revenues. Once a product is in production at a particular foundry, it is time consuming and costly to have such product manufactured at a different foundry. In addition, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for existing or new products in a timely manner and we cannot be certain that other manufacturing sources would be able to deliver an adequate supply of wafers to us or at the same cost. Foundry capacity can be limited, and we may be required to enter into costly arrangements to secure foundry capacity. If we are not able to obtain additional foundry capacity as required, our relationships with our customers would be harmed and our future sales would be adversely impacted. In order to secure foundry capacity, we have entered into in the past, and may enter into in the future, various arrangements with suppliers, which could include: • option payments or other prepayments to foundries; • purchases of equity or debt securities in foundries; • joint ventures; • process development relationships with foundries; • contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended periods; • increased prices for wafers; and • nonrefundable deposits with, or loans to, foundries in exchange for capacity commitments. We may not be able to make any such arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on terms favorable to us. Once we make commitments to secure foundry capacity, we may incur significant financial penalties if we subsequently determine that we are not able to utilize all of that capacity. Such penalties may be substantial and could harm our financial results. Our operating results are expected to continue to fluctuate and may not meet our financial guidance or published analyst forecasts. This may cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. Our future quarterly and annual operating results are subject to fluctuations due to a wide variety of factors, including: • economic slowness and low end-user demand; • the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry; • declines in average selling prices of our products; 12 Table of Contents • oversupply of memory products in the market; • inventory write-downs for lower of cost or market or excess and obsolete; • excess inventory levels at our customers; • decreases in the demand for our products; • our ability to control or reduce our operating expenses; • increased expenses associated with new product introductions, masks or process changes; • the ability of customers to make payments to us; • shortages in foundry, assembly or test capacity; • disruption in the supply of wafers, assembly or test services; • changes in the pricing for wafers or assembly or test services; • changes in our product mix which could reduce our gross margins; • cancellation of existing orders or the failure to secure new orders; • a failure to introduce new products and to implement technologies on a timely basis; • market acceptance of ours and our customers’ products; • a failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields at our suppliers; • fluctuations in product quality resulting in rework, replacement, or loss due to damages; • a failure to deliver products to customers on a timely basis; • the timing of significant orders; • the outcome of any pending or future litigation; and • the commencement of any future litigation or antidumping proceedings. We have incurred significant losses in certain recent periods, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain or achieve profitability in the future. Though we profitable in the September 2009 quarter, we incurred a loss of $5.1 million in fiscal 2009, which included a $0.7 million charge for acquired in-process technology. Though we were profitable in each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2008, we incurred a loss of $17.8 million in fiscal 2008, which included charges for the impairment of goodwill of $25.3 million. There is no assurance that we will achieve or maintain profitability in future periods. Our ability to achieve profitability on a quarterly or fiscal year basis in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the need for future inventory write-downs, our ability to increase net sales, maintain or expand gross margins, introduce new products on a timely basis, secure sufficient wafer fabrication capacity and control operating expenses, including stock-based compensation. Adverse developments with respect to these or other factors could result in quarterly or annual operating losses in the future. Shifts in industry-wide capacity may cause our results to fluctuate. These shifts may occur quickly with little or no advance notice. Such shifts have historically resulted in significant inventory write-downs. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is subject to significant downturns resulting from excess capacity, overproduction, reduced demand or technological obsolescence. Shifts in industry-wide capacity from shortages to oversupply or from oversupply to shortages may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results. These shifts in industry conditions can occur quickly with little or no advance notice to us. Adverse changes in industry conditions are likely to result in a further decline in average selling prices and 13 Table of Contents the stated value of our inventory. In fiscal 2009, in fiscal 2008 and in fiscal 2007, we recorded inventory write-downs of $10.8 million, $11.3 million, and $10.3 million, respectively. The inventory write-downs related to valuing our inventory at the lower-of-cost-or-market, and adjusting our inventory valuation for certain excess and obsolete products. Differences in forecasted average selling prices used in calculating lower of cost or market adjustments can result in significant changes in the estimated net realizable value of inventory and accordingly the amount of write-down recorded. If the estimated market value of products in inventory at quarter-end is below the manufacturing cost of these products, we will recognize charges to write down the carrying value of our inventories to market value. In addition, we write down to zero dollars the carrying value of inventory on hand that has aged over one year to cover estimated excess and obsolete exposures, unless adjustments are made based on management’s judgments for newer products, end of life products, planned inventory increases or strategic customer supply. In making such judgments to write down inventory, management takes into account the product life cycles which can range from six to 30 months, the stage in the life cycle of the product, the impact of competitors’ announcements and product introductions on our products. Future additional inventory write-downs may occur due to lower of cost or market accounting, excess inventory or inventory obsolescence. We rely on third-party contractors to fabricate, assemble and test our products. Our business is highly dependent on the continued operations of such contractors and our failure to successfully manage our relationships with these contractors could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We rely on third-party contractors located in Asia to fabricate, assemble and test our products. Current and continued uncertain economic conditions and the continued uncertainty in the U.S. and global credit markets could materially impact the financial condition or operations of our third-party contractors such as our wafer foundries, test contractors and assembly contractors. Our business is highly dependent on the continued operations of such contractors. Any deterioration in the financial condition of our contractors or any disruption in the operations of our contactors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and materially adversely impact our business and results of operation. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on these third-party contractors, including: • financial viability of our contractors; • reduced control over product quality; • potential price increases; • reduced control over delivery schedules; • possible capacity shortages; • their inability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; • absence of long-term agreements; • limited warranties on products supplied to us; and • general risks related to conducting business internationally. If any of these risks are realized, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected until our subcontractor is able to remedy the problem or until we are able to secure an alternative subcontractor. Our transition to lead-free parts may result in excess inventory of products packaged using traditional methods. Customers are requiring that we offer our products in lead-free packages. Governmental regulations in certain countries and customers’ intention to produce products that are less harmful to the environment has resulted in a requirement from many of our customers to purchase integrated circuits that do not contain lead. We have 14 Table of Contents responded by offering our products in lead-free versions. While the lead-free versions of our products are expected to be more friendly to the environment, the ultimate impact is uncertain. The transition to lead-free products may produce changes in demand depending on the packaging method used, which may result in excess inventory of products packaged using traditional methods. This may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may encounter difficulties in effectively integrating newly acquired businesses. From time to time, we may acquire other companies or assets that we believe to be complementary to our business. In this regard, in April 2009, we announced the acquisition of Enable Semiconductor Corporation, a private Taiwan and Korea based company. Acquisitions may result in the use of our cash resources, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the possible impairment of goodwill, which could harm our profitability. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • higher than estimated acquisition expenses; • difficulties in successfully assimilating the operations, technologies and personnel of the acquired company; • difficulties in continuing to develop new technologies and deliver products to market on time; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks of entering markets in which we have no, or limited, direct prior experience; • the risk that the markets for acquired products do not develop as expected; and • the potential loss of key employees and customers as a result of the acquisition. There is no assurance that any of our recent or future acquisitions will contribute positively to our business or operating results. The loss of a significant customer or a reduction in orders from one or more large customers could adversely affect our operating results. As sales to our customers are executed pursuant to purchase orders and no purchasing contracts typically exist, our customers can cease doing business with us at any time. We may not be able to retain our key customers, such customers may cancel or reschedule orders, and in the event of canceled orders, such orders may not be replaced by other sales. In addition, sales to any particular customer may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and such fluctuating sales could harm our business and financial results. We have significant international sales and operations and risks related to our international activities could harm our operating results. In fiscal 2009, approximately 15% of our net sales was attributable to customers located in the U.S., 14% was attributable to customers located in Europe and 70% was attributable to customers located in Asia. In fiscal 2008, approximately 16% of our net sales was attributable to customers located in the U.S., 17% was attributable to customers located in Europe and 66% was attributable to customers located in Asia. In fiscal 2007, approximately 18% of our net sales was attributable to customers located in the U.S., 15% was attributable to customers located in Europe and 67% was attributable to customers located in Asia. We anticipate that sales to international sites will continue to represent a significant percentage of our net sales. Although our international sales are largely denominated in U.S. dollars, we do have sales transactions in New Taiwan dollars, in Hong Kong dollars and in Chinese renminbi. In addition, our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors are primarily located in Taiwan and China. A substantial majority of our employees are located outside of the U.S and the expenses for our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currency. As a result, a devaluation of the New Taiwan dollar or Chinese renminbi could substantially increase the cost of our operations in Taiwan or China. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including: • global economic conditions, particularly in Taiwan and China; • duties, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; • foreign currency fluctuations; • changes in trade policy and regulatory requirements; • transportation delays; • the burdens of complying with foreign laws; • imposition of foreign currency controls; • language barriers; • difficulties in hiring and retaining experienced engineers in countries such as China and Taiwan; • difficulties in collecting foreign accounts receivable; • political instability, including any changes in relations between China and Taiwan; • public health outbreaks such as SARS or avian flu; and • earthquakes and other natural disasters. Strong competition in the semiconductor memory market may harm our business. The semiconductor memory market is intensely competitive and has been characterized by an oversupply of product, price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and heightened foreign and domestic competition. Many of our competitors offer broader product lines and have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. We may not be able to compete successfully against any of these competitors. Our ability to compete successfully in the memory market depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including: • the pricing of our products; • the supply and cost of wafers; • product design, functionality, performance and reliability; • successful and timely product development; • the performance of our competitors and their pricing policies; • wafer manufacturing over or under capacity; • real or perceived imbalances in supply and demand for our products; • the rate at which OEM customers incorporate our products into their systems; • the success of our customers’ products and end-user demand; • access to advanced process technologies at competitive prices; • achievement of acceptable yields of functional die; • the capacity of our third-party contractors to assemble and test our products; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • the nature of our competitors; • our financial strength and the financial strength of our competitors; and • general economic conditions. 16 Table of Contents In addition, we are vulnerable to technology advances utilized by competitors to manufacture higher performance or lower cost products. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future as to any of these factors. Our failure to compete successfully in these or other areas could harm our business and financial results. Our revenues and business would be harmed if we are not able to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products and develop and implement new manufacturing technologies in a timely manner. Our research and development expenses could increase and our business could be harmed if the implementation of these new manufacturing technologies is unsuccessful. We operate in highly competitive, quickly changing markets which are characterized by rapid obsolescence of existing products. As a result, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that our customers choose to buy in significant quantities. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner or if our customers’ products do not achieve commercial success, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. The design and introduction of new products is challenging as such products typically incorporate more functions and operate at faster speeds than prior products. Increasing complexity generally requires smaller features on a chip. This makes developing new generations of products substantially more difficult than prior generations. The cost to develop products utilizing these new technologies is expensive and requires significant research and development spending and, as a result, our research and development expenses could increase in the future. Further, new products may not work properly in our customers’ applications. If we are unable to design, introduce, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, our business and financial results would be seriously harmed. Our products are complex and could contain defects, which could reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. We develop complex and evolving products. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in existing or new products. This could result in a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. The occurrence of defects could also cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, could divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, and could harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek and obtain damages from us for their losses. From time to time, we have been involved in disputes regarding product warranty issues. Although we seek to limit our liability, a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and could be costly to defend. Potential intellectual property claims and litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and could invalidate our proprietary rights. In the semiconductor industry, it is not unusual for companies to receive notices alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights. We have been, and from time-to-time expect to be, notified of claims that we may be infringing patents, maskwork rights or copyrights owned by third-parties. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents that we are alleged to be infringing. However, licenses may not be offered and the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license under a key patent or intellectual property right from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of the products utilizing the invention or to attempt to develop non-infringing products, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we may become involved in protracted litigation regarding the alleged infringement by us of third-party intellectual property rights or litigation to assert and protect our patents or other intellectual property rights. Any litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters could result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources, which could harm our business. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, which would negatively impact our ability to compete. We believe that the protection of our intellectual proprietary rights will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the U.S. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries, including countries in which we design and sell our products. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of our pending applications nor can we be certain that any issued patents would protect or benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged and declared invalid or unenforceable. We also cannot be certain that others will not develop our unpatented proprietary technology or develop competing technologies on their own. We had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and related difficulties in complying with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year (September 30), including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting was effective. Based on the material weakness regarding not having adequate management oversight or supervision over non-routine accounting functions and the judgment used in developing financial estimates for inventory reserves as described in Item 9A(T) of this Form 10-K, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of September 30, 2009. In addition, as described in Item 9A(T) of this Form 10-K, because of the fact that the remediation efforts related to such material weakness are still being implemented, our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective as of September 30, 2009. Our disclosure controls and procedures include components of our internal control over financial reporting. Due to our conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at September 30, 2009 and our conclusion that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at September 30, 2009, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, the calculation of share-based compensation expense requires us to use valuation methodologies (which were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options) and a number of assumptions, estimates, and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price, the expected dividend rate with respect to our common stock, and the option exercise behavior of our employees. Furthermore, there are no means, under applicable accounting principles, to compare and adjust our expense if and when we learn about additional information that may affect the estimates that we previously made, with the exception of changes in expected forfeitures of share-based awards. In the future, factors may arise that lead us to change our estimates and assumptions with respect to 18 Table of Contents future share-based compensation arrangements, resulting in variability in our share-based compensation expense over time. Changes in forecasted share-based compensation expense could impact our gross margin percentage, research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses. We depend on our ability to attract and retain our key technical and management personnel. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key technical and management personnel. Several of our important manufacturing and other subcontractor relationships are based on personal relationships between our senior executive officers and such parties. In particular, our Executive Chairman has long-term relationships with our key foundries. If we were to lose the services of any key executives, it may negatively impact the related business relationships since we have no long-term contractual agreements with such parties. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel, particularly experienced circuit designers and process engineers. The competition for such employees depends on general economic and industry conditions but such competition has been intense in prior periods of industry growth. We have no employment contracts or key person life insurance policies with or for any of our employees. The loss of the service of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. Our stock price is expected to continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and is expected to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • general conditions or cyclicality in the semiconductor industry or the end markets that we serve; • new or revised earnings estimates or guidance by us or industry analysts; • comments or recommendations issued by analysts who follow us, our competitors or the semiconductor industry; • aggregate valuations and movement of stocks in the broader semiconductor industry; • announcements of new products, strategic relationships or acquisitions by us or our competitors; • increases or decreases in available wafer capacity; • governmental regulations, trade laws and import duties; • announcements related to future or existing litigation involving us or any of our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • announcements regarding our share repurchase program and the timing and amount of shares we purchase under such program; • additions or departures of senior management; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected the market price of our common stock and may continue to do so in the future. Our foundries may experience lower than expected yields which could adversely affect our business. The manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Production yields and device reliability can be affected by a large number of factors. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, our outside foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields 19 Table of Contents and device reliability problems, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and changes in such foundry’s processing steps. There can be no assurance that our foundries will not experience lower than expected manufacturing yields or device reliability problems in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our short-term investments include auction rate securities and if auctions continue to fail for amounts we have invested, our investment will not be liquid. If the issuer is unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit rating deteriorates, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of our investment through an impairment charge to earnings. In February 2008, all of the auctions for our auction-rate securities failed as a result of negative conditions in the global credit markets. Each of these securities had been subject to auction processes for which there had been insufficient bidders on the scheduled rollover dates. The failure resulted in the interest rates on these investments resetting at the maximum rate allowed per security. Until the auctions are successful, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the notes are redeemed, the investments are not liquid. We currently believe these securities are not significantly impaired, primarily due to the government backing of the underlying securities. However, if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of these investments and record an impairment charge to earnings for the decline in the fair values. In November 2008, we elected to participate in the Auction Rate Securities Rights offering by the broker through which we purchased our $20.0 million in auction rate securities. These rights will entitle us to sell our auction rate securities to the broker for a price equal to par value plus accrued but unpaid dividends beginning in June 2010. In addition, UBS bank USA has established a no net cost credit line for us in an amount up to $13.4 million collateralized by our auction rate securities. We have used and may in the future use a significant amount of our cash resources to repurchase shares of our common stock and such repurchases present potential risks and disadvantages to us and our continuing stockholders. From September 2007 through September 2009, we repurchased shares of our common stock in the open market under Rule 10b-18 and pursuant to our tender offers. In particular, in fiscal 2009, we repurchased 2,050,340 shares of our common stock in the open market at an aggregate price of approximately $4.9 million. In addition, in fiscal 2008, we repurchased 10,203,282 shares for an aggregate price of $71.1 million which includes 10,000,000 shares we repurchased in January 2008 for an aggregate price of $70 million pursuant to a tender offer. At September 30, 2009, we had outstanding authorization from our Board to purchase up to an additional $4.9 million of our common stock from time to time. Although our Board of Directors has determined that these repurchase programs are in the best interests of our stockholders, these repurchases expose us to a number of risks including: • the use of a substantial portion of our cash reserves, which may reduce our ability to engage in significant cash acquisitions or to pursue other business opportunities that could create significant value to our stockholders; • the risk that we would not be able to replenish our cash reserves by raising debt or equity financing in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all; • the risk that these repurchases have reduced our “public float,” which is the number of our shares owned by non-affiliate stockholders and available for trading in the securities markets, and likely reduced the number of our stockholders, which may reduce the volume of trading in our shares and may result in lower stock prices and reduced liquidity in the trading of our shares; and • the risk that our stock price could decline and that we would be able to repurchase shares of our common stock at a lower price per share than the prices we pay in our repurchase programs. 20 Table of Contents Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations, including the operations of our foundries and other suppliers, could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in San Jose, California, and our other critical business operations and many of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. Losses and interruptions could also be caused by earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics such as the recent flu outbreak and other natural or manmade disasters. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Matters None. 