Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks we discuss below are those events, conditions and uncertainties that could have a meaningful adverse impact on our growth, asset quality, liquidity and net interest spread that could lower the price of our common stock. Growth, asset quality, liquidity and net interest spread are integral to our business, financial position and profitability. Growth is important for several reasons. Increasing our size could help us to lower our funding costs, retain and attract qualified personnel and compete more effectively. If we are unable to grow, our funding costs could increase, we could lose personnel and it could be harder for us to compete. We consider asset quality the most important aspect of our business. Asset quality statistics (delinquencies, non-performing assets and net credit losses) (i) gauge our success in collecting our receivables (ii) reflect the effectiveness of our underwriting standards, skills, policies and procedures and (iii) can indicate the direction and levels of future net charge-offs and non-performing assets. When asset quality weakens, revenue is reduced, provisions for credit losses increase and operating expenses increase because we would classify more receivables to non-accrual status (suspend recognizing income), we would incur more write-downs and we would incur more costs to collect and manage the additional non-performing accounts. Significantly weaker asset quality could also limit our ability to obtain needed capital and could cause our credit ratings to be 5 lowered. We use various strategies to manage credit risk. We discuss this in detail in the Finance Receivables and Asset Quality section of our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD & A"). Liquidity (money immediately available for us to borrow) and access to capital (debt and equity) are vital to our operations and growth. We cannot maintain or grow our finance receivables and we may not be able to repay debt if our access to capital is limited. We discuss this in detail in the Liquidity section of our MD & A. Our net interest spread (the net yield of finance receivables less the weighted average cost of debt) is the key component of our profitability. Our income is reduced when our net interest spread decreases. Our net interest spread is affected by changes in market interest rates. We discuss this in detail in the Market Interest Rate Risk and Sensitivity section of our MD & A. RISKS A slowdown in the economy could reverse our growth and cause our asset quality to deteriorate A recession or less severe economic slowdown would reduce demand for the equipment we finance. This would limit our ability to obtain new business and lower or possibly reverse our finance receivables growth. An economic slowdown would also weaken asset quality because significantly more of our customers would not be able to make their payments to us timely if at all and the value of the equipment securing our finance receivables would decline, possibly significantly. This would increase delinquencies, non-performing assets and net charge-offs. Therefore, poor economic conditions would weaken our financial position and profitability, and depending on the severity of the impact, could make it difficult for us to maintain our credit ratings and to obtain needed capital. Most finance companies face this risk, but its effects can be more pronounced on us because we only have one source of revenue and one line of business, commercial equipment financing. Our inability to collect our finance receivables would cause our asset quality to deteriorate It is critical for finance companies to collect all amounts owed from their customers. Asset quality weakens when customers fail to make their payments or pay late, or when the value of the equipment securing receivables declines. Therefore, finance companies must underwrite transactions properly and must be diligent in collecting past due accounts. Underwriting includes assessing the customer's creditworthiness, obtaining and assessing the value of collateral and ensuring transactions are documented properly. Equipment values can decline because of excess supply, reduced demand, limited availability of parts and regulatory changes (such as higher vehicle emissions standards). Our asset quality statistics, as discussed in the Finance Receivables and Asset Quality section of our MD & A, are at unexpectedly favorable low levels and therefore could worsen significantly. Our inability to obtain needed capital or maintain adequate liquidity would reverse our receivables growth Our ability to obtain new debt or equity or to renew or refinance credit facilities (see the Liquidity section of our MD & A for information about maturity and expiration dates) could be limited by (i) a significant deterioration in our asset quality (ii) a significant deterioration in our profitability (iii) reductions of our credit ratings (iv) the poor performance of other finance companies (v) economic conditions and (vi) the availability of funds in capital markets. Capital markets have been reluctant to provide capital to finance companies in the past because of these conditions. Rising short-term market interest rates have reduced and could continue to reduce our net interest spread Rising short-term market interest rates reduce our net interest spread (this occurred in fiscal 2006) because our floating rate debt (includes short-term debt) exceeds our floating rate finance receivables significantly (by $715.7 million at July 31, 2006). Our net interest spread would also decrease when the differences between long and short-term rates narrow (resulting in a "flattening yield curve") or when short-term rates exceed long-term rates (an "inverted yield curve"). The yield curve is currently inverted. Rising short-term interest rates could also cause an economic slowdown, and an inverted yield curve has been a precursor to economic downturns. Most finance companies face this risk, but its effect is more pronounced on us because of the significant difference between our floating rate debt and floating rate receivables. We face increased competition because of our small size and because of the relative ease of entry into our business Most of our competitors are significantly larger than we are giving them many competitive advantages. We compete with large national banks, manufacturer-owned finance companies (commonly called "captives") and other finance and leasing companies. One of our competitors, CIT, is about thirty times larger than we are. Larger competitors have greater resources, lower-cost funding sources and offer more products and services. This enables them to offer interest rates lower than ours and to finance larger customers. Larger competitors could lower the rates they offer to levels we may be unable to match. This would make it difficult for us to maintain or grow our finance receivables and it could reduce our net interest spread by forcing us to lower our rates. 6 It is relatively easy for a new competitor to enter our business. The biggest barrier to entering our business is obtaining capital. The increased availability of capital from the asset-backed securitization market, private equity and other sources has lessened this barrier. We may not be able to retain employees key to our operations We have 247 employees, and we are highly dependent on a small number of key operating personnel including our CEO. The loss of these key operating personnel (i) could impair our ability to maintain or grow our finance receivables and to maintain asset quality because they are familiar with our operating methods and are integral in our customer relationships, and (ii) could impair our ability to raise capital. Competition for qualified people in the finance industry is fierce and our larger competitors may offer higher salaries and better benefits. We also do not have employment contracts with key employees. Instead, we routinely award shares of restricted stock to them with extended vesting periods. Our growth and asset quality are highly dependent on conditions in the construction and road transportation industries Over 80% of our finance receivables are with customers in the construction and road transportation industries. Therefore, a slowdown or specific problems facing these industries would have similar or worse negative effects on us as a general economic slowdown. This limited focus of our business could also limit our ability to grow, could make it difficult for us to expand our business to other industries effectively and could cause us to be affected by poor economic conditions more severely. Lending to small, privately owned companies exposes us to increased credit risk Most of our customers are small to medium sized, privately owned businesses. They have significantly less resources than larger companies and therefore their operations and ability to pay us can more easily be affected by poor local economic conditions, general economic conditions, rising gasoline and interest costs, loss of key personnel and increased competition. Significantly higher prices and limited availability of gasoline could impact our customers severely and weaken our asset quality Most of the equipment we finance uses gasoline. Therefore, gasoline is a significant operating expense for our customers and its availability is critical to their operations. Higher than normal increases in the price of gasoline or a disruption in its supply could hurt our customers' operations and their ability to pay us, and could cause an economic slowdown. Our allowance for credit losses may be insufficient to cover future net charge-offs Our allowance for credit losses may be inadequate if our asset quality unexpectedly weakens significantly. This would cause us to record large provisions for credit losses. We discuss this in detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section of our MD & A. Our failure to comply with State and Federal lending and leasing regulations could result in write-offs and litigation against us Our business activities, including amounts we can charge customers, repossessing equipment, lien perfection and documentation, are subject to State and Federal regulations. Our failure to comply with these regulations or changes to these regulations could prevent us from collecting amounts owed from our customers, and could result in lawsuits, penalties and fines against us and restrictions on our ability to do business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 