Item 1A. Risk Factors The non-residential construction industry is cyclical, and we may experience prolonged depressed market conditions for our products and services. The non-residential construction industry is cyclical, and a downturn in the non-residential construction industry could cause a decline in the demand for our products. Our products are primarily used in domestic, non-residential construction, therefore our sales and earnings are strongly influenced by non-residential construction activity, which historically has been cyclical. Most recently, during the period from 2001 to 2005, the commercial sector of the non-residential construction market experienced a downward trend, and as a result our sales and earnings were negatively affected. Non-residential construction activity can decline because of many other factors we cannot control, such as: • a decline in general economic activity; • a decrease in government spending on construction projects; • an increase in raw material and overall construction costs; • interest rate increases, which make borrowings used to finance construction projects more expensive; and • changes in banking and tax laws, which may reduce incentives to begin construction projects. Demand for some of our products is seasonal, and we may experience significant variations in quarterly performance. Due to weather, the non-residential construction industry is seasonal in most of North America. As a result, we typically experience seasonal fluctuations in sales and profitability, with generally lower sales and profit in the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Demand for our products generally is higher in the spring and summer than in the winter and late fall. As a result, our first quarter net sales typically are the lowest of the year. Our net sales and operating income in the fourth quarter also generally are less than in the second and third quarters. Consequently, our working capital requirements tend to be higher in the second and third quarters and, accordingly, can adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow. Adverse weather, such as unusually prolonged periods of cold, rain, blizzards, hurricanes and other severe weather patterns, could delay or halt construction activity over wide regions of the country. For example, a severe winter, such as the winter of 2002-2003, could lead to reduced construction activity and thus magnify the seasonal decline in our revenues and earnings during the winter months. Sustained extreme adverse weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We currently have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had $324.6 million ($330.3 million as adjusted for the refinancing of the Senior Second Secured Notes discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements) of total indebtedness outstanding. Our substantial indebtedness could make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, after giving effect to the refinancing of the Senior Second Secured Notes, our debt service costs for the years ending December 31, 2008 and 2009 are expected to be $48.6 million and $343.5 million, respectively. Credit conditions in the United States have been reported to have deteriorated over the past year. We rely on credit being available at reasonable costs to operate our business. Although we have refinanced our Senior Second Secured Notes during the first quarter of 2008, we must either repay or refinance our Senior Subordinated Notes before their maturity in 2009. In addition, our substantial indebtedness could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other general purposes; 5 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness agreements, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Further, the terms of the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes may permit us to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If we incur any additional indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our debt instruments governing our revolving credit facility and our outstanding terms notes and senior subordinated notes impose significant operating restrictions on us. Our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes and senior subordinated notes, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • pay dividends and make distributions in respect of our capital stock; • enter into agreements that restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make distributions; • redeem or repurchase our capital stock; • make investments or other restricted payments; • issue or sell preferred stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition to the above restrictions, we are also required to comply with certain financial covenants under our new credit facilities. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and an adverse development affecting our business could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, alternative or additional sources of financing or reductions in expenditures. We may not be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative or additional financings on terms acceptable to us or at all. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in any of our existing or future financing agreements could result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a default could allow the creditors under our financing agreements to discontinue lending, to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, and to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. If our creditors require immediate repayments, we may not be able to repay them. We have a history of losses and may experience substantial losses in the future. We cannot assure you that our net operating loss carryforwards will result in any significant tax savings in future periods. Our business has experienced substantial net losses over the past several years and may continue to do so in the future. We reported net losses of $114.7 million in 2005, $18.0 million in 2006 and $6.7 million in 2007 and our stockholders’ deficit was $89.6 million as of December 31, 2007. Our results of operations will continue to be affected by events and conditions both within and beyond our control, including competition, economic, financial, business and other conditions. We cannot assure you that our operations will become or remain profitable in the future. As of December 31, 2007, we had deferred tax assets of $51.7 million related to net operating loss carryforwards. We had valuation allowances of $48.0 million for these net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2007, as estimated levels of taxable income are less than the amount needed to realize these assets. In addition, our use of net operating loss carryforwards may be limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Section 382 imposes limitations on a company’s ability to use net operating loss carryforwards if a company experiences a more-than-50-percent ownership change over a three-year testing period. As a result our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in future periods may be limited as provided in Section 382. 6 Table of Contents We expect to incur additional facility closing expenses in 2008. Facility closing and severance expenses were $1.8 million in 2007, due primarily to moving our manufacturing and distribution operation from a leased facility in Des Plaines, Illinois to a newly leased facility in Elk Grove, Illinois. The move is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2008. We estimate that we will incur expenses and expend cash of an additional $1.0 million in connection with the completion of the relocation. Our substantial stockholders’ deficit may require us to maintain additional working capital. As of December 31, 2007, we had a stockholders’ deficit of $89.6 million, resulting primarily from our history of net losses. Our stockholders’ deficit may make it more difficult for us to obtain credit from suppliers and other parties in the future. In addition, some of our suppliers may impose less advantageous terms on timing of payment. As a result, we may require additional working capital, which may negatively affect our cash flow and liquidity. Increased costs of raw materials and energy resources may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Significant variations in the costs, quality and availability of raw materials and energy may negatively affect our results of operations. Steel, in its various forms, is our principal raw material, constituting approximately 22.5% of our product cost of sales in 2007. Any decrease in our volume of steel purchases could affect our ability to secure volume purchase discounts that we have obtained in the past. In addition, an overall increase in energy costs, including the cost of natural gas and petroleum products, could adversely impact our overall operating costs in the form of higher raw material, utilities, and freight costs. We typically do not enter into forward contracts to hedge commodity price risks that we face. Even though our costs may increase, our customers may not accept corresponding price increases for our products, or the prices for our products may decline. Our ability to achieve acceptable margins is principally dependent on managing our cost structure and managing changes in raw materials prices, which fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control. If the prices of our products decline, or if our raw material costs increase, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and profitability. Our rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition. The market value of any piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. In that event, we could recognize a loss on the sale of that equipment. Losses on sales of used equipment (or related impairment charges) could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including: • the market price for new equipment of a like kind; • wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age; • the time of year that it is sold (generally prices are higher during the peak construction season); • demand for used equipment; and • general economic conditions. Losing certain key customers could materially affect our revenues, and continuing consolidation of our customer base could reduce our profit margins. Our top ten customers accounted for 25% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 and our largest customer accounted for approximately 6%, 7%, and 5% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and could also adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow from operating activities. Further, increasing consolidation of our customers may negatively affect our earnings. We believe there is an increasing trend among our distributor customers to consolidate into larger entities. As our customers increase in size and gain market power, they may be able to exert pressure on us to reduce prices or increase price competition by dealing more readily with our competitors. If the consolidation of our customers does result in increased price competition, our sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. Our business may be subject to significant environmental investigation, remediation and compliance costs. Our business and our facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the use, generation, handling, storage, transport and disposal of these materials. Many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. Permits are required for operation of our businesses 7 Table of Contents (particularly air emission permits), and these permits are subject to renewal, modification and, in certain circumstances, revocation. Pursuant to certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of land may be liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of hazardous materials at the property. These laws can often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. Persons who arrange (as defined under these statutes) for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials also may be liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of these substances at the disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them. We may be liable for costs under certain environmental laws even if we did not cause the condition causing such liability. Changes in environmental laws or unexpected investigations could adversely affect our business. Since we own and operate a number of facilities where industrial activities have been historically conducted and because we arrange for the disposal of hazardous materials at many disposal sites, we may incur costs for investigation and remediation, as well as capital costs associated with compliance with these laws. More stringent environmental laws as well as more vigorous enforcement policies or discovery of previously unknown conditions requiring remediation could impose material costs and liabilities on us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Mexican operations and foreign sourcing relationships are subject to local business risks which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We operate a manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico and have increased our purchasing of raw materials and finished goods from China and other foreign sources. The success of our operations in Mexico and our foreign sourcing initiatives, including in China, depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including our inexperience with operating abroad, general economic conditions, restrictions on the repatriation of assets, compliance with foreign laws and standards and political risks. Our Mexican operations and foreign outsourcing relationships are affected directly and indirectly by global regulatory, economic and political conditions, including: • new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions; • export duties or import quotas; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs or other trade barriers; • potential difficulties in staffing and labor disputes; • managing and obtaining support and distribution for local operations; • increased costs of, and availability of, transportation or shipping; • credit risk and financial conditions of local customers and distributors; • potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; • potential imposition of restrictions on investments; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • capital controls; • foreign exchange restrictions and fluctuations; and • local political, economic and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where we do business. Some or all of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our operations or upon our financial condition and results of operations in the future. Acquisitions that we may undertake involve a number of inherent risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits. We may complete acquisitions that disrupt our business. If we make acquisitions, 8 Table of Contents we could do any of the following, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations: • incur substantial additional debt, which may reduce funds available for operations and future opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and competition; • assume contingent liabilities; or • take substantial charges to write off goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, acquisitions can involve other risks, such as: • difficulty in integrating the acquired operations and products into our existing business; • costs that are greater than anticipated or cost savings that are less than anticipated; • diversion of management time and attention; and • adverse effects on existing business relationships with our suppliers and customers and the suppliers and customers of the acquired business. The high level of competition in our industry could materially adversely affect our business. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. Many of the markets in which we operate are served by numerous competitors, ranging from multi-regional companies to small, independent businesses with a limited number of locations. We generally compete on the basis of, among other things: price, quality, breadth of product offering, distribution capabilities (including quick delivery times), customer service and expertise. However, the uniformity of products among our competitors results in substantial pressure on pricing and profit margins. As a result of these pricing pressures, we may experience reductions in the profit margins on our sales, or we may be unable to pass any cost increases on to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase the current market share of our products or compete successfully in the future. If competitive pressures were to cause us to reduce our prices, our operating margins may be adversely impacted. If we were to maintain our prices in the face of price reductions by our competitors, our net sales could decline. We may encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are effectively controlled by a major stockholder, whose interests may conflict with yours. Pursuant to the terms of a voting agreement, Odyssey Investment Partners Fund, LP (“Odyssey”) and its affiliates control the voting of 53.5% of our common stock and, therefore, have the power to control or substantially affect the outcome of matters on which stockholders are entitled to vote. These include the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and possible mergers, corporate control contests and significant corporate transactions. Through their control of our board of directors, Odyssey and its affiliates also have the ability to appoint or replace our senior management, issue additional shares of our common stock or repurchase common stock, declare dividends or take other actions. Our controlling stockholder may make decisions regarding our company and business that are opposed to your interests or with which you disagree. To the extent the interests of our public stockholders are harmed by the actions of our controlling stockholder, the price of our common stock may be harmed. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the listing requirements for the Nasdaq Global Market and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Pursuant to the terms of a voting agreement, certain members of our management have granted Odyssey the right to vote their shares of our common stock. As a result, affiliates of Odyssey control a majority of our common stock and we are a “controlled company” under Nasdaq Rule 4350(c). Accordingly, if we so elect, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) nominations for our board of directors, or recommendations to our board for such nominations, be made by our independent directors or a nominations committee that consists entirely of independent directors and (3) compensation of our executive officers be determined, or recommended to the board for determination, by our independent directors or by a compensation committee that consists entirely of independent directors. We have availed ourselves of these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of 9 Table of Contents independent directors nor does our nominating and corporate governance committee or compensation committee consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq Global Market’s corporate governance requirements. Labor disputes with our employees could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. We depend on our highly trained employees, and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees would adversely affect our business. We could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. As of December 31, 2007, approximately one-third of our employees were unionized. We are subject to several collective bargaining agreements with employees at our Miamisburg, Ohio; Parsons, Kansas; Elk Grove, Illinois; New Braunfels, Texas; Tremont, Pennsylvania; Santa Fe Springs, California; City of Industry, California; and Aurora, Illinois facilities. These collective bargaining agreements are scheduled to terminate beginning in March 2008 through May 2011, and we cannot offer assurances that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. Any shortage of labor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Generally, these employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. In such event, we may not be able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel. Accordingly, it is possible that our business would be materially adversely affected if one or more of these key individuals left. We do not maintain any key-man or similar insurance policies covering any of our senior management or key personnel. The nature of our business involves product liability and construction-related risks that could adversely affect our operating results. Our products are used in various construction projects, and defects in our products could result in claims for personal injury or death and property damage. While we maintain insurance to cover these claims, it is possible that existing or future claims will exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, it is possible that third-party insurance will not continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the construction industry that could result in personal injury or death, work stoppage or serious damage to our equipment or to the property of our customers. To protect ourselves against such casualty and liability risks, we maintain an insurance program. Our deductibles per incident are $500,000 for general liability, $350,000 workers’ compensation liability and $1,000 for automobile liability. In addition, we maintain a one-time annual deductible of $4.0 million for general liability and $5.0 million for workers’ compensation liability coverage. We maintain outside insurance for such liability in excess of these deductibles. Our deductibles may cause us to incur significant costs. If our insurance premiums or other costs rise significantly in the future, our profitability could be reduced. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your stock at prices equal to or greater than your purchase price. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; • strategic actions by us or our competitors; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; 10 Table of Contents • changes in general economic conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; and • sales of common stock by us or our principal stockholders or by members of our management team. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our business. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including, but not limited to, the following: • our board of directors is classified into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered three-year term; • only our board of directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; • we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • our stockholders have only limited rights to amend our by-laws; and • we require advance notice for stockholder proposals. These provisions could discourage proxy contests, make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions and may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. Any delay or prevention of a change in control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could deprive holders of our common stock of the opportunity to sell their common stock at a price in excess of the prevailing trading price and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our disclosure controls and procedures were not operating effectively at December 31, 2007. We identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. This material weakness resulted in a misstatement of the Company’s December 31, 2006 and 2005 consolidated statements of cash flows. As a result, management concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not operating effectively, due to the material weakness. Specifically, the Company did not maintain effective controls to appropriately apply Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows, related to cash received for sales of rental equipment. This error resulted in a misstatement of cash flows from investing and operating activities. We have taken steps to correct this deficiency. We cannot be certain, however, that these measures will ensure that we maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures in the future. In addition, we may identify other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures that we have not discovered to date. There could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 11 Table of Contents 