ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks we discuss below are events, conditions and uncertainties we believe could have a meaningful adverse impact on our growth, asset quality, liquidity and net interest spread. Growth, asset quality, liquidity and net interest spread are integral to our business, financial position and profitability. Growth is important for several reasons. Increasing our size could help reduce our funding costs, retain and attract qualified personnel, finance larger customers and compete more effectively. If we are unable to grow, our funding costs could increase, we could lose personnel and it could be harder for us to compete. We consider asset quality the most important aspect of our business. Asset quality statistics, delinquencies, non-performing assets and net charge-offs, (i) measure how effectively we collect our receivables (ii) reflect the effectiveness of our underwriting standards, skills, policies and procedures and (iii) can indicate the direction of future net charge-offs and non-performing assets. When asset quality weakens, revenue is reduced, provisions for credit losses increase and operating expenses increase because we would classify more receivables as impaired (stop recognizing income), we would incur more write-downs and we would incur more costs to collect and manage the additional non-performing accounts. Significantly weaker asset quality could also limit our ability to obtain or retain needed capital and could cause our credit ratings to be lowered. We use various strategies to manage credit risk. We discuss asset quality and how we manage credit risk in detail in the Finance Receivables and Asset Quality section in Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" ("MD&A"). Liquidity (money currently available for us to borrow) and access to capital (debt and equity) are vital to our operations and growth. We cannot maintain or grow our finance receivables and we may not be able to repay debt if our access to capital is limited. We discuss this in detail in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the MD&A. 3 Our net interest spread (net yield of finance receivables less cost of debt) is the key component of our profitability. Decreases in net interest spread lower net income. Net interest spread is affected by changes in market interest rates and credit spreads. We discuss this in detail in the Market Interest Rate Risk and Sensitivity section of the MD&A. RISKS A slowdown in the economy could reverse our growth and cause the quality of our finance receivables to deteriorate A recession or less severe economic slowdown would reduce demand for the equipment we finance. This would limit our ability to obtain new business and lower or reverse our finance receivables growth. An economic slowdown would also weaken asset quality because more of our customers would not be able to pay us timely if at all and the value of the equipment securing our finance receivables would decline, possibly significantly. This would increase delinquencies, non-performing assets and net charge-offs. Therefore, slowing economic conditions would weaken our financial position and profitability, and depending on the severity of the impact, could make it difficult for us to maintain our credit ratings and to obtain needed capital. Most finance companies face this risk, but its effects can be more pronounced on us because we only have one source of revenue and one line of business, commercial equipment financing. Our inability to collect our finance receivables would cause our asset quality to deteriorate It is critical for finance companies to collect all amounts owed from their customers. Asset quality weakens when customers fail to make their payments or pay late, or when the value of the equipment securing receivables declines. Therefore, finance companies must underwrite transactions properly and must be diligent in collecting past due accounts. Underwriting includes assessing the customer's creditworthiness, obtaining and assessing the value of collateral and ensuring transactions are documented properly. Equipment values can decline because of excess supply, reduced demand, limited availability of parts and regulatory changes (e.g. higher vehicle emissions standards). We may need to raise dilutive, expensive capital if our inability to collect receivables causes significant write-downs. Our inability to obtain needed capital or maintain adequate liquidity would reverse our receivables growth Our ability to obtain new debt or equity or to renew or refinance credit facilities (see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of our MD&A for information about maturity and expiration dates) could be limited by (i) conditions in and the availability of funds in capital markets as discussed further in the Significant Events section of our MD&A (ii) a significant deterioration in our asset quality (iii) a significant deterioration in our profitability (iv) reductions of our credit ratings (v) the poor performance of other finance companies and (vi) economic conditions. Capital markets have been reluctant to provide capital to finance companies facing these conditions. We may need to sell receivables, possibly at a loss, to finance our operations if we are unable to obtain or renew needed financing. Rising short-term market interest rates would reduce our net interest spread Rising short-term market interest rates reduce our net interest spread because our floating rate debt (includes short-term debt) exceeds our floating rate finance receivables significantly (by $448.0 million at July 31, 2009 as adjusted for the $168.6 million August 2009 repayment of fixed rate term notes). Our net interest spread would also decrease when the differences between long and short-term rates narrow (resulting in a "flattening yield curve") or when short-term rates exceed long-term rates (an "inverted yield curve"). Rising short-term interest rates could also cause an economic slowdown, and an inverted yield curve has been a precursor to economic downturns. Most finance companies face this risk, but its effect is more pronounced on us because of the significant difference between our floating rate debt and floating rate receivables. Short-term market interest rates are at or near their lowest levels ever. Therefore, the current risks of rising short-term interest rates are much greater than usual. We face increased competition because of our small size Most of our competitors are significantly larger than we are. Larger competitors have many competitive advantages. We compete with large national and regional banks, manufacturer-owned finance companies (commonly called "captives") and other finance and leasing companies. Larger competitors have greater resources, lower-cost funding sources and offer more products and services. This enables them to offer interest rates lower than ours and to finance larger customers. Larger competitors could also lower the rates they offer to levels that we may be unwilling or unable to match because the rates would not be sufficient to cover the level of risk and because our funding costs may be higher. This has been occurring in fiscal 2009 and has contributed to the decrease in finance receivables outstanding, and could reduce our net interest spread if we see the need to lower the rates we charge. 4 We may not be able to retain employees key to our operations We have 206 employees and we are highly dependent on a small number of key operating personnel including our CEO. The loss of key operating personnel (i) could impair our ability to maintain or grow our finance receivables and to maintain asset quality because they are familiar with our operating methods and are integral in our customer relationships, and (ii) could impair our ability to raise capital. There is competition for qualified people in the finance industry and our larger competitors may offer higher salaries and better benefits. We do not have employment contracts with key employees. Instead, we periodically award shares of restricted stock to them with extended vesting periods. It would be difficult for us to replace our key employees. Our growth and asset quality are highly dependent on conditions in the construction and road transportation industries Over 80% of our finance receivables are with customers in the construction and road transportation industries. Therefore, a slowdown in or other events or conditions affecting these industries adversely would have similar, or worse, negative effects on us as a general economic slowdown. Many of our construction customers' business depend on State funding. Therefore, limited availability of State funds for construction projects would have a negative effect on their business and cash flows. This limited focus of our business could also limit our ability to grow, could make it difficult for us to expand our business to other industries and could cause us to be affected by slowing economic conditions more severely. Lending to small, privately owned companies exposes us to increased credit risk Most of our customers are small to medium sized, privately owned businesses with significantly less resources than larger companies. Therefore, the effects of poor local economic conditions, general economic conditions, rising gasoline and interest costs, loss of key personnel or increased competition on their operations and ability to pay us could be more pronounced because of their size. Significantly higher prices and limited availability of gasoline could impact our customers severely and weaken our asset quality Most of the equipment we finance uses gasoline. It is a significant operating expense for our customers and its cost and availability are critical to their operations. Higher than normal increases in its price or a disruption in its supply could hurt our customers' operations and their ability to pay us, and could cause an economic slowdown. Our allowance for credit losses may be insufficient to cover future net charge-offs Our allowance for credit losses may be inadequate if our asset quality unexpectedly weakens significantly. This would cause us to record larger provisions for credit losses. We discuss this in detail in the Critical Accounting Policies section of our MD&A. Our failure to comply with State and Federal lending and leasing regulations could result in write-offs and litigation Our business activities, including amounts we can charge customers, equipment repossession, lien perfection and documentation, are subject to State and Federal regulations. Our failure to comply with these regulations or changes to these regulations could prevent us from collecting the amounts owed from customers, and could result in lawsuits, penalties and fines against us and restrictions on our ability to do business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 