Item 1A. Risk FactorsUncertain economic conditions and any future downturn in the automotive market, industrial market or other markets we serve are expected to adversely affect our business and financial results.Substantially all of our products are incorporated into products for the automotive, communications, IMM, and digital consumer markets. In particular, in fiscal 2014 and in fiscal 2013, approximately 47% and 46%, respectively, of our sales were to the automotive market and any future downturn in this market would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Historically, the automotive, communications, IMM, and digital consumer markets have experienced cyclical depressed business conditions, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, a decline in general economic conditions, or due to adverse supply and demand conditions in such markets. Industry downturns have resulted in reduced demand and declining average selling prices for our products which adversely affected our business. During uncertain economic conditions, our current or potential customers may delay or reduce purchases of our products which would adversely affect our revenues and harm our business and financial results. In addition, any uncertainty in the economy may negatively impact the spending patterns of businesses including our current and potential customers. We expect our business to be adversely impacted by any further downturn in the U.S. or global economies.Our sales depend on DRAM and SRAM products and reduced demand for these products or a decline in average selling prices could harm our business.In fiscal 2014, fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, approximately 89%, 88% and 96%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from the sale of DRAM and SRAM products, which are subject to unit volume fluctuations and declines in average selling prices that could harm our business. We experienced a sequential decline in revenue from $84.8 million in the June 2014 quarter to $84.2 million in the September 2014 quarter partially as a result of a decrease in unit shipments of our SRAM products. While our total revenue increased in the December 2012 quarter, our DRAM and SRAM revenue declined 4.9% in the December 2012 quarter from the September 2012 quarter due to weakness in the communications market. We also experienced a sequential decline in revenue from $66.2 million in the December 2011 quarter to $62.5 million in the March 2012 quarter primarily as a result of a decrease in unit shipments of our DRAM products. We may not be able to offset any future price declines for our products by higher volumes or by higher prices on newer products. While we experienced increases in the average selling prices for certain of our products in fiscal 2012, fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2014, historically, average selling prices for semiconductor memory products have declined, and we expect that average selling prices for our products will decline in the future. Although we entered the NOR Flash market with our acquisition of Chingis in September 2012, our NOR Flash business is generally subject to the same types of unit volume fluctuations and declines in average selling prices as our DRAM and SRAM businesses. Our ability to maintain or increase revenues will depend upon our ability to increase unit sales volume of existing products and introduce and sell new products that compensate for the anticipated declines in the average selling prices of our existing products.If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers due to industry consolidation involving foundries, financial difficulties at foundries or other reasons, our business will be harmed unless we are able to secure alternative capacity in a timely manner and on reasonable terms.If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers from our current suppliers or any alternative sources in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, our business will be severely harmed. For example, our revenue in both the September 2014 quarter and the March 2013 quarter was adversely affected as we were unable to secure an adequate supply of NOR flash wafers. Our principal manufacturing relationships are with GlobalFoundries, Hynix, Nanya, Powerchip, SMIC, TSMC, UMC, Vanguard and XMC. Each of our wafer foundries also supplies wafers to other semiconductor companies, including certain of our competitors or for their own account. Although we are allocated wafer capacity from our key suppliers, we may not be able to obtain such capacity in periods of tight supply. If any of our suppliers experience manufacturing failures or yield shortfalls, severe financial or operational difficulties, choose to prioritize capacity for other uses, or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us for any other reason, we may not be able to obtain enough wafers to meet the market demand for our products which would adversely affect our revenues. In recent years, it has been more difficult for us to secure long-term foundry capacity (particularly for our DRAM products) due to industry consolidation affecting foundries and adverse financial conditions at foundries. From time to time, certain of our wafer foundries have announced that they will no longer produce a specific type of wafer we may need (especially certain types of DRAM wafers). In such event, we have had to and expect in the future to have to place large last time buy orders which expose us to the risk of inventory obsolescence. Once a product is in production at a particular foundry, it is time consuming and costly to have such product manufactured at a different foundry. In addition, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for existing or new products in a timely manner and we cannot be certain that other manufacturing sources would be able to deliver an adequate supply of wafers to us or at the same cost. 10Foundry capacity can be limited, resulting in higher wafer prices, and we have had to enter into special arrangements to secure foundry capacity.If we are not able to obtain sufficient foundry capacity as required, our relationships with our customers would be harmed and our future sales would be adversely impacted. In order to secure foundry capacity, we have entered into in the past, and will likely enter into in the future, various arrangements with suppliers, which could include:•option payments or other prepayments to foundries;•increased prices for wafers;•purchases of equity or debt securities in foundries;•nonrefundable deposits with, or loans to, foundries in exchange for capacity commitments;•contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended periods:•process development relationships with foundries; and•joint ventures.In this regard, in September 2012, we invested approximately $27.1 million in Nanya and entered into an agreement with Nanya to provide us with access to leading edge process technologies and certain wafer volume guarantees.In the future, we may not be able to make arrangements for needed foundry capacity in a timely fashion or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on terms favorable to us. Once we make commitments to secure foundry capacity, we may incur significant financial penalties if we subsequently determine that we are not able to utilize all of that capacity. Such penalties may be substantial and could harm our financial results. In addition, we must be able to secure sufficient assembly and test capacity from third-party contractors. In order to secure such capacity, we are exposed to many of the same risks we face when securing foundry capacity. In the past, we have purchased testing equipment for use by our contractors to satisfy a portion of our capacity needs. If we are not able to secure required assembly and test capacity, our business and customer relationships would be harmed.We rely on third-party contractors to fabricate, assemble and test our products. Our business is highly dependent on the continued operations of such contractors and our failure to successfully manage our relationships with these contractors could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth.We rely on third-party contractors located in Asia to fabricate, assemble and test our products. Any uncertain economic conditions or uncertainty in the U.S. and global credit markets could materially impact the financial condition or operations of our third-party contractors such as our wafer foundries, test contractors and assembly contractors. Our business is highly dependent on the continued operations of such contractors. Any deterioration in the financial condition of our contractors or any disruption in the operations of our contractors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and materially adversely impact our business and results of operation. In recent years, several foundries (including foundries that we relied on for wafers)experienced financial difficulties and filed for bankruptcy protection, substantially reduced their operations or were acquired by competing companies. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on these third-party contractors, including:•potential price increases;•possible capacity shortages;•foundries ceasing production of wafer types that we need;•financial viability of our foundries or other contractors;•reduced control over product quality;•reduced control over delivery schedules;•their inability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis;•absence of long-term agreements;•limited warranties on products supplied to us;•impact of foreign exchange rates on our product costs; and•general risks related to conducting business internationally.If any of these risks are realized, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected until our subcontractor is able to remedy the problem or until we are able to secure an alternative subcontractor. 11Potential intellectual property claims and litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and could invalidate our proprietary rights.In the semiconductor industry, it is not unusual for companies to receive notices alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights. We have been, and from time-to-time expect to be, notified of claims that we may be infringing patents, maskwork rights or copyrights owned by third-parties. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents that we are alleged to be infringing. However, licenses may not be offered and the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us.The failure to obtain a license under a key patent or intellectual property right from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of the products utilizing the invention or to attempt to develop non-infringing products, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we may become involved in protracted litigation regarding the alleged infringement by us of third-party intellectual property rights or litigation to assert and protect our patents or other intellectual property rights. Any litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could harm our business. In this regard, please refer to "Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings" for discussion of our pending litigation with GSI.Our foundries may experience lower than expected yields which could adversely affect our business.The manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Production yields and device reliability can be affected by a large number of factors. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, our foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields and device reliability problems, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and changes in such foundry’s processing steps. There can be no assurance that our foundries will not experience lower than expected manufacturing yields or device reliability problems in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.Our operating results are expected to continue to fluctuate and may not meet our financial guidance or published analyst forecasts. This may cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly.Our future quarterly and annual operating results are subject to fluctuations due to a wide variety of factors, including:•changes in the global economy;•changes in business conditions in our key markets especially the automotive and industrial markets;•cancellation of existing orders or the failure to secure new orders;•shortages in foundry, assembly or test capacity;•the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry;•declines in average selling prices of our products;•changes in our product mix which could reduce our gross margins;•a failure to introduce new products and to implement technologies on a timely basis;•disruption in the supply of wafers, assembly or test services;•changes in the pricing for wafers or assembly or test services;•oversupply of memory or analog products in the market;•inventory write-downs for lower of cost or market or excess and obsolete products;•fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar;•a failure to deliver products to customers on a timely basis;•excess inventory levels at our customers;•decreases in the demand for our memory or analog products;•our ability to control or reduce our operating expenses;•the costs and outcome of any pending or future litigation including our litigation with GSI;•increased expenses associated with new product introductions, masks or process changes;•the ability of customers to make payments to us;•market acceptance of ours and our customers’ products;•a failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements;•fluctuations in manufacturing yields at our suppliers;•fluctuations in product quality resulting in rework, replacement, or loss due to damages; 12•the timing of significant orders; and•the commencement of any future litigation or antidumping proceedings.Shifts in industry-wide capacity may cause our results to fluctuate. These shifts may occur quickly with little or no advance notice. Such shifts have historically resulted in significant inventory write-downs.The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is subject to significant downturns resulting from excess capacity, overproduction, reduced demand or technological obsolescence. Shifts in industry-wide capacity from shortages to oversupply or from oversupply to shortages may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results. These shifts in industry conditions can occur quickly with little or no advance notice to us. Adverse changes in industry conditions are likely to result in a decline in average selling prices and the stated value of our inventory. In fiscal 2014, in fiscal 2013, and in fiscal 2012, we recorded inventory write-downs of $5.6 million, $4.6 million, and $5.7 million, respectively. These inventory write-downs related to adjusting our inventory valuation for certain excess and obsolete products, and valuing our inventory at the lower-of-cost-or-market.Differences in forecasted average selling prices used in calculating lower of cost or market adjustments can result in significant changes in the estimated net realizable value of inventory and accordingly the amount of write-down recorded. If the estimated market value of products in inventory at quarter-end is below the manufacturing cost of these products, we will recognize charges to write down the carrying value of our inventories to market value. In addition, we write down to zero dollars the carrying value of inventory on hand that has aged over one year (two years for wafer and die bank) to cover estimated excess and obsolete exposures, unless adjustments are made based on management’s judgments for newer products, end of life products, planned inventory increases or strategic customer supply. In making such judgments to write down inventory, management takes into account the product life cycles which can range from six to 30 months, the stage in the life cycle of the product, the impact of competitors’ announcements and product introductions on our products. Future additional inventory write-downs may occur due to lower of cost or market accounting, excess inventory or inventory obsolescence.Strong competition in the semiconductor market may harm our business.The semiconductor market is intensely competitive and has been characterized by an oversupply of product, price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and heightened foreign and domestic competition. Many of our competitors offer broader product lines and have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. We may not be able to compete successfully against any of these competitors. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including:•the pricing of our products;•the supply and cost of wafers;•product design, functionality, performance and reliability;•successful and timely product development;•the performance of our competitors and their pricing policies;•wafer manufacturing over or under capacity;•real or perceived imbalances in supply and demand for our products;•the rate at which OEM customers incorporate our products into their systems;•the gain or loss of significant customers;•the success of our customers’ products and end-user demand;•access to advanced process technologies at competitive prices;•achievement of acceptable yields of functional die;•the capacity of our third-party contractors to assemble and test our products;•the nature and success of our competitors;•our financial strength and the financial strength of our competitors; and•general economic conditions.In addition, we are vulnerable to technology advances utilized by competitors to manufacture higher performance or lower cost products. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future as to any of these factors. Our failure to compete successfully in these or other areas could harm our business and financial results. 13Our revenues and business would be harmed if we are not able to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products and develop and implement new manufacturing technologies in a timely manner. Our research and development expenses could increase and our business could be harmed if the implementation of these new manufacturing technologies is unsuccessful.We operate in highly competitive, quickly changing markets which are characterized by rapid obsolescence of existing products. As a result, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that our customers choose to buy in significant quantities. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner or if our customers’ products do not achieve commercial success, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. The design and introduction of new products is challenging as such products typically incorporate more functions and operate at faster speeds than prior products. Increasing complexity generally requires smaller features on a chip. This makes developing new generations of products substantially more difficult than prior generations. The cost to develop products utilizing these new technologies is expensive and requires significant research and development spending and, as a result, our research and development expenses could increase in the future. Further, new products may not work properly in our customers’ applications. If we are unable to design, introduce, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, our business and financial results would be seriously harmed.The loss of a significant customer or a reduction in orders from one or more large customers could adversely affect our operating results.As sales to our customers are executed pursuant to purchase orders and no purchasing contracts typically exist, our customers can cease doing business with us at any time. We may not be able to retain our key customers, such customers may cancel or reschedule orders, and in the event of canceled orders, such orders may not be replaced by other sales. In addition, sales to any particular customer may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and such fluctuating sales could harm our business and financial results.We have significant international sales and operations and risks related to our international activities could harm our operating results.In fiscal 2014, approximately 12% of our net sales was attributable to customers located in the U.S., 23% was attributable to customers located in Europe and 65% was attributable to customers located in Asia. In fiscal 2013, approximately 12% of our net sales was attributable to customers located in the U.S., 20% was attributable to customers located in Europe and 67% was attributable to customers located in Asia. In fiscal 2012, approximately 16% of our net sales was attributable to customers located in the U.S., 21% was attributable to customers located in Europe and 62% was attributable to customers located in Asia. We anticipate that sales to international sites will continue to represent a significant percentage of our net sales. Although our international sales are largely denominated in U.S. dollars, we do have sales transactions in New Taiwan dollars, in Hong Kong dollars and in Chinese renminbi. In addition, our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors are primarily located in Taiwan and China and, while our wafer purchases are denominated in U.S. dollars, most of our assembly and test costs are denominated in New Taiwan dollars. A substantial majority of our employees are located outside of the U.S and the expenses for our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currency. As a result, a devaluation of the U.S. dollar compared to the New Taiwan dollar or Chinese renminbi could substantially increase the cost of our products and our operations in Taiwan or China.We are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including:•global economic conditions, particularly in Taiwan and China;•difficulties in hiring and retaining experienced engineers in countries such as China and Taiwan;•foreign currency fluctuations;•duties, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions;•changes in trade policy and regulatory requirements;•transportation delays;•the burdens of complying with foreign laws;•imposition of foreign currency controls;•language barriers;•difficulties in collecting foreign accounts receivable;•difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights;•political instability, including any changes in relations between China and Taiwan;•public health outbreaks such as SARS, ebola or avian flu; and•earthquakes and other natural disasters. 14We depend on our ability to attract and retain our key technical and management personnel.Our success depends upon the continued service of our key technical and management personnel. Several of our important manufacturing and other subcontractor relationships are based on personal relationships between our senior executive officers and such parties. In particular, our Executive Chairman has long-term relationships with our key foundries. If we were to lose the services of any key executives, it may negatively impact the related business relationships since we typically have no long-term contractual agreements with such parties. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel, particularly experienced circuit designers and process engineers. The competition for such employees depends on general economic and industry conditions but such competition has been intense in recent periods. We have no employment contracts or key person life insurance policies with or for any of our employees. The loss of the service of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business.Our products are complex and could contain defects, which could reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us.We develop complex and evolving products. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in existing or new products. This could result in a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. The occurrence of defects could also cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, could divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, and could harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of these problems could also result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek and obtain damages from us for their losses. From time to time, we have been involved in disputes regarding product warranty issues. Although we seek to limit our liability, a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and could be costly to defend.We may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, which would negatively impact our ability to compete.We believe that the protection of our intellectual proprietary rights will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and take actions to control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the U.S. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries, including countries in which we design and sell our products. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of our pending applications nor can we be certain that any issued patents would protect or benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged and declared invalid or unenforceable. We also cannot be certain that others will not develop similar technology or develop competing technologies on their own.We may encounter difficulties in effectively integrating newly acquired businesses.From time to time, we have acquired and expect in the future to acquire other companies or assets that we believe to be complementary to our business. In this regard, in September 2012, we acquired Chingis, a provider of NOR flash memory technologies used in standalone and embedded applications headquartered in Taiwan. In addition, in January 2011, we acquired Si En, a privately held fabless provider of high performance analog and mixed signal integrated circuits headquartered in Xiamen, China. Acquisitions may result in the use of our cash resources, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the possible impairment of goodwill, which could harm our profitability. For example, in fiscal 2012, we wrote-off $4.3 million of the goodwill we acquired with the acquisition of Si En. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:•lower than expected sales of any acquired products;•the risk that the markets for acquired products do not develop as expected;•difficulties in continuing to develop new technologies and deliver products to market on time;•the potential loss of key employees and customers as a result of the acquisition;•difficulties in successfully assimilating the operations, technologies and personnel of the acquired company;•diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns;•risks of entering markets in which we have no, or limited, direct prior experience; and•higher than estimated acquisition expenses. 15There is no assurance that any of our recent or future acquisitions will contribute positively to our business or operating results.Our stock price is expected to continue to be volatile.The trading price of our common stock has been and is expected to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to:•quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results;•general conditions or cyclicality in the semiconductor industry or the end markets that we serve;•new or revised earnings estimates or guidance by us or industry analysts;•comments or recommendations issued by analysts who follow us, our competitors or the semiconductor industry;•aggregate valuations and movement of stocks in the broader semiconductor industry;•announcements of new products, strategic relationships or acquisitions by us or our competitors;•increases or decreases in available wafer capacity;•governmental regulations, trade laws and import duties;•announcements related to future or existing litigation involving us or any of our competitors;•announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors;•announcements regarding our cash dividend program, including the timing and amount of any future dividends;•announcements regarding our share repurchase program and the timing and amount of shares we purchase under such program;•additions or departures of senior management; and•other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control.In addition, stock markets have from time to time experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected the market price of our common stock in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future.We have incurred significant losses in certain recent periods, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain profitability in the future.Though we had been profitable for twelve consecutive quarters beginning with the September 2009 quarter through the June 2012 quarter, we incurred a loss of $13.2 million in the September 2012 quarter and a loss of $2.7 million for fiscal 2012, which included a $14.3 million write-down for certain tangible and intangible net assets related to our acquisition of Si En and a charge of $2.3 million to write-down our investment in SMIC due to the decline in fair market value of such shares being considered other than temporary. There can be no assurance that we will maintain profitability in future periods. Our ability to maintain profitability on a quarterly or fiscal year basis in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the need for future inventory write-downs, impairment of goodwill, our ability to increase net sales, maintain or expand gross margins, introduce new products on a timely basis, secure sufficient wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity and control operating expenses, including stock-based compensation. Adverse developments with respect to these or other factors could result in quarterly or annual operating losses in the future.Adverse changes in our effective tax rate will harm our results of operations.A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rate, including:•the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed;•changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances;•exhaustion of our existing federal and foreign net operating loss carryforwards and credits;•our decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes;•increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;•limitations on the utilization of federal net operating loss carryforwards and credits; 16•the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;•adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;•changes in available tax credits;•changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and•changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.Any significant increase in our future effective tax rate will reduce our net income for future periods.We have used and may in the future use a significant amount of our cash resources to repurchase shares of our common stock and such repurchases present potential risks and disadvantages to us and our continuing stockholders.While we have not repurchased any shares since fiscal 2011, from September 2007 through September 2011, we repurchased and retired an aggregate of 14,179,711 shares of our common stock in the open market under Rule 10b-18 and pursuant to our tender offers at a cost of approximately $88.5 million. At September 30, 2014, we had outstanding authorization from our Board to purchase up to an additional $19.8 million of our common stock from time to time. Although our Board of Directors has determined that these repurchase programs are in the best interests of our stockholders, these repurchases expose us to a number of risks including:•the use of a substantial portion of our cash reserves, which may reduce our ability to engage in significant cash acquisitions or to pursue other business opportunities that could create significant value to our stockholders;•the risk that we would not be able to replenish our cash reserves by raising debt or equity financing in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all;•the risk that these repurchases have reduced our “public float,” which is the number of our shares owned by non-affiliate stockholders and available for trading in the securities markets, and likely reduced the number of our stockholders, which may reduce the volume of trading in our shares and may result in lower stock prices and reduced liquidity in the trading of our shares; and•the risk that our stock price could decline and that we would be able to repurchase shares of our common stock at a lower price per share than the prices we pay in our repurchase programs.Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.Our worldwide operations, including the operations of our foundries and other suppliers, could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in Milpitas, California, and our other critical business operations and many of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. Losses and interruptions could also be caused by earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, volcanic eruptions, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics such as a flu or ebola outbreak and other natural or manmade disasters.Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies.The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments and such changes could significantly affect our results of operations.Our operations involve the use of hazardous and toxic materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive, and may adversely affect our business and operating results.We are subject to federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage, disposal and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes, we could be subject to fines, costs, or civil or criminal sanctions, face property damage or personal injury claims or be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs or experience disruptions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing the risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. 17We also face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances applicable to specified electronic products placed on the market in the European Union (Restriction on the Use of Hazardous Substances Directive 2002/95/EC, also known as the RoHS Directive). We expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs, and could require that we change the design or manufacturing of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.We may experience difficulties in complying with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 in future periods.We concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at September 30, 2014. If, in the future, we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or we are unable to conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.