Item 1A. Risk Factors We have been named as a party to several lawsuits related to our historical stock option practices and related accounting, we may be named in additional litigation in the future and we are the subject of a formal SEC investigation, all of which could result in an unfavorable outcome and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price for our securities. Several lawsuits have been filed against certain of our current directors and officers and certain former directors and officers relating to our historical stock option practices and related accounting; we are named as nominal defendant in such matters. We are also subject to a formal SEC investigation with respect to such matters. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these proceedings. We may become the subject of additional private or government actions regarding these matters in the future. These actions are in the preliminary stages, and their ultimate outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price for our securities. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to our normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits has resulted and will continue to result in significant legal and accounting expenditures and the continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business. All or a portion of any amount we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these claims may not be covered by insurance. We have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our present and former directors and officers. Under those agreements, we are required to indemnify each such director or officer against expenses, including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines and settlements, paid by such individual in connection with the pending litigation subject to applicable Delaware law. If we do not maintain compliance with the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could be delisted, which could, among other things, reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In connection with the restatement of our financial statements, we were delinquent in filing certain of our periodic reports with the SEC, and consequently we were not in compliance with the listing requirements under the NASDAQ Global Market’s Marketplace Rules. Upon the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended June 30, 2006, December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, we believe that we will be in compliance with the NASDAQ listing standards. However, our securities could be delisted in the future if we do not maintain compliance with applicable listing requirements. If our securities are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, they would subsequently be transferred to the National Quotation Service Bureau, or “Pink Sheets.” The trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. If we are delisted in the future from the NASDAQ Global Market and transferred to the Pink Sheets, there may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our company. We have incurred significant losses in certain recent periods, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We incurred losses of $14.2 million in fiscal 2006, which included inventory write-downs of $16.5 million. We incurred losses of $39.8 million in fiscal 2005, which included inventory write-downs of $13.9 million, charges of $11.7 million related to our equity interest in ICSI, charges on impairment of goodwill and investments of $4.7 million and charges for in-process R&D of $2.8 million. Though we were profitable in the first three quarters of fiscal 2004, we incurred a loss in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, which included an inventory write-down of $12.1 million. Though we were profitable in the September 2006 quarter, there is no assurance that we will maintain or achieve profitability in subsequent quarters. Our ability to achieve and 14 Table of Contents maintain profitability on a quarterly or fiscal year basis in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the need for future inventory write-downs, our ability to increase net sales, maintain or expand gross margins, introduce new products on a timely basis, secure sufficient wafer fabrication capacity and control operating expenses, including stock-based compensation as required by SFAS 123R. Adverse developments with respect to these or other factors could result in quarterly or annual operating losses in the future. Our operating results are expected to continue to fluctuate and may not meet our financial guidance or published analyst forecasts. This may cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. Our future quarterly and annual operating results are subject to fluctuations due to a wide variety of factors, including: • the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry; • declines in average selling prices of our products; • inventory write-downs for lower of cost or market or excess and obsolete; • excess inventory levels at our customers; • decreases in the demand for our products; • oversupply of memory products in the market; • our ability to control or reduce our operating expenses; • shortages in foundry, assembly or test capacity; • disruption in the supply of wafers, assembly or test services; • changes in our product mix which could reduce our gross margins; • cancellation of existing orders or the failure to secure new orders; • a failure to introduce new products and to implement technologies on a timely basis; • market acceptance of ours and our customers’ products; • economic slowness and low end-user demand; • a failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields at our suppliers; • fluctuations in product quality resulting in rework, replacement, or loss due to damages; • a failure to deliver products to customers on a timely basis; • the timing of significant orders; • increased expenses associated with new product introductions, masks or process changes; • the ability of customers to make payments to us; • the outcome of any pending or future litigation; and • the commencement of any future litigation or antidumping proceedings. 15 Table of Contents Our sales depend on DRAM and SRAM products and reduced demand for these products or a decline in average selling prices could harm our business. In fiscal 2006 and in fiscal 2005, approximately 91% and 88%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from the sale of DRAM and SRAM products, which are subject to unit volume fluctuations and declines in average selling prices that could harm our business. For example, we experienced a sequential decline in revenue from $61.5 million in our September 2005 quarter to $51.1 million in our December 2005 quarter. This decline in revenue was primarily the result of a decrease in unit shipments and the average selling prices of our DRAM products. In the December 2005 quarter, we turned down some orders for DRAM products that had unfavorable margins as a result of the decrease in the average selling prices in the market. We may not be able to offset any future price declines for our products by higher volumes or by higher prices on newer products. Historically, average selling prices for semiconductor memory products have declined, and we expect that average selling prices for our products will decline in the future. Our ability to maintain or increase revenues will depend upon our ability to increase unit sales volume of existing products and introduce and sell new products that compensate for the anticipated declines in the average selling prices of our existing products. We are subject to pending legal proceedings related to the SRAM market. We have been named as a defendant in a number of civil antirust complaints filed against semiconductor companies on behalf of purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers of SRAM products throughout the United States. The complaints allege that the defendants conspired to raise the price of SRAM in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, the California Cartwright Act, and several other State antitrust, unfair competition and consumer protection statutes. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the allegations in the complaints, and we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously. However, the litigation is in the preliminary stage and we cannot predict its outcome. Multidistrict antitrust litigation is particularly complex and can extend for a protracted time, which can substantially increase the cost of such litigation. The defense of these lawsuits is also expected to divert the efforts and attention of some of our key management and technical personnel. As a result, our defense of this litigation, regardless of its eventual outcome, will likely be costly and time consuming. Should the outcome of the litigation be adverse to us, we could be required to pay significant monetary damages, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Any future downturn in the markets we serve would harm our business and financial results. Substantially all of our products are incorporated into products for the digital consumer electronics, networking, mobile communications and automotive electronics markets. Historically, these markets have experienced cyclical depressed business conditions, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, a decline in general economic conditions or due to adverse supply and demand conditions in such markets. Industry downturns have resulted in reduced demand and declining average selling prices for our products which adversely affected our business. We expect that our industry will remain cyclical, and we are unable to predict when any upturn or downturn will occur or how long it will last. Shifts in industry-wide capacity may cause our results to fluctuate. These shifts may occur quickly with little or no advance notice. Such shifts have historically resulted in significant inventory write-downs. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is subject to significant downturns resulting from excess capacity, overproduction, reduced demand or technological obsolescence. Shifts in industry-wide capacity from shortages to oversupply or from oversupply to shortages may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results. These shifts in industry conditions can occur quickly with little or no advance notice to us. Adverse changes in industry conditions are likely to result in a decline in average selling prices and the stated value of inventory. In fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, we recorded inventory write-downs of $16.5 million, $13.9 million and $17.3 million, respectively. The inventory write-downs related to valuing our inventory at the lower-of-cost-or-market, and adjusting our inventory valuation for certain excess and obsolete products. 16 Table of Contents We write down to zero dollars the carrying value of inventory on hand in excess of six months’ historical sales volumes to cover estimated excess and obsolete exposures, unless adjustments are made based on management’s judgments for newer products, end of life products, planned inventory increases or strategic customer supply. In making such judgments to write down inventory, management takes into account the product life cycles which can range from six to 30 months, the stage in the life cycle of the product, the impact of competitors’ announcements and product introductions on our products. We believe that six months is an appropriate period because it is difficult to accurately forecast for a specific product beyond this time frame due to the potential introduction of products by competitors, technology obsolescence or fluctuations in demand. Future additional inventory write-downs may occur due to lower of cost or market accounting, excess inventory or inventory obsolescence. Our transition to lead-free parts may result in excess inventory of products packaged using traditional methods. Customers are requiring that we offer our products in lead-free packages. Governmental regulations in certain countries and customers’ intention to produce products that are less harmful to the environment has resulted in a requirement from many of our customers to purchase integrated circuits that do not contain lead. We have responded by offering our products in lead-free versions. While the lead-free versions of our products are expected to be more friendly to the environment, the ultimate impact is uncertain. The transition to lead-free products may produce sudden changes in demand depending on the packaging method used, which may result in excess inventory of products packaged using traditional methods. This may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the quality, cost and manufacturing yields of the lead-free parts may be less favorable to us than the products packaged using more traditional materials which may result in higher product costs. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers, our business will be harmed. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers from our current suppliers or any alternative sources in a timely manner, our business will be harmed. Our principal manufacturing relationships are with Powerchip Semiconductor, SMIC, TSMC, and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing. Each of our wafer foundries also supplies wafers to other semiconductor companies, including certain of our competitors or for their own account. Although we are allocated specific wafer capacity from our suppliers, we may not be able to obtain such capacity in periods of tight supply. If any of our suppliers experience manufacturing failures or yield shortfalls, choose to prioritize capacity for other uses, or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, we may not be able to obtain enough wafers to meet the market demand for our products which would adversely affect our revenues. Once a product is in production at a particular foundry, it is time consuming and costly to have such product manufactured at a different foundry. In addition, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for existing or new products in a timely manner and we cannot be certain that other manufacturing sources would be able to deliver an adequate supply of wafers to us or at the same cost. Our gross margins may decline even in periods of increasing revenue. Our gross margin is affected by a variety of factors, including our mix of products sold, average selling prices for our products and cost of wafers. Even when our revenues are increasing, our gross margin may be adversely affected if such increased revenue is from products with lower margins or declining average selling prices. During periods of strong demand, wafer capacity is likely to be in short supply and we will likely have to pay higher prices for wafers, which would adversely affect our gross margin unless we are able to increase our product prices to offset such costs. To maintain our gross margins when average selling prices are declining, we must introduce new products with higher margins or reduce our cost per unit. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase unit sales volumes, introduce and sell new products or reduce our cost per unit. 17 Table of Contents We may encounter difficulties in effectively integrating newly acquired businesses. From time to time, we may acquire other companies or assets that we believe to be complementary to our business. Acquisitions may result in use of our cash resources, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the possible impairment of goodwill, which could harm our profitability. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • higher than estimated acquisition expenses; • difficulties in successfully assimilating the operations, technologies and personnel of the acquired company; • difficulties in continuing to develop the new technologies and deliver products to market on time; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks of entering markets in which we have no, or limited, direct prior experience; • the risk that the markets for acquired products do not develop as expected; and • the potential loss of key employees and customers as a result of the acquisition. In this regard, in February 2006, we sold our shares of Signia as we decided to exit the Bluetooth market and focus on our core product strategy. We sold approximately 77% of our investment in Signia for approximately $4.6 million which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $2.2 million. As a result of the sale of the Signia shares, we reduced our ownership percentage in Signia to approximately 16% and effective March 2006 account for Signia on the cost basis. For the period ending September 30, 2005, we incurred an impairment charge of $4.4 million related to the goodwill acquired with Signia. There is no assurance that any future acquisitions will contribute positively to our business or operating results. We rely on third-party contractors to assemble and test our products and our failure to successfully manage our relationships with these contractors could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We rely on third-party contractors located in Asia to assemble and test our products. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on these third-party contractors, including: • reduced control over product quality; • potential price increases; • reduced control over delivery schedules; • possible capacity shortages; • their inability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; • absence of long-term agreements; • limited warranties on products supplied to us; and • general risks related to conducting business internationally. If any of these risks are realized, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected until our subcontractor is able to remedy the problem or until we are able to secure an alternative subcontractor. 18 Table of Contents The loss of a significant customer or a reduction in orders from one or more large customers could adversely affect our operating results. As sales to our customers are executed pursuant to purchase orders and no purchasing contracts typically exist, our customers can cease doing business with us at any time. We may not be able to retain our key customers, such customers may cancel or reschedule orders, and in the event of canceled orders, such orders may not be replaced by other sales. In addition, sales to any particular customer may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and such fluctuating sales could harm our business and financial results. We have significant international sales and operations and risks related to our international activities could harm our operating results. In fiscal 2006, approximately 17% of our net sales was attributable to customers located in the U.S., 10% was attributable to customers located in Europe and 73% was attributable to customers located in Asia. In fiscal 2005, approximately 15% of our net sales was attributable to customers in the U.S., 9% was attributable to customers in Europe and 75% was attributable to customers in Asia. We anticipate that sales to international sites will continue to represent a significant percentage of our net sales. In addition, all of our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors are in Taiwan and China and a substantial majority of our employees are located outside of the U.S. As a result, a devaluation of the New Taiwan dollar or Chinese Renminbi could substantially increase the cost of our operations in Taiwan or China. We are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including: • global economic conditions, particularly in Taiwan and China; • duties, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; • foreign currency fluctuations; • changes in trade policy and regulatory requirements; • transportation delays; • the burdens of complying with foreign laws; • imposition of foreign currency controls; • language barriers; • difficulties in hiring and retaining experienced engineers in countries such as China and Taiwan; • difficulties in collecting foreign accounts receivable; • political instability, including any changes in relations between China and Taiwan; and • earthquakes, diseases (SARS/ avian flu) and other natural disasters. Strong competition in the semiconductor memory market may harm our business. The semiconductor memory market is intensely competitive and has been characterized by an oversupply of product, price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and heightened foreign and domestic competition. Many of our competitors offer broader product lines and have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. We may not be able to compete successfully against any of these competitors. Our ability to compete successfully in the memory market depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including: • the pricing of our products; • the supply and cost of wafers; 19 Table of Contents • product design, functionality, performance and reliability; • successful and timely product development; • the performance of our competitors and their pricing policies; • wafer manufacturing over or under capacity; • real or perceived imbalances in supply and demand for our products; • the rate at which OEM customers incorporate our products into their systems; • the success of our customers’ products and end-user demand; • access to advanced process technologies at competitive prices; • achievement of acceptable yields of functional die; • the capacity of our third-party contractors to assemble and test our products; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • the nature of our competitors; and • general economic conditions. In addition, we are vulnerable to technology advances utilized by competitors to manufacture higher performance or lower cost products. In particular, a competitor with a materially smaller die size and lower cost could dramatically gain market share in a short period of time. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future as to any of these factors. Our failure to compete successfully in these or other areas could harm our business and financial results. Our revenues and business would be harmed if we are not able to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products and develop and implement new manufacturing technologies in a timely manner. Our research and development expenses could increase and our business could be harmed if the implementation of these new manufacturing technologies is unsuccessful. We operate in highly competitive, quickly changing markets which are characterized by rapid obsolescence of existing products. As a result, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that our customers choose to buy in significant quantities. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner or if our customers’ products do not achieve commercial success, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. The design and introduction of new products is challenging as such products typically incorporate more functions and operate at faster speeds than prior products. Increasing complexity generally requires smaller features on a chip. This makes developing new generations of products substantially more difficult than prior generations. The cost to develop products utilizing these new technologies is expensive and requires significant research and development spending and, as a result, our research and development expenses could increase in the future. Further, new products may not work properly in our customers’ applications. If we are unable to design, introduce, market and sell new products successfully, our business and financial results would be seriously harmed. Our products are complex and could contain defects, which could reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. We develop complex and evolving products. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in existing or new products. This could result in a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. The occurrence of defects could also cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, could divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, and could harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of these problems could result in 20 Table of Contents the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek and obtain damages from us for their losses. From time to time, we have been involved in disputes regarding product warranty issues. Although we seek to limit our liability, a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and could be costly to defend. Potential intellectual property claims and litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and could invalidate our proprietary rights. In the semiconductor industry, it is not unusual for companies to receive notices alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights. We have been, and from time-to-time expect to be, notified of claims that we may be infringing patents, maskwork rights or copyrights owned by third-parties. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents that we are alleged to be infringing. However, licenses may not be offered and the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license under a key patent or intellectual property right from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of the products utilizing the invention or to attempt to develop non-infringing products, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we may become involved in protracted litigation regarding the alleged infringement by us of third-party intellectual property rights or litigation to assert and protect our patents or other intellectual property rights. Any litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters could result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources, which could harm our business. We may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, which would negatively impact our ability to compete. We believe that the protection of our intellectual proprietary rights will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the U.S. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries, including countries in which we design and sell our products. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of our pending applications nor can we be certain that any issued patents would protect or benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged and declared invalid or unenforceable. We also cannot be certain that others will not develop our unpatented proprietary technology or effective competing technologies on their own. We have acquired equity positions for strategic reasons in other companies which may significantly decrease in value. Over the last several years, we have acquired equity positions for strategic reasons in other technology companies and we may make similar equity purchases in the future. At September 30, 2006, our strategic investments in non-marketable securities totaled $3.0 million. These equity investments may not increase in value and there is the possibility that they could decrease in value over time, even to the point of becoming completely worthless. These equity securities are evaluated for impairment on a recurring basis and any reductions in the carrying value would lower our profitability. In this regard, we recorded approximately a $0.4 million impairment loss on one of our equity positions in fiscal 2006 and $0.3 million of impairment losses on two equity investments in fiscal 2005. In addition, we own 21 Table of Contents shares in SMIC with a cost basis of approximately $30.3 million and a market value at September 30, 2006 of approximately $35.0 million. The market value of SMIC shares is subject to fluctuation and our carrying value will be subject to adjustments to reflect the current market value. Our shares in SMIC are subject to certain lockup restrictions and therefore all of such shares are not freely tradable. These lockup restrictions generally lapse at the rate of 15% of our pre-offering shares every 180 days following SMIC’s IPO which occurred in March 2004. Thus, all of our shares in SMIC have been freely tradable only since February 2007. Through September 30, 2006, these lockup restrictions impacted our ability to sell the locked up portion of our SMIC shares. Changes in securities laws and regulations are increasing our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have required changes to some of our accounting and corporate governance practices, including the report on our internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These rules and regulations have increased our accounting, legal and other costs, and have made some activities more difficult, time consuming and/or costly. In particular, complying with the internal control requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has resulted in increased internal efforts, significantly higher fees from our independent registered public accounting firm and significantly higher fees from third party contractors. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. We may experience difficulties and increased expenses in complying with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending September 30, 2005, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management and also contains a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. Public Company Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. We concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective and our auditors concurred with such assessment at September 30, 2006. A key element of Section 404 compliance involves an analysis of management information systems (MIS). We are in the process of implementing a new worldwide MIS system and we are continuing to use our current systems. Although we are working to improve such system, there are some Section 404 challenges with the current systems at ICSI and there can be no assurance that such system issues will not result in a significant deficiency or material weakness under applicable accounting standards. If in the future we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies 22 Table of Contents formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, with the adoption of SFAS 123R, we now record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants for all stock options unvested at and granted after October 1, 2005. This accounting pronouncement has and is expected to continue to negatively impact our financial results. Technology companies generally, and our company specifically, rely on stock options as a major component of our employee compensation packages. Because we are required to expense options, we may be less likely to sustain profitability or we may have to decrease or eliminate option grants. Decreasing or eliminating option grants may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We depend on our ability to attract and retain our key technical and management personnel. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key technical and management personnel. Several of our important manufacturing and other subcontractor relationships are based on personal relationships between our senior executive officers and such parties. In particular, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has long-term relationships with our key foundries. If we were to lose the services of any key executives, it may negatively impact the related business relationships since we have no long-term contractual agreements with such parties. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel, particularly experienced circuit designers and process engineers. The competition for such employees is intense. We have no employment contracts or key person life insurance policies with or for any of our employees. The loss of the service of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. Our stock price is expected to continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and is expected to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • general conditions or cyclicality in the semiconductor industry or the end markets that we serve; • new or revised earnings estimates or guidance by us or industry analysts; • comments or recommendations issued by analysts who follow us, our competitors or the semiconductor industry; • aggregate valuations and movement of stocks in the broader semiconductor industry; • announcements of new products, strategic relationships or acquisitions by us or our competitors; • increases or decreases in available wafer capacity; • governmental regulations, trade laws and import duties; • announcements related to future or existing litigation involving us or any of our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • additions or departures of senior management; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents Foundry capacity can be limited, and we may be required to enter into costly arrangements to secure foundry capacity. If we are not able to obtain additional foundry capacity as required, our relationships with our customers would be harmed and our future sales would be adversely impacted. In order to secure foundry capacity, we have entered into in the past, and may enter into in the future, various arrangements with suppliers, which could include: • purchases of equity or debt securities in foundries; • joint ventures; • process development relationships with foundries; • contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended periods; • increased price for wafers; • option payments or other prepayments to foundries; and • nonrefundable deposits with, or loans to, foundries in exchange for capacity commitments. We may not be able to make any such arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on terms favorable to us. Once we make commitments to secure foundry capacity, we may incur significant financial penalties if we subsequently determine that we are not able to utilize all of that capacity. Such penalties may be substantial and could harm our financial results. Our foundries may experience lower than expected yields which could adversely affect our business. The manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Production yields and device reliability can be affected by a large number of factors. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, our outside foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields and device reliability problems, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and changes in such foundry’s processing steps. There can be no assurance that our foundries will not experience lower than expected manufacturing yields or device reliability problems in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations and many of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. Losses and interruptions could also be caused by earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters. Terrorist attacks, threats of further attacks, acts of war and threats of war may negatively impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price. Terrorist acts, conflicts or wars, as well as future events occurring in response or connection to them, including future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the U.S. or its allies (such as the war in Iraq), conflict between China and Taiwan, or trade disruptions impacting our 24 Table of Contents domestic or foreign suppliers or our customers, may impact our operations and may, among other things, cause delays or losses in the delivery of wafers or other products to us and decreased sales of our products. More generally, these events have affected, and are expected to continue to affect, the general economy and customer demand for products sold by our customers. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenues and costs, which in turn may result in increased volatility in our common stock price and a decline in the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Matters None. 