Item 1A. Risk Factors We have incurred significant losses in certain recent periods, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We incurred losses of $37.9 million in fiscal 2005, which included inventory write-downs of $13.9 million, charges of $11.7 million related to our equity interest in ICSI, charges on impairment of goodwill and investments of $4.7 million and charges for in-process R&D of $2.8 million. Though we were profitable in the first three quarters of fiscal 2004, we incurred a loss of $15.6 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, which included an inventory write-down of $12.1 million. We incurred losses in the ten consecutive quarters ended September 30, 2003 totaling $124.0 million. We expect to incur a loss in the December 2005 quarter and may incur losses in subsequent quarters. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability on a quarterly or fiscal year 12 Table of Contents basis in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including the need for future inventory write-downs, our ability to increase net sales, maintain or expand gross margins, introduce new products on a timely basis, secure sufficient wafer fabrication capacity and control operating expenses. Adverse developments with respect to these or other factors could result in quarterly or annual operating losses in the future. Our financial statements consolidate the results of ICSI effective May 1, 2005 and fluctuations in ICSI’s results will also impact our results. We may encounter difficulties in integrating ICSI into ISSI. On January 25, 2005, we announced our intent to acquire the remaining 71% of ICSI that we did not then own. In the nine months ended September 30, 2005, we purchased additional shares of ICSI for approximately $52.5 million, increasing our ownership percentage to approximately 83% at September 30, 2005. We intend to acquire substantially all of the remaining outstanding shares of ICSI for cash of approximately $16 million. Our financial results for fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 through the period ended April 30, 2005 reflect accounting for ICSI on the equity basis and include our percentage share of the results of ICSI’s operations. Effective May 1, 2005, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we began consolidating the financial results of ICSI with our own results. As a result, our statement of operations is impacted by the financial results of ICSI and the minority interest is reflected in the minority interest in net loss of consolidated subsidiary. Our acquisition of ICSI requires combining two employee teams in Taiwan: ICSI and ISSI-Taiwan. We may not be able to retain the individual employees that we believe are key contributors if they decide to leave us. Further, we are now in the process of streamlining our operations because duplications exist as a result of the acquisition. We may encounter operational problems that could impact planning, on-time-delivery, product quality, customer relations or other problems resulting from difficulties in combining the operations. Such problems could result in lower revenue or increased expenses. Furthermore, we could be subject to charges for impairment if ICSI’s business materially declines. Furthermore, the costs of the combined operations may be higher than anticipated and the revenues of the combined operations may be lower than expected. There is no assurance that ICSI will contribute positively to our business or operating results. Our operating results are expected to continue to fluctuate and may not meet our financial guidance or published analyst forecasts. This may cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. Our future quarterly and annual operating results are subject to fluctuations due to a wide variety of factors, including: • the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry; • declines in average selling prices of our products; • inventory write-downs for lower of cost or market or excess and obsolete; • excess inventory levels at our customers; • decreases in the demand for our products; • oversupply of memory products in the market; • our ability to successfully integrate the operations of ICSI; • our ability to control or reduce our operating expenses; • shortages in foundry, assembly or test capacity; • disruption in the supply of wafers, assembly or test services; • changes in our product mix which could reduce our gross margins; • cancellation of existing orders or the failure to secure new orders; • our failure to introduce new products and to implement technologies on a timely basis; • market acceptance of ours and our customers’ products; 13 Table of Contents • economic slowness and low end-user demand; • our failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields at our suppliers; • our failure to deliver products to customers on a timely basis; • the timing of significant orders; • increased expenses associated with new product introductions, masks or process changes; • the ability of customers to make payments to us; and • the commencement of, or developments with respect to, any litigation or future antidumping proceedings. Our sales depend on DRAM and SRAM products and reduced demand for these products or a decline in average selling prices could harm our business. In fiscal 2005, approximately 88% of our net sales were derived from the sale of DRAM and SRAM products, which are subject to unit volume fluctuations and declines in average selling prices that could harm our business. For example, in fiscal 2004, we experienced a sequential decline in revenue from $58.1 million in our June 2004 quarter to $31.1 million in our September 2004 quarter. This decline was a result of a decrease in unit shipments of our products due to lower demand for electronic products that use our devices, as well as a decline in the average selling prices of our products. We may not be able to offset any future price declines by higher volumes or by higher prices on newer products. Historically, average selling prices for semiconductor memory products have declined, and we expect that average selling prices for our products will decline in the future. Our ability to maintain or increase revenues will depend upon our ability to increase unit sales volume of existing products and introduce and sell new products that compensate for the anticipated declines in the average selling prices of our existing products. Any future downturn in the markets we serve would harm our business and financial results. Substantially all of our products are incorporated into products for the digital consumer electronics, networking, mobile communications and automotive electronics markets. Historically, these markets have experienced cyclical depressed business conditions, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, a decline in general economic conditions or due to adverse supply and demand conditions in such markets. For example, our sales declined significantly in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2004 due to an oversupply of DRAM devices in the market and a general softness in SRAM demand. Industry downturns have resulted in reduced demand and declining average selling prices for our products which adversely affected our business. We expect that our industry will remain cyclical, but are unable to predict when any upturn or downturn will occur or how long it will last. Shifts in industry-wide capacity may cause our results to fluctuate. These shifts may occur quickly with little or no advance notice. Such shifts have resulted in significant inventory write-downs. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is subject to significant downturns resulting from excess capacity, overproduction, reduced demand or technological obsolescence. Shifts in industry-wide capacity from shortages to oversupply or from oversupply to shortages may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results. These shifts in industry conditions can occur quickly with little or no advance notice to us. Adverse changes in industry conditions are likely to result in a decline in average selling prices and the stated value of inventory. In fiscal 2005, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, we recorded inventory write-downs of $13.9 million, $17.3 million and $4.1 million, respectively. The inventory write-downs primarily related to valuing our inventory at the lower-of-cost-or-market, and to a lesser extent, adjusting our inventory valuation for certain excess and obsolete products. 14 Table of Contents We write down to zero carrying value of inventory on hand in excess of six months’ historical sales volumes to cover estimated excess and obsolete exposures, unless adjustments are made based on management’s judgments for newer products, end of life products or planned inventory increases. In making such judgments to write down inventory, management takes into account the product life cycles which can range from six to 30 months, the stage in the life cycle of the product, the impact of competitors’ announcements and product introductions on our products. We believe that six months is an appropriate period because it is difficult to accurately forecast for a specific product beyond this time frame due to the potential introduction of products by competitors, technology obsolescence or fluctuations in demand. Future additional inventory write-downs may occur due to lower of cost or market accounting, excess inventory or inventory obsolescence. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers, our business will be harmed. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers from our current suppliers or any alternative sources in a timely manner, our business will be harmed. Our principal manufacturing relationships are with SMIC, TSMC, Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing, Powerchip Semiconductor and ProMOS Technologies. Each of our wafer foundries also supplies wafers to other semiconductor companies, including certain of our competitors or for their own account. Although we are allocated specific wafer capacity from our suppliers, we may not be able to obtain such capacity in periods of tight supply. If any of our suppliers experience manufacturing failures or yield shortfalls, choose to prioritize capacity for other uses, or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, we may not be able to obtain enough wafers to meet the market demand for our products which would adversely affect our revenues. Once a product is in production at a particular foundry, it is time consuming and costly to have such product manufactured at a different foundry. In addition, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for existing or new products in a timely manner and we cannot be certain that other manufacturing sources would be able to deliver an adequate supply of wafers to us. Our gross margins may decline even in periods of increasing revenue. Our gross margin is affected by a variety of factors, including our mix of products sold, average selling prices for our products and cost of wafers. Even when our revenues are increasing, our gross margin may be adversely affected if such increased revenue is from products with lower margins or declining average selling prices. During periods of strong demand, wafer capacity is likely to be in short supply and we will likely have to pay higher prices for wafers, which would adversely affect our gross margin unless we are able to increase our product prices to offset such costs. To maintain our gross margins when average selling prices are declining, we must introduce new products with higher margins or reduce our cost per unit. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase unit sales volumes, introduce and sell new products or reduce our cost per unit. We may encounter difficulties in effectively integrating newly acquired businesses. From time to time, we intend to acquire other companies that we believe to be complementary to our business. Acquisitions may result in use of our cash resources, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the possible impairment of goodwill, which could harm our profitability. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • higher than estimated acquisition expenses; • difficulties in successfully assimilating the operations, technologies and personnel of the acquired company; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks of entering markets in which we have no, or limited, direct prior experience; • the risk that the markets for acquired products do not develop as expected; and 15 Table of Contents • the potential loss of key employees and customers as a result of the acquisition. In this regard, in fiscal 2005, we increased our ownership in Signia to approximately 68% of the outstanding shares. The cost of this additional investment was approximately $8.1 million in cash. We may encounter difficulties in effectively working with Signia. In addition, we could be subject to charges for impairment if Signia’s business materially declines. For the period ending September 30, 2005, we incurred an impairment charge of $4.4 million related to the goodwill acquired with Signia. There is no assurance that Signia or any future acquisitions will contribute positively to our business or operating results. We rely on third-party contractors to assemble and test our products and our failure to successfully manage our relationships with these contractors could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We rely on third-party contractors located in Asia to assemble and test our products. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on these third-party contractors, including: • reduced control over product quality; • potential price increases; • reduced control over delivery schedules; • capacity shortages; • their inability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; • absence of long-term agreements; • limited warranties on products supplied to us; and • general risks related to conducting business internationally. If any of these risks are realized, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected until our subcontractor is able to remedy the problem or until we are able to secure an alternative subcontractor. The loss of a significant customer or a reduction in orders from such a customer could adversely affect our operating results. As sales to our customers are executed pursuant to purchase orders and no purchasing contracts typically exist, our customers can cease doing business with us at any time. For example, during the September 2004 quarter, we experienced cancelled or reduced orders from some of our larger customers that adversely impacted our operating results. We may not be able to retain our key customers, such customers may cancel or reschedule orders, and in the event of canceled orders, such orders may not be replaced by other sales. In addition, sales to any particular customer may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and such fluctuating sales could harm our business and financial results. We have significant international sales and operations and risks related to our international activities could harm our operating results. In fiscal 2005, approximately 15% of our net sales was attributable to shipments in the U.S., 9% was attributable to shipments in Europe and 75% was attributable to shipments in Asia. In fiscal 2004, approximately 13% of our net sales was attributable to shipments in the U.S., 11% was attributable to shipments in Europe and 75% was attributable to shipments in Asia. In fiscal 2003, approximately 13% of our net sales was attributable to shipments in the U.S., 10% was attributable to shipments in Europe and 77% was attributable to shipments in Asia. We anticipate that sales to international sites will continue to represent a significant percentage of our net sales. In addition, all of our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors are in Taiwan, China and Singapore and a substantial majority of our employees are located outside of the U.S. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including: • global economic conditions, particularly in Taiwan and China; • duties, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; • foreign currency fluctuations; • changes in trade policy and regulatory requirements; • transportation delays; • the burdens of complying with foreign laws; • imposition of foreign currency controls; • language barriers; • difficulties in hiring experienced engineers in countries such as China; • difficulties in collecting foreign accounts receivable; • travel or other restrictions related to public health issues such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS); • political instability, including any changes in relations between China and Taiwan; and • earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our revenues and business would be harmed if we are not able to successfully develop, introduce and sell new products and develop and implement new manufacturing technologies in a timely manner. We operate in highly competitive, quickly changing markets which are characterized by rapid obsolescence of existing products. As a result, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that our customers choose to buy in significant quantities. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner or if our customers’ products do not achieve commercial success, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. The design and introduction of new products is challenging as such products typically incorporate more functions and operate at faster speeds than prior products. Increasing complexity generally requires smaller features on a chip. This makes developing new generations of products substantially more difficult than prior generations. Further, new products may not work properly in our customers’ applications. If we are unable to design, introduce, market and sell new products successfully, our business and financial results would be seriously harmed. Our products are complex and could contain defects, which could reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. We develop complex and evolving products. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in existing or new products. This could result in a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects also may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, may divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, and could harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers or could lessen market acceptance of our products. Our customers could also seek and obtain damages from us for their losses. From time to time, we have been involved in disputes regarding product warranty issues. Although we seek to limit our liability, a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and could be costly to defend. 17 Table of Contents Potential intellectual property claims and litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and could invalidate our proprietary rights. In the semiconductor industry, it is not unusual for companies to receive notices alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of others. We have been, and from time-to-time expect to be, notified of claims that we may be infringing patents, maskwork rights or copyrights owned by third-parties. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents that we are alleged to be infringing. Licenses may not be offered and the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license under a key patent or intellectual property right from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of the products utilizing the invention or to attempt to develop non-infringing products, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we may become involved in protracted litigation regarding the alleged infringement by us of third-party intellectual property rights or litigation to assert and protect our patents or other intellectual property rights. Any litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters could result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources, which could harm our business. We may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, which would negatively impact our ability to compete. We believe that the protection of our intellectual proprietary rights will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the U.S. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries, including countries in which we design and sell our products. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of our pending applications nor can we be certain that any issued patents would protect or benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged and declared invalid or unenforceable. We also cannot be certain that others will not develop our unpatented proprietary technology or effective competing technologies on their own. We have acquired equity positions for strategic reasons in other companies which may significantly decrease in value. Over the last several years, we have acquired equity positions for strategic reasons in other technology companies and we may make similar equity purchases in the future. At September 30, 2005, our strategic investments in non-marketable securities totaled $4.7 million. These equity securities may not increase in value and there is the possibility that they could decrease in value over time, even to the point of becoming completely worthless. These equity securities are tested for impairment on a recurring basis and any reductions in the carrying value would lower our profitability. In this regard, we recorded approximately $0.3 million impairment losses on two of our equity positions in fiscal 2005. In addition, we recorded approximately $0.3 million and $1.3 million in impairment losses during fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, respectively. In addition, we own shares in SMIC with a cost basis of approximately $30.3 million and a market value at September 30, 2005 of approximately $46.4 million. The market value of SMIC shares is subject to fluctuation and our carrying value will be subject to adjustments to reflect the current market value. Our shares in SMIC are subject to certain lockup restrictions and therefore all of such shares are not freely tradable. These lockup restrictions generally lapse at the rate of 15% of the Company’s pre-offering shares every 180 days following 18 Table of Contents SMIC’s IPO which occurred in March 2004. Thus, all of our shares in SMIC will be freely tradable in February 2007. As a result of these lockup restrictions and potential fluctuations in SMIC’s stock price, we may be unable to realize the market value at September 30, 2005. Due to the potential value of our strategic investments, we could be determined to be an investment company and, if such a determination were made, we would become subject to significant regulation that would adversely affect our business. We are a fabless semiconductor company engaged in the design and marketing of high performance integrated circuits. We have acquired non-controlling equity positions in SMIC and other companies for strategic, commercial reasons relating to our primary business. Most of our equity positions are in privately held entities that do not have a readily determinable market value. However, the shares we hold in SMIC are publicly traded on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. These securities have significant value and may increase in value in the future. In addition, our equity positions could be considered to be “investment securities” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“1940 Act”), raising a question of whether we are an investment company required to register and be regulated under the 1940 Act. We believe that we are primarily engaged in the semiconductor business and that any such securities we own are ancillary and strategically related to our semiconductor business. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are an investment company. If a court or the Securities and Exchange Commission disagrees with this interpretation, we may be required to either dispose of a portion of the securities we own in SMIC and other companies to comply with the 1940 Act or register under the 1940 Act. If we choose to dispose of an additional portion of our securities in SMIC, our ability to secure access to wafer capacity from SMIC may be adversely impacted. If we choose to register as an investment company, we will become subject to significant regulation under the 1940 Act which would materially adversely affect our ability to operate as a semiconductor company. Recent changes in securities laws and regulations are increasing our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have required, and will require, changes to some of our accounting and corporate governance practices, including the report on our internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 contained in this report on Form 10-K. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming and/or costly. In particular, complying with the internal control requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 has resulted in increased internal efforts, significantly higher fees from our independent accounting firm and significantly higher fees from third party contractors. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. We may experience difficulties and increased expenses in complying with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending September 30, 2005, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management and also contains a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. Public Company Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. 19 Table of Contents Although we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective and our auditors concurred with such assessment at September 30, 2005, if in the future we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued changes to US GAAP that will require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants for all awards unvested at and granted after October 1, 2005. This regulation will negatively impact our financial results. Technology companies generally, and our company specifically, rely on stock options as a major component of our employee compensation packages. Because we are required to expense options, we may be less likely to sustain profitability or we may have to decrease or eliminate option grants. Decreasing or eliminating option grants may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We depend on our ability to attract and retain our key technical and management personnel. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key technical and management personnel. Several of our important manufacturing and other subcontractor relationships are based on personal relationships between our senior executive officers and such parties. In particular, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has long-term relationships with our key foundries. If we were to lose the services of any key executives, it may negatively impact the related business relationships since we have no long-term contractual agreements with such parties. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel, particularly experienced circuit designers and process engineers. The competition for such employees is intense. We have no employment contracts or key person life insurance policies with or for any of our employees. The loss of the service of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. Our stock price is expected to be continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and is expected to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • general conditions or cyclicality in the semiconductor industry or the end markets that we serve; • new or revised earnings estimates or guidance by us or industry analysts; • comments or recommendations issued by analysts who follow us, our competitors or the semiconductor industry; • aggregate valuations and movement of stocks in the broader semiconductor industry; • announcements of new products, strategic relationships or acquisitions by us or our competitors; • increases or decreases in available wafer capacity; • governmental regulations, trade laws and import duties; • announcements related to future or existing litigation involving us or any of our competitors; 20 Table of Contents • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • additions or departures of senior management; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Foundry capacity can be limited, and we may be required to enter into costly arrangements to secure foundry capacity. If we are not able to obtain additional foundry capacity as required, our relationships with our customers would be harmed and our future sales would be adversely impacted. In order to secure foundry capacity, we have entered into in the past, and may enter into in the future, various arrangements with suppliers, which could include: • purchases of equity or debt securities in foundries; • joint ventures; • process development relationships with foundries; • contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended periods; • increased price for wafers; • option payments or other prepayments to foundries; and • nonrefundable deposits with, or loans to, foundries in exchange for capacity commitments. We may not be able to make any such arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on terms favorable to us. Once we make commitments to secure foundry capacity, we may incur significant financial penalties if we subsequently determine that we are not able to utilize all of that capacity. Such penalties may be substantial and could harm our financial results. Our foundries may experience lower than expected yields which could adversely effect our business. The manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Production yields and device reliability can be affected by a large number of factors. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, our outside foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields and device reliability problems, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and changes in such foundry’s processing steps. There can be no assurance that our foundries will not experience lower than expected manufacturing yields or device reliability problems in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Strong competition in the semiconductor memory market may harm our business. The semiconductor memory market is intensely competitive and has been characterized by an oversupply of product, price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and heightened foreign and domestic competition. Many of our competitors offer broader product lines and have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. In particular, a competitor with a materially smaller die size and lower cost could dramatically gain market share in a short period of time. We may not be able to compete successfully against any of these competitors. Our ability to compete successfully in the memory market depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including: • the pricing of our products; 21 Table of Contents • the supply and cost of wafers; • product design, functionality, performance and reliability; • successful and timely product development; • the performance of our competitors and their pricing policies; • our ability to successfully integrate the operations of ICSI; • wafer manufacturing over or under capacity; • real or perceived imbalances in supply and demand for our products; • the rate at which OEM customers incorporate our products into their systems; • the success of our customers’ products and end-user demand; • access to advanced process technologies at competitive prices; • achievement of acceptable yields of functional die; • the capacity of our third-party contractors to assemble and test our products; • the gain or loss of significant customers; and • the nature of our competitors and general economic conditions. In addition, we are vulnerable to technology advances utilized by competitors to manufacture higher performance or lower cost products. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future as to any of these factors. Our failure to compete successfully in these or other areas could harm our business and financial results. Terrorist attacks, threats of further attacks, acts of war and threats of war may negatively impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price. Terrorist acts, conflicts or wars, as well as future events occurring in response or connection to them, including future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the U.S. or its allies (such as the war in Iraq), conflict between China and Taiwan, or trade disruptions impacting our domestic or foreign suppliers or our customers, may impact our operations and may, among other things, cause delays or losses in the delivery of wafers or other products to us and decreased sales of our products. More generally, these events have affected, and are expected to continue to affect, the general economy and customer demand for products sold by our customers. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenues and costs, which in turn may result in increased volatility in our common stock price and a decline in the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Matters None. 