Item 1A. Risk Factors There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and, if we are unable to find suitable strategic alternatives or restructure our outstanding indebtedness on a consensual basis, we will be required to seek protection under the federal bankruptcy laws. As of March 27, 2009, we had $367.8 million in principal amount of debt (excluding debt discounts) maturing on or before June 15, 2009. If we are unable to refinance or extend that debt before its maturity, or if that debt is accelerated due to our default, and our lenders require immediate repayment, we will not be able to repay them. Our $150 million revolving credit facility and our term loan, with an outstanding balance of $99.25 million, are each scheduled to mature on April 9, 2009. In addition, our Senior Subordinated Notes, which have a face value of $154.7 million, mature on June 15, 2009; however, the maturity of the Senior Subordinated Notes may be accelerated by the holders if we fail to repay our revolving credit facility and term loan when due. 5 Table of Contents Our independent, registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our financial statements that states that the financial statements were prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern and further states that our recurring losses, stockholders’ deficit and inability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations as they come due and sustain our operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unsuccessful in refinancing or extending the term of our revolving credit facility, term loan and the Senior Subordinated Notes, our ability to continue as a going concern would be doubtful and we likely would be required to seek protection under the federal bankruptcy laws. In addition, it is possible that creditors could file an involuntary petition in bankruptcy against us. Even if we were successful in pursuing a negotiated restructuring of our outstanding debt and equity, we might be required to implement the restructuring through a proceeding under the federal bankruptcy laws. There is no assurance that the terms of any refinanced indebtedness would be commercially reasonable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and reclassification of recorded asset amounts or amounts and reclassification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be deemed to be unable to continue as a going concern. If we file for bankruptcy protection our business and operations will be subject to certain additional risks. A bankruptcy filing by or against us would subject our business to various risks, including the following: • A bankruptcy filing by or against us may adversely affect our business prospects and our ability to operate during the reorganization process; • Coordinating a bankruptcy filing and operating under protection of the bankruptcy court would involve significant costs, including expenses of legal counsel and other professional advisors; • We may have difficulty continuing to obtain and maintain contracts necessary to continue our operations at affordable rates with competitive terms; • Transactions by us outside the ordinary course of business would be subject to the prior approval of the court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities; • We may not be able to obtain court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to motions made in the reorganization cases; • We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and employees during the process of reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees; • There can be no assurance as to our ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations; • There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization that are acceptable to the bankruptcy court and our creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest; • The value of our common stock could be reduced to zero as result of a bankruptcy filing; and • Certain of our customers and vendors may be reluctant to continue to transact business with us as a result of our bankruptcy filing. We may not have sufficient cash to maintain our operations. Due to weather, the non-residential construction industry is seasonal in most of North America. Demand for our products generally is higher in the spring and summer than in the winter and late fall. As a result, our first quarter net sales and income from operations typically are the lowest of the year. Our business requires us to increase our inventories in advance of the spring and summer construction season, which requires us to invest cash in our inventories. In addition, because of our financial condition, many of our vendors have refused to continue to extend us credit, or have reduced the terms on which they will extend us credit, requiring us to accelerate the payment of cash to our vendors. We also face significantly higher expenditures due in part to payments to our financial and legal advisers, as well as fees and other amounts payable to our lenders and their advisors in connection with amendments to our loan agreements to extend the maturity of their loans. Those 6 Table of Contents amendments also restrict how we utilize our operating cash flows. In addition, our cash inflow also is negatively affected by the downturn in the nonresidential construction industry in which we primarily operate. The lender under our revolving credit facility also has imposed additional limitations on the amount of cash we may borrow under the facility. In the event that the cash available to us from operations and under the revolving credit facility is insufficient to fund our operating expenses, we may be required to file for bankruptcy protection, as described above. Our debt instruments impose significant operating restrictions on us. Our debt agreements, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness; create liens; pay dividends and make distributions in respect of our capital stock; enter into agreements that restrict our subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or make distributions; redeem or repurchase capital stock; make investments or other restricted payments; issue or sell preferred stock of subsidiaries; enter into transactions with affiliates; and consolidate, merge, or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition to these restrictions, we are also restricted in the amount we may borrow under our revolving credit facility by a borrowing base calculation and are required to comply with certain financial covenants under our revolving credit and term loan agreements. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and an adverse development affecting our business could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, alternative or additional sources of financing or reductions in expenditures. We may not be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative or additional financings on terms acceptable to us or at all. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in any of our existing or future debt agreements could result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a default could allow the creditors under the debt agreements to discontinue lending, to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, and to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. If our creditors require immediate repayments, we may not be able to repay them. The non-residential construction industry is cyclical, and we are currently experiencing depressed market conditions for our products and services. The non-residential construction industry is cyclical, and the downturn in the non-residential construction industry has caused a decline in the demand for our products. Our products are primarily used in domestic, non-residential construction; therefore our sales and earnings are strongly influenced by non-residential construction activity, which historically has been cyclical. Most recently, during 2007, 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, the non-residential construction market experienced a downward trend, and as a result, our sales unit volume was negatively affected. Non-residential construction activity can decline because of many other factors we cannot control, such as: • a decline in general economic activity; • a decrease in government spending on construction projects; • an increase in raw material and overall construction costs; • interest rate increases, which make borrowings used to finance construction projects more expensive; and • changes in banking and tax laws, which may reduce incentives to begin construction projects. Demand for some of our products is seasonal, and we may experience significant variations in quarterly performance. Due to weather, the non-residential construction industry is seasonal in most of North America. Demand for our products generally is higher in the spring and summer than in the winter and late fall. As a result, our first quarter net sales and income from operations typically are the lowest of the year. Our net sales and income from operations in the fourth quarter are also generally less than in the second and third quarters. Consequently, our working capital requirements related to accounts receivable and inventories tend to be higher in the second and third quarters and, accordingly, can adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow. Adverse weather, such as unusually prolonged periods of cold, rain, blizzards, hurricanes and other severe weather patterns, could delay or halt construction activity over wide regions of the country. A severe winter could lead to reduced construction activity and thus magnify the seasonal decline in our revenues and earnings during the winter months. Sustained extreme adverse weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 7 Table of Contents We have a history of losses and may experience substantial losses in the future. We cannot assure you that our net operating loss carryforwards will result in any significant tax savings in future periods. Our business has experienced substantial net losses over the past several years and may continue to do so in the future. We reported net losses of $18.0 million in 2006, $6.7 million in 2007, and $12.0 million in 2008, and our stockholders’ deficit was $106.3 million as of December 31, 2008. Our results of operations and cash flows will continue to be affected by events and conditions both within and beyond our control, including competition, economic, financial, business and other conditions. We cannot assure you that our operations will become or remain profitable in the future. As of December 31, 2008, we had deferred tax assets of $55.6 million related to net operating loss carryforwards. We had valuation allowances for these net operating loss carryforwards and other net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2008, as estimated levels of taxable income are less than the amount needed to realize these assets. In addition, the use of net operating loss carryforwards may be limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Section 382 imposes limitations on a company’s ability to use net operating loss carryforwards if a company experiences a more-than-50-percent ownership change over a three-year testing period. Some of the restructuring alternatives we are evaluating would cause a more-than-50-percent ownership change. As a result, our ability to use some of our net operating loss carryforwards in future periods may be limited as provided in Section 382. Increased costs of raw materials and energy resources may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Significant variations in the costs, quality and availability of raw materials and energy may negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Steel, in its various forms, is our principal raw material, constituting approximately 30% of our product cost of sales in 2008. Any decrease in our volume of steel purchases could affect our ability to secure volume purchase discounts that we have obtained in the past. In addition, an overall increase in energy costs, including the cost of natural gas and petroleum products, could adversely impact our overall operating costs in the form of higher raw material, utilities, and freight costs. We typically do not enter into forward contracts to hedge commodity price risks that we face. Even though our costs may increase, our customers may not accept corresponding price increases for our products, or the prices for our products may decline. Our ability to achieve acceptable margins is principally dependent on managing our cost structure and managing changes in raw materials prices, which fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control. If the prices of our products decline, or if our raw material costs increase, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and profitability. Losing certain key customers could materially affect our revenues, and continuing consolidation of our customer base could reduce our profit margins. Our top ten customers accounted for 26% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 and our largest customer accounted for 5%, 6%, and 7% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and could also adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow from operating activities. Further, increasing consolidation of our customers may negatively affect our earnings. We believe there is an increasing trend among our distributor customers to consolidate into larger entities. As our customers increase in size and gain market power, they may be able to exert pressure on us to reduce prices or increase price competition by dealing more readily with our competitors. If the consolidation of our customers does result in increased price competition, our sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. Our business may be subject to significant environmental investigation, remediation and compliance costs. Our business and our facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the use, generation, handling, storage, transport and disposal of these materials. Many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. Permits are required for operation of our businesses (particularly air emission permits), and these permits are subject to renewal, modification and, in certain circumstances, revocation. Pursuant to certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of land may be liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of hazardous materials at the property. These laws can often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. Persons who arrange (as defined under these statutes) for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials also may be liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of these substances at the disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them. We may be liable for costs under certain environmental laws even if we did 8 Table of Contents not cause the condition causing such liability. Changes in environmental laws or unexpected investigations could adversely affect our business. Since we own and operate a number of facilities where industrial activities have been historically conducted and because we arrange for the disposal of hazardous materials at many disposal sites, we may incur costs for investigation and remediation, as well as capital costs associated with compliance with these laws. More stringent environmental laws as well as more vigorous enforcement policies or discovery of previously unknown conditions requiring remediation could impose material costs and liabilities on us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our Mexican operations and foreign sourcing relationships are subject to local business risks which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We operate a manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico and purchase finished goods from China and other foreign sources. The success of our operations in Mexico and our foreign sourcing initiatives depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including our inexperience with operating abroad, general economic conditions, restrictions on the repatriation of assets, compliance with foreign laws and standards and political risks. Our Mexican operations and foreign outsourcing relationships are affected directly and indirectly by global regulatory, economic and political conditions, including: • new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions; • export duties or import quotas; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs or other trade barriers; • potential difficulties in staffing and labor disputes; • managing and obtaining support and distribution for local operations; • increased costs of, and availability of, transportation or shipping; • credit risk and financial conditions of local customers and distributors; • potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; • potential imposition of restrictions on investments; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • capital controls; • foreign exchange restrictions and fluctuations; and • local political, economic and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where we do business. Some or all of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our operations or upon our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in the future. The high level of competition in our industry could materially adversely affect our business. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. Many of the markets in which we operate are served by numerous competitors, ranging from multi-regional companies to small, independent businesses with a limited number of locations. We generally compete on the basis of, among other things: price, quality, breadth of product offering, distribution capabilities (including quick delivery times), customer service and expertise. However, the uniformity of products among our competitors results in substantial pressure on pricing and profit margins. As a result of these pricing pressures, we may experience reductions in the profit margins on our sales, or we may be unable to pass any cost increases on to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase the current market share of our products or compete successfully in the future. If competitive pressures were to cause us to reduce our prices, our operating margins may be adversely impacted. If we were to maintain our prices in the face of 9 Table of Contents price reductions by our competitors, our net sales could decline. We may encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are effectively controlled by a major stockholder, whose interests may conflict with yours. Odyssey Investment Partners Fund, LP (“Odyssey”) and its affiliates control the voting of 47.8% of our common stock and, therefore, have the power to control or substantially affect the outcome of matters on which stockholders are entitled to vote. These include the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and possible mergers, corporate control contests and significant corporate transactions. Through their control of our board of directors, Odyssey and its affiliates also have the ability to appoint or replace our senior management, issue additional shares of our common stock or repurchase common stock, declare dividends or take other actions. Our controlling stockholder may make decisions regarding our company and business that are opposed to your interests or with which you disagree. To the extent the interests of our public stockholders are harmed by the actions of our controlling stockholder, the price of our common stock may be harmed. Labor disputes with our employees could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. We depend on our highly trained employees, and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees would adversely affect our business. We could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 25% of our employees were unionized. We are subject to several collective bargaining agreements with employees at our Miamisburg, Ohio; Parsons, Kansas; Elk Grove, Illinois; New Braunfels, Texas; Tremont, Pennsylvania; City of Industry, California; and Aurora, Illinois facilities. These collective bargaining agreements are scheduled to terminate beginning in April 2009 through June 2011, and we cannot offer assurances that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. Any shortage of labor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We depend on our key personnel and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Generally, these employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. In such event, we may not be able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel. Accordingly, it is possible that our business would be materially adversely affected if one or more of these key individuals left. We do not maintain any key-man or similar insurance policies covering any of our senior management or key personnel. The nature of our business involves product liability and construction-related risks that could adversely affect our operating results. Our products are used in various construction projects, and defects in our products could result in claims for personal injury or death and property damage. While we maintain insurance to cover these claims, it is possible that existing or future claims will exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, it is possible that third-party insurance will not continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the construction industry that could result in personal injury or death, work stoppage or serious damage to our equipment or to the property of our customers. To protect ourselves against such casualty and liability risks, we maintain an insurance program. Our deductibles per incident are $500,000 for general liability, $350,000 for workers’ compensation liability and $1,000 for automobile liability. In addition, we maintain a one-time annual deductible of $4.0 million for general liability and $5.0 million for workers’ compensation liability coverage. We maintain outside insurance for such liability in excess of these deductibles. Our deductibles may cause us to incur significant costs. If our insurance premiums or other costs rise significantly in the future, our profitability could be reduced. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your stock at prices equal to or greater than your purchase price. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; 10 Table of Contents • the impending maturity of long term debt; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; • strategic actions by us or our competitors; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • changes in general economic conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; and • sales of common stock by us or our principal stockholders or by members of our management team. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including us. The changes frequently occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. Our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market. Our common stock is currently listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market (“Nasdaq”). We may fail to comply with Nasdaq’s continued listing rules, which require, among other things, that our common stock maintain a minimum bid price per share of $1.00. While Nasdaq has suspended enforcement of its minimum bid price rule, that suspension currently is scheduled to end on April 20, 2009, and there are no assurances that Nasdaq will extend the suspension beyond that date. If the suspension ends and we fail to comply with the minimum bid price rule and are unable to cure the failure within the period provided in Nasdaq’s rules, Nasdaq might delist our common stock. Delisting likely would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price for our common stock might become more volatile. Delisting also might make it more difficult for us to raise equity capital. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including, but not limited to, the following: • our board of directors is classified into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered three-year term; • only our board of directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; • we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • our stockholders have only limited rights to amend our by-laws; and • we require advance notice for stockholder proposals. These provisions could discourage proxy contests, make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions and may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. Any delay or prevention of a change in control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could deprive holders of our common stock of the opportunity to sell their common stock at a price in excess of the prevailing trading price and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 11 Table of Contents 