Item 1A. Risk Factors Cyclicality of construction industry—The construction industry is cyclical, and a continued significant downturn in the construction industry could further decrease our revenues and profits and adversely affect our financial condition. Because our products primarily are used in infrastructure construction and non-residential building construction, our sales and earnings are strongly influenced by construction activity, which historically has been cyclical. Construction activity can decline because of many factors we cannot control, such as: • weakness in the general economy; • a decrease in government spending at the federal and state levels; • interest rate increases; and • changes in banking and tax laws. Substantial leverage—Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and debt service requirements. The following shows certain important credit information as of December 31, 2005: Total long-term indebtedness, including current maturities $369.3 million Shareholders’ deficit $171.3 million Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under outstanding indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 5 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness agreements, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness under the terms of our indebtedness agreements. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could increase. Net losses—Our business has experienced net losses over the past several years. We reported net losses of approximately $17.6 million in 2003, $48.7 million in 2004 and $114.7 million in 2005. Our results of operations will continue to be affected by events and conditions both within and beyond our control, including competition, economic, financial, business and other conditions. Therefore, we cannot offer assurances to you that we will not continue to incur net losses in the future. Price increases and availability—We may not be able to pass on the cost of commodity price increases to our customers. Steel, in its various forms, is our principal raw material, constituting approximately 20% of our cost of sales in 2005. Historically, steel prices have fluctuated, and we faced rapidly rising steel prices in 2004. Any decrease in our volume of steel purchases could affect our ability to secure volume purchase discounts that we have obtained in the past. Additionally, the overall increase in energy costs, including natural gas and petroleum products, has adversely impacted our overall operating costs in the form of higher raw material, utilities, and freight costs. We cannot offer assurances that we will be able to pass these cost increases on to our customers. Weather-related risks—Weather causes our operating results to fluctuate and could adversely affect the demand for our products and decrease our revenues. Our operating results tend to fluctuate from quarter to quarter because, due to weather, the construction industry is seasonal in most of North America, which is where almost all of our sales are made. Demand for our products generally is higher in the spring and summer than in the winter and late fall. As a result, our first quarter net sales typically are the lowest of the year. Our net sales and operating income in the fourth quarter also generally are less than in the second and third quarters. In addition, severe weather could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Adverse weather, such as unusually prolonged periods of cold, rain, blizzards, hurricanes and other severe weather patterns, could delay or halt construction activity over wide regions of the country. For example, a severe winter, such as the 2002-2003 winter, could lead to reduced construction activity and thus magnify the seasonal decline in our revenues and earnings during the winter months. Sustained extreme adverse weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Chemical products competition—We are significantly smaller than some of our construction chemical competitors. In the sale of some construction chemicals, we must compete with a number of national and international companies that are many times larger than we are in terms of total assets and annual revenues. Because our resources are more limited, we may not be able to compete effectively and profitably on a sustained basis in the markets in which those competitors are actively present. Potential exposure to environmental liabilities—We may be liable for costs under certain environmental laws even if we did not cause any environmental problems. Changes in environmental laws or unexpected investigations could adversely affect our business. Our business and our facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, 6 Table of Contents storage and disposal of these materials. Pursuant to certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of land may be liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of hazardous materials at the property. These laws typically impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. Persons who arrange (as defined under these statutes) for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials also may be liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of these substances at the disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws. However, because we own and operate a number of facilities where industrial activities have been historically conducted and because we arrange for the disposal of hazardous materials at many disposal sites, we may incur costs for investigation and remediation, as well as capital costs associated with compliance with these laws. These environmental costs have not been material in the past and are not expected to be material in the future. Nevertheless, more stringent environmental laws as well as more vigorous enforcement policies or discovery of previously unknown conditions requiring remediation could impose material costs and liabilities on us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consolidation of our customers—Increasing consolidation of our customers may negatively affect our earnings. We believe that there is an increasing trend among our distributors to consolidate into larger entities. As our customers increase in size and market power, they may be able to exert pressure on us to reduce prices or create price competition by dealing more readily with our competitors. If the consolidation of our customers does result in increased price competition, our sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. Increased dependence on foreign operations—We operate a manufacturing facility in Reynosa Mexico and have increased our purchasing of raw materials and finished goods from foreign sources. Political and economic conditions in foreign countries could adversely affect us. The success of our operations in Mexico depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including our inexperience with operating abroad, general economic conditions, currency fluctuations, restrictions on the repatriation of assets, compliance with foreign laws and standards and political risks. Product mix profit margins—A change in the mix of products we sell could negatively affect our earnings. Some of our products historically have had narrow profit margins. If the mix of products we sell shifts to include a larger percentage of products with narrow profit margins, our earnings may be negatively affected. Risks associated with acquisitions—We may complete acquisitions that disrupt our business. If we make acquisitions, we could do any of the following, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations: • incur substantial additional debt, which may reduce funds available for operations and future opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and competition; • assume contingent liabilities; or • take substantial charges to write off goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, acquisitions can involve other risks, such as: • difficulty in integrating the acquired operations, products and personnel into our existing business; • costs that are greater than anticipated or cost savings that are less than anticipated; • diversion of management time and attention; and • adverse effects on existing business relationships with our suppliers and customers and the suppliers and customers of the acquired business. 7 Table of Contents Competition—The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive. We compete against some national and many regional rivals. The uniformity of products among competitors results in substantial pressure on pricing and profit margins. As a result of these pricing pressures, we may in the future experience reductions in the profit margins on our sales, or we may be unable to pass any cost increases on to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our current market share of our products or compete successfully in the future. Control by Odyssey—We are controlled by Odyssey Investment Partners, LLC. Odyssey and its co-investors directly or indirectly own 92% of our outstanding common shares and, therefore, have the power, subject to certain exceptions, to control our affairs and policies. They also control the election of directors, the appointment of management, the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions. The directors have authority, subject to the terms of our debt, to issue additional stock, implement stock repurchase programs, declare dividends and make other decisions about our capital stock. The interests of Odyssey and its affiliates could conflict with the interests of our note holders. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of the Odyssey investors, as holders of our equity, might conflict with the interests of our note holder. Affiliates of Odyssey may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though these transactions might involve risks to the holders of our notes. Risks associated with our workforce—We depend on our highly trained employees, and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees would adversely affect our business. We could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 25% of our employees were unionized. We are subject to several collective bargaining agreements with employees at our Miamisburg, Ohio; Parsons, Kansas; Des Plaines, Illinois; New Braunfels, Texas; Tremont, Pennsylvania; Santa Fe Springs, California; City of Industry, California, and Aurora, Illinois facilities. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we cannot offer assurances that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. Any shortage of labor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on key personnel—If we lose our senior management, our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior managers, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain ‘‘key person’’ life insurance on any of our key employees. Restrictive covenants—Our revolving credit facility and our note indentures contain various covenants that limit the discretion of our management in the operation of our business including, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; • enter into guarantees; • issue preferred stock of our subsidiary; • restrict the rights of our subsidiary to make distributions to us; • make certain investments; • create liens to secure debt; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company; • transfer and sell assets; • change the terms of certain of our debt; and • create new subsidiaries. In addition, if we fail to comply with our revolving credit facility, our note indentures, or any other subsequent financing agreements, a default could occur. Such a default could allow the lenders, if the 8 Table of Contents agreements so provide, to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, the lenders could terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 