Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following summarizes material risks that investors should carefully consider before deciding to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. Any of the following risks, if they actually occur, would likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors could lose the money they paid to buy our common stock or not profit from their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are not currently a profitable company. If we continue to incur losses, we will experience negative cash flow, which may hamper our operations, may prevent us from expanding our business and may cause our stock price to decline. We incurred a $5.5 million loss from continuing operations for 2010 and a $4.8 million loss from continuing operations for 2009. We expect to rely on cash on hand, cash generated from our operations and possible future financing activities to fund the cash requirements of our business. If our losses continue, we will experience negative cash flow, which may hamper current operations and may prevent us from investing in and expanding our business. We may be unable to attain, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we do not achieve, sustain or increase profitability, our stock price may decline. Our growth strategy may not result in increased revenues or profitability and implementation of this strategy could adversely affect future results. Our growth strategy includes organic growth of sales and revenues, which may not be enough to reach profitability and may deplete cash reserves without return on investment. Pursuant to our stated business strategy, we intend to grow our business organically by making up-front investments in engineering and inventory in strategic technologies and products, focusing on sales to further increase our backlog and revenues, and ramping up manufacturing to meet the increased demand of our backlog and other sales. We may encounter difficulties caused by a number of factors, some of which are out of our control, including operational or personnel issues, our competitors may be more successful than we technologically or in sales efforts, delays in obtaining (or failure to obtain) needed parts, supplies, or third-party technology, global recession concerns, and access to credit by our customers, our suppliers, or ourselves. We are using cash reserves to make an up-front investment in engineering and inventory. We may miscalculate the appropriate technologies or products for such investment or the investment may not yield improved products and sales as anticipated. Our competition may make similar investments with greater success. If we fail to develop significant sales of products based on this investment or otherwise, it will negatively impact our business, our ability to become profitable, and results of operations. We would also expect such failure to cause fluctuations or decreases in our common stock price. Our merger, acquisition and strategic alliance strategy may (a) cause dilution to our stockholders, use substantial amounts of cash, or increase our outstanding debt, (b) may result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise materially adversely affect our results of operations, or (c) result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. Pursuant to our stated business strategy, we are evaluating and pursuing acquisition and merger opportunities to enhance the critical mass of our existing operations and may involve expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings or expand our market coverage. 9 Table of Contents While there are a number of companies in our industry to consider as acquisition or merger targets, we may not be able to identify suitable targets that will meet our strategic growth plan at appropriate valuations and that are for sale, we may find material issues in the due diligence process, we may not be able to agree on valuation or negotiate acceptable terms or we may not close a transaction (even if we did agree to terms) due to many reasons, some of which would be out of our control. Acquisitions typically require a significant amount of time and attention from senior management of the acquiring company. Time spent by our management on a transaction would significantly impact their ability to devote time and attention to running the business and executing on the internal growth strategy described above. Such distraction could cause the Company to fail to grow sales, revenues or meet its backlog orders. Any acquisition or merger by the Company would require one or both of a cash payment or issuance of stock as consideration. In the event of a cash payment, the Company may have to use its cash reserves or increase its outstanding debt either to pay for the acquisition or as working capital. It is also possible that the Company may acquire the debt of the target in the transaction. An issuance of stock could be dilutive to the Company’s stockholders and may be significant due to the currently low common stock price and depending on the size of the acquisition. Depending on the circumstances, we may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities, which could also be dilutive to the Company’s stockholders. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Because the Company is no longer subject to the NYSE Arca listing requirements, the issuance of a large block of stock in any acquisition or capital-raising transaction may not require stockholder approval. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks, and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company’s technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us or to leave the Company soon after closing. These challenges may limit the benefit we anticipated to achieve from the transaction and could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the companies we have historically acquired. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. There are no assurances that we will be able to consummate any acquisition or merger transaction, that we will not negatively impact our organic growth strategy or operations results if we do, or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from any such transaction. 10 Table of Contents We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting structure, which, until remedied, may cause errors in our financial statements that could require restatements of our financial statements and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We have identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Management has concluded that · we did not effectively implement comprehensive entity-level internal controls; · we did not maintain effective controls over changes to critical financial reporting applications and over access to these applications and related data; and · we did not maintain a sufficient level of information technology personnel to execute general computing controls over our information technology structure, and that the foregoing represented material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements and in our disclosure that could require restatements. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and in our disclosure, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We have implemented efforts to remediate these material weaknesses, which are discussed in detail under Item 9A. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, it is possible that we may identify further significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also materially adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding disclosure controls and procedures and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could cause us to fail in meeting our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, any or all of which could lead to a decline in our stock price. 11 Table of Contents Because of the Company’s currently low common stock price, the Company could be a target for a hostile takeover at a depressed value. Because of the Company’s current common stock price, aggregate market capitalization and potential market value of its assets, and its annual revenue, the Company may be an attractive target to a hostile takeover at a depressed value. Such price could be at a premium to the market price at the time of the transaction and still be significantly below the purchase price paid by most stockholders. Although the Company has certain anti-takeover measures in place, the Company does not have a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, in place. The lack of this particular anti-takeover measure could make a change in control of our Company easier to accomplish. If a takeover attempt occurred, it might cause distractions for our management and our board of directors and might otherwise prevent us from executing on our strategic plans, preserving the value of the Company for creditors and stockholders and growing the Company. In addition, a successful takeover attempt might result in a change of the Company’s management and directors. We rely heavily on our management, and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our success is highly dependent upon the continued services of key members of our management, including Carmine T. Oliva, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Graham Jefferies, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Brandi Festa, our Director of Finance and Administration and Principal Accounting Officer. Mr. Oliva co-founded EEC and has developed personal contacts and other skills that we rely upon in connection with our financing, acquisition and general business strategies. Mr. Jefferies is a long-time employee of EMRISE who we have relied upon in connection with our acquisitions and operations in England and France and who fulfills significant operational responsibilities in connection with our foreign and domestic operations. Ms. Festa heads up our finance department and is responsible for the accounting function and regular reporting to the SEC. The loss of Mr. Oliva, Mr. Jefferies, Ms. Festa, or one or more other key members of management could adversely affect us. Although we have entered into employment or severance agreements with each of our executive officers, those agreements do not guarantee continued employment of these individuals. We maintain key-man life insurance on Messrs. Oliva and Jefferies. However, this insurance covers termination due to death and not due to any other potential reasons for their employment termination. Even if this insurance can be continued in full effect and a claim paid, the coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for the loss of the services of Messrs. Oliva or Jefferies. The global financial crisis and global economic recession · has had and may continue to have significant negative effects on our customers and our suppliers; · has had and may continue to have significant negative effects on our access to credit and our ability to raise capital; · may prevent us from accurately forecasting demand for our product; · may increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable; or · may increase the risk that we cannot sell inventory that is on hand, resulting in excess inventory levels, and may therefore affect our business, market share, results of operations, and financial condition. The global financial crisis — which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economic recession may be prolonged — has had and may continue to have a significant negative effect on our business and operating results. The potential effects of the current global financial crisis and recession are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. The economic crisis and recession has affected and may continue to affect our direct and indirect customers’ access to capital or willingness to spend capital on our products, and/or their levels of cash liquidity or willingness to pay for products that they will order or have already ordered from us. The effect of the current economic conditions on our customers may therefore lead to decreased demand, including order delays or cancellations, which in turn may result in lower revenue and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Likewise, the current global financial crisis and recession may negatively affect our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventories and production levels and could cause them to raise prices or lower production levels, or result in their ceasing operations. The challenges that our suppliers may face in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses may lead to our inability to obtain the materials we use to manufacture our products. Indeed, we have observed a trend among our suppliers to have decreased inventory and therefore longer lead times in obtaining parts, supplies and other goods. These actions could cause us to have longer lead times in producing products for delivery to our customers, reductions in our revenue, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current economic recession and related market instability has made it difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, particularly in our communications equipment segment. If, as a result, we produce excess products, our inventory carrying costs will increase and result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, due to the forecasting difficulty caused by the unstable economic conditions, we may be unable to satisfy demand for our products, which may in turn result in a loss of business opportunities and market share. We finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. While we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we could suffer significant losses if our customers are unable or unwilling to pay us. As global economic conditions continue or worsen, there is an increasing risk of significant losses of accounts receivable that may have a negative impact on our financial results. Our defense and aerospace programs are highly dependent on economic and political factors which are outside of our control. Changes in defense budgets in countries around the world and/or changes in priorities on such spending could materially adversely affect our business. We sell our commercial and military electronic devices primarily to OEMs, including manufacturers of aerospace and defense systems and industrial instruments. We are highly dependent on defense budgets to utilize our products in various electronic warfare applications. Changes in defense budgets and/or changes in priorities of defense budgets may reduce or redirect defense spending. If defense spending is reduced or redirected, it may affect our current contracts as well as our ability to procure additional defense contracts, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to fulfill backlog orders due to circumstances involving us or one or more of our suppliers or customers, our anticipated results of operations will suffer. As of December 31, 2010, we had $27.1 million in backlog orders for our products, which is historically high for the Company. Backlog orders represent revenue that we anticipate recognizing in the future, as evidenced by purchase orders and other purchase commitments received from customers, but on which work has not yet been initiated or with respect to which work is currently in progress. Our backlog orders are due, in large part, to the long lead-times associated with our electronic device products, which products generally are custom built to order. We may encounter difficulties in fulfilling these orders and commitments, which could lead to failing to deliver them in a timely manner. We may not ultimately recognize as revenue the amounts reflected as backlog. Factors that could affect our ability to fulfill backlog orders include difficulty we may experience in obtaining raw materials or sub-assemblies from suppliers, whether due to obsolescence, production difficulties on the part of suppliers, including the longer lead times we have recently seen with many suppliers, or customer-induced delays and product holds. Our anticipated results of operations and cash flows will suffer to the extent we are unable to fulfill backlog orders within the timeframes we establish, particularly if delays in fulfilling backlog orders cause our customers to reduce or cancel their orders. Analysts and investors are likely to view us negatively if we fail to recognize as revenue the amounts reflected as backlog, which could lead to a decrease in our common stock price. 13 Table of Contents We may not sustain these backlog amounts in the future, particularly if we are not successful in continuing to grow our sales or if our investment in technologies and products or acquisitions fail to translate into increased sales. Our lack of long-term purchase orders or commitments may materially adversely affect our business. During 2010, the sales of electronic devices accounted for approximately 60% of our total net sales, and the sales of communications equipment and related services accounted for approximately 40% of our total net sales. In some cases we have long-term contracts with our electronic devices and communications equipment customers that cover the general terms and conditions of our relationships with them and can include long-term purchase orders or commitments. Typically our customers issue purchase orders requesting the quantities of products they desire to purchase from us, and if we are able and willing to fill those orders, then we fill them under the terms of the contracts. Accordingly, we cannot rely on long-term purchase orders or commitments to protect us from the negative financial effects of reduced demand for our products that could result from a general economic downturn, from changes in the electronic devices and communications equipment industries, from the introduction by others of new or improved technology, from an unanticipated shift in the needs of our customers, or from other causes. The sales cycles of many of our products are lengthy, exposing us to the risks of delays, foregone orders and fluctuations in operating results. Sales of many of our products depend upon potential customers’ internal approval and contracting procedures, procurement practices, and testing and acceptance processes, all of which require a significant amount of time. As a result of these and related factors, the sales cycle of many of our products, especially for large customers, typically ranges from six to twelve months. Lengthy sales cycles subject us to risks of delays, foregone orders and fluctuations in operating results. Coupled with the lack of long-term purchase orders or commitments described above, our sales revenues can fluctuate from period to period. The unpredictability of our quarterly and annual operating results may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. Sometimes these factors can cause more prolonged periods of increased or decreased operating results, measured in quarters or years. The cyclical nature of the communications equipment business due to the budgetary cycle of many of our key customers in this segment has had and will likely continue to have, for the foreseeable future, an effect on our quarterly operating results. Companies that utilize our communication equipment products generally obtain approval for their annual budgets during the first quarter of each calendar year. If a company’s annual budget is not approved early in the calendar year or is insufficient to cover its desired purchases for the entire calendar year, then we are unable to sell products to the company during the period of the delay or shortfall. In addition, these budgets historically tend to vary significantly year by year, depending on a variety of factors, including overall economic conditions. A significant reduction in any one customer’s or group of customer’s budgets could reduce our overall sales, profits and cash flows in the future. Our electronic devices sales are often made in conjunction with large military or commercial aerospace contracts. The timing of required deliveries under these contracts can be delayed based on issues related to the overall contract, which can cause delays in our shipment schedules, revenue recognition, profits and cash flows. In periods between completion of one long term contract and 14 Table of Contents commencement of sales under a new contract, our revenues could be reduced. The impact of these periods between contracts can last for months, quarters or, occasionally, years. Quarter-to-quarter fluctuations may also result from the uneven pace of technological innovation, the development of products responding to these technological innovations by us and our competitors, our customers’ acceptance of these products and innovations, the varied degree of price, product and technological competition and our customers’ and competitors’ responses to these changes. Due to these and other factors, including changes in general economic conditions, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful in predicting future performance. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may fluctuate or decline. Most of our competitors have greater resources than we do. In order to compete successfully, we must keep pace with our competitors in anticipating and responding to the rapid changes involving the electronic devices and communications equipment industries. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with technological developments, respond to the growth in the electronic devices and communications equipment markets in which we compete, encompass evolving customer requirements, and provide a broad range of products and achieve market acceptance of our products. Most of our existing and potential competitors have larger technical staffs, more established and larger marketing and sales organizations and significantly greater financial resources than we do. Our lack of resources relative to our competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements or to experience significant delays in developing or introducing new products and services. These failures or delays could reduce our competitiveness, revenues, profit margins or market share, cash flow and stock price. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. When we acquire a business, we assign estimated values to certain intangible assets and we also record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. Guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) under the FASB Accounting Standards Codification™ (“Codification”) provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives. The Codification provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. This guidance requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually at year end. As part of our 2010 and 2009 annual test for impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets, we noted no events of impairment. In 2009, as a result of the sale of our RO Operations, we recorded a non-cash charge for the impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles of $0.9 million and amortized intangible assets of $0.5 million as a charge to loss from discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of operations, which amounts reflect the write down of all of the intangible assets of the RO Operations. Any future impairment, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized which, in turn, may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. 15 Table of Contents Due to our international operating units, we are exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. These risks are enhanced due to the sales of assets in the U.S. in 2010. Sales by our foreign business units accounted for 81.2% and 83.4% of our net sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Foreign currency exchange rates have, and are expected to continue to have, a significant impact on our results of operations. We undertake various sales and marketing activities through our facilities in England and France. Heightened security from terrorist attacks in the U.S. and abroad and the increasing risk of extended international military conflicts may materially adversely impact our international sales. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · import and export license requirements and restrictions of the U.S. and each other country in which we operate; · political, social and economic instability; · exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; · nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; · repatriation of profits; · trade and travel restrictions; · the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; · burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · foreign technical standards; · changes in taxation and tariffs; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and · difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition. Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. Many of the factors described above, particularly currency exchange rates, have an impact on our financial results and/or on our liquidity and working capital position, which can be negative and can be material. If our products fail to comply with evolving government and industry standards and regulations, we may have difficulty selling our products and/or we may incur significant warranty liabilities associated with existing products. We design our products to comply with a significant number of industry standards and regulations, some of which are evolving as new technologies are deployed. Our products must comply with various regulations defined by the FCC and Underwriters Laboratories, the American National Standards Institute, among others, as well as industry standards such as those established by Telcordia Technologies, Inc. (communications), Federal Aviation Authority (aerospace) and Boeing, among others. Internationally, our products must comply with standards established by the European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization, the European Committee for Standardization, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, and telecommunications authorities in various countries as well as with recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union, Airbus and various civil aviation authorities, among others. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving standards could negatively affect our ability to manufacture and/or sell our products in the future and/or may result in significant warranty liability for noncompliance on existing products. 16 Table of Contents Financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are prepared using the relevant foreign currency that must be converted into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, exchange rate fluctuations have historically and may in the future materially adversely affect our reported results of operations. These risks may be magnified due to the sales of assets in the U.S. in 2010. Our subsidiaries in England and France prepare their financial statements in the relevant local foreign currency. In order to be included in our consolidated financial statements, the balance sheets are converted, at the then current exchange rate, into U.S. dollars, and the statements of operations are converted using weighted average exchange rates for the applicable period. Fluctuations of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar have materially affected and may in the future materially affect our consolidated financial statements. Sales of our products and services from these subsidiaries outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 81.2% and 84.3% of our net sales for 2010 and 2009, respectively. We have at times used derivatives to manage foreign currency rate risk for certain sales shipped from England. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. Net foreign exchange translation gains and losses included in other income and expense in our consolidated statements of operations resulted in a $21,000 gain for 2010 and a $278,000 loss for 2009. Because we believe that proprietary rights are material to our success, misappropriation of these rights could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Our future success is highly dependent on proprietary technology, particularly in our communications equipment business. However, we do not hold any patents and we currently rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights in this area. Our management believes that because of the rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which we operate, the legal intellectual property protection for our products is a less significant factor in our success than the knowledge, abilities and experience of our employees, the frequency of our product enhancements, the effectiveness of our marketing activities and the timeliness and quality of our support services. Consequently, we rely to a great extent on trade secret protection for much of our technology. However, there can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors or customers will not independently develop comparable or superior technologies or obtain unauthorized access to our proprietary technology, which can be difficult and expensive to monitor and enforce. Our financial condition would be materially adversely affected if we were to lose our competitive position due to our inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights as our technology evolves. We continue to have outstanding debt owed to our former principal lender, to the Former Shareholders of ACC and under three separate financing arrangements. Some of this debt carries high interest rates, and some of it comes due within the next 18 to 30 months. In August 2010, we significantly paid down the debt owed to our former principal lender, but still owe $1 million principal amount that matures on August 31, 2012. The interest rate on this debt is 12.5% and will increase to 15.5% on August 31, 2011 if not paid in full. We also paid a significant amount of the debt owed to the Former Shareholders of ACC that was owed in connection with our purchase of ACC, but we still owe $2.8 million in principal amount that matures on August 31, 2013. We have an approximate aggregate amount of $6.6 million of credit available to us under three separate financing arrangements for our UK, French and U.S. operations. The cost of carrying these debt amounts affects our profitability and will increase significantly if we do not pay the PEM portion of the debt by August 31, 2012. If we are unable to grow the Company and become profitable so that we have available cash or additional assets and access to credit by the time the PEM and Former Shareholder debts come due, we may have to consider the future sale of assets or sell equity to raise the capital needed to pay these debts. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The Company voluntarily delisted from the NYSE Arca and its common stock is now traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, which has much less stringent governance rules and listing requirements. The Company’s common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Investors and customers may perceive this change as a negative development, which could affect the common stock price, and could in some cases influence whether a customer buys its products from the Company or one of its competitors. It is possible that the liquidity and ability to trade the Company’s common stock could be impacted. The OTC Bulletin Board does not have the same kind of governance controls and listing requirements as do the NYSE and NASDAQ. While the Company intends to continue good corporate governance practices, it is no longer required to do so in many cases. Our common stock price has been volatile, which has resulted in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and could result in further losses or litigation against us. The market prices of securities of technology-based companies have been and will likely continue to be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past. During 2010, the high and low closing sale prices of a share of our common stock were $1.10 and $0.47, respectively. Our stock price has exhibited volatility and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, the market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: · our success or failure to execute on our business strategy; · whether the Company can become profitable and whether it can sustain profitability; · announcements of potential or consummated acquisition or merger transactions; · additions or departures of key personnel; · foreign currency translations gains or losses; · fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results and whether such results meet investor expectations; · changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; · general global economic weakness; · economic conditions specific to the electronic devices or communications equipment industries; · announcements by us or our competitors of new or enhanced products, technologies or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · delays in our introduction of new products or technological innovations or problems in the functioning of these new products or innovations; · third parties’ infringement of our intellectual property rights, or our potential infringement of another party’s intellectual property rights; · changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; · regulatory developments; · future sales of our common stock or other securities; and · perception and confidence of investors regarding future prospects for the Company. The price at which you purchase shares of common stock may not be indicative of the price of our stock that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources and could have a significant impact on profitability, future cash flows and stock price. 18 Table of Contents Future sales of shares of our common stock by our stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of March 22, 2011, we had outstanding 10.7 million shares of common stock and outstanding options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 0.6 million shares of common stock. A substantial number of these shares are eligible for public resale. Sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 