Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following summarizes material risks that investors should carefully consider before deciding to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. Any of the following risks, if they actually occur, would likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors could lose the money they paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We are a highly leveraged company and we have approximately $12.3 million outstanding debt as of March 31, 2010 owed to our senior lender under both term loans and a revolving credit facility that matures on June 30, 2010. Pursuant to a January 2010 amendment to this credit facility, we are obligated to sell certain assets and to achieve certain sale related milestones by certain dates leading up to the maturity date. If we are unable to sell the assets, meet these milestones or pay the debt, each on a timely basis or at all, the Company will be materially adversely affected. Under our amended Credit Agreement with GVEC Resource IV Inc. (the or our “Lender”), which is an affiliate of Private Equity Management Group LLC, the outstanding principal balance owed to the Lender for the term loans at March 31, 2010 was $7.9 million (plus an additional $0.3 million in accrued interest and fees) and the balance owed on the revolving line of credit at March 31, 2010 was approximately $4.1 million, which fluctuates daily depending upon cash collections and advances. The Credit Agreement, as amended from time to time, is referred to herein as the Credit Facility. We must make bi-weekly principal payments of $75,000 through maturity on June 30, 2010. We agreed to sell certain assets, and will retain a percentage of the proceeds of some of such sales for working capital and will use the remaining proceeds to pay down the obligations owed to the Lender, and to achieve certain key milestone events related to the sales process. There can be no assurance that net proceeds from the sales of assets contemplated by the amended Credit Facility will be sufficient to pay the obligations owed to Lender in full. Many factors could affect our ability to complete such sales, could affect the terms, conditions or consideration to be paid for such assets and the timeliness of closing such transactions, many of which are described in these risk factors and many of which are out of the control of the Company. If we are unable to sell assets, if the net proceeds of these sales are inadequate, or if the related milestones are not achieved on a timely basis, or if some other event of default were to occur, the Lender could accelerate the debt and exercise its rights and remedies under the Credit Facility, which could include a foreclosure on our assets before the contemplated asset sales could be completed. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully sell the contemplated assets in the agreed time frames and/or at prices sufficient to satisfy the debt owed to the Lender, if at all. Even if the Company does successfully sell the contemplated assets and pay the obligations owed to the Lender in full, the ongoing revenues of the Company will be substantially reduced which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s operations and financial condition. In addition, the Lender has the current right to appoint an outside observer to review our books and records and business operations. While the agreement contains certain limitations designed to minimize disruption to our business operations, the appointment of such an observer is likely to cause management and the finance staff to divert significant time and effort to meeting the observer’s requests for information and is likely to limit management’s ability to focus on the operation of the Company and the sale of assets, which could have a materially adverse impact on our compliance with the Credit Facility obligations, the results of our operations and our financial position. Actions taken by the Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) in 2009 against an affiliate of our Lender may adversely affect our ability to continue to borrow funds under the terms of our revolving credit facility with our Lender. If our Lender limits or terminates our ability to borrow funds under the revolving credit facility, our cash position and our ability to continue day to day operations would be adversely affected, almost immediately. 9 Table of Contents Actions taken by the Commission in 2009 against Private Equity Management Group, Inc., an affiliate of our Lender and our Lender, including an order granted in April 2009 by a federal court freezing all assets of Private Equity Management Group, Inc. and its affiliates, including our Lender. At the request of the Commission, the federal court also appointed a temporary receiver of our Lender’s agent and of our Lender. The Company continues to be vulnerable to the Lender’s difficult position with regard to the Commission, frozen assets and the Receiver. As a result, we may be further adversely affected. If, for any reason, the receiver were to limit or terminate our ability to continue to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility, our cash position and our ability to continue day to day operations would be adversely affected, almost immediately. If that were to occur, we would be required to seek additional and/or replacement financing, which if we were not able to secure such replacement financing on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us would have an immediate and material adverse effect on our operations and/or ability to conduct business after that date. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding under our Credit Facility with our Lender which has had negative consequences for us. In the event of a default under our credit facility, our Lender may limit future availability under our revolving line of credit and/or may accelerate payment of all principal balances under this facility. Any of these conditions would have a material adverse effect on our operations and /or our ability to conduct business after that date. We currently use a significant portion of our operating income for debt service. Our leverage has made us vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, the downturn in the operating performance of our business and the decline in general economic conditions. This amount of indebtedness could have further negative consequences for us, including: · the risks outlined in the preceding risk factors; · limitations on our ability to obtain replacement financing or other financing in the future; · much of our cash flow is dedicated to debt service obligations and is unavailable for other purposes; · limitations on our flexibility to deal with changing economic, business and competitive conditions; and · vulnerability to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or decline in general economic conditions. In addition, failure to comply with the covenants and asset sale related milestones in the agreements governing the terms of our credit facility could result in an event of default. In the event of a default and continuation of a default, our Lender may limit future availability under our revolving line of credit and/or accelerate the payment of all principal balances and accrued interest requiring us to pay the entire indebtedness under our credit facility outstanding on that date. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default, our Lender may also elect to increase the interest rate applicable to the outstanding balance of our term loans by four percentage points above the per annum interest rate that would otherwise be applicable. Lender has additional remedies available to it such as appointment of an outside observer or forcing the Company into a bankruptcy. Any of these conditions would have a material adverse effect on our operations and/or ability to conduct business after that date. 10 Table of Contents Our planned asset sales may materially adversely affect our current operations, our future financial results, our future ability to meet cash flow demands and operate profitably. The values and terms of such sales may not be as favorable to us as we anticipate which may result in additional asset sales. We have begun the process of selling a significant portion of our assets as required by the Credit Facility. As discussed further in Note 22 “Subsequent Events” in our December 31, 2009 financial statements, these assets contributed approximately $20 million of net sales or 37% of the Company’s net sales from continuing operations and operating income of approximately $3 million of the Company’s total operating income from continuing operations of $1.4 million for 2009. The preparation for such sales, meeting of due diligence demands of potential buyers, preparation and negotiation of deal documentation and otherwise driving such sales to conclusion is a time consuming process that creates a significant distraction of management and other key team members from the operations of the business. Certain key officers or other team members may not be cooperative in the sale process or may leave our employ altogether, making a successful asset sale more difficult or impossible to achieve. The successful close of such asset sales may require third party consents, governmental permits, stockholder approvals or other consents, assignments or approvals that are out of our control and therefore may delay or prevent a successful closing. Stockholders, or the market generally, may not approve of the value at which assets might be sold, or the assets we sell which may cause our stock price to decrease or lead to litigation. We may sell additional assets if the net proceeds are insufficient to pay down debt or for other reasons unrelated to the debt. If we do successfully sell the assets we are obligated to sell and/or other of our assets, the size, tenor and strategy of the Company is likely to be materially different, the revenues, profits, cash flows and other financial measures, may be materially adversely affected, and, even though our debt may be substantially reduced, the viability of the Company as a going concern may be uncertain. We rely heavily on our management, and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our success is highly dependent upon the continued services of key members of our management, including Carmine T. Oliva, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Graham Jefferies, our President and Chief Operating Officer and John Donovan, our Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Oliva co-founded EEC and has developed personal contacts and other skills that we rely upon in connection with our financing, acquisition and general business strategies. Mr. Jefferies is a long-time employee of EMRISE who we have relied upon in connection with our acquisitions and operations in England and France and who fulfills significant operational responsibilities in connection with our foreign and domestic operations. Mr. Donovan provides us with extensive experience in financial reporting and compliance matters. The loss of Mr. Oliva, Mr. Jefferies or Mr. Donovan, or one or more other key members of management could adversely affect us. Although we have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers, those agreements do not guarantee continued employment of these individuals. We maintain key-man life insurance on Mr. Oliva and Mr. Jefferies. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain this insurance in effect or that the coverage will be sufficient to compensate us for the loss of the services of Mr. Oliva or Mr. Jefferies. Based on our current position with regard to our Lender and the sales of assets we have undertaken, our dependence on Messrs. Oliva, Jefferies and Donovan, in addition to other key team members within the company and within certain divisions has significantly increased, particularly as it relates to the Company’s obligation to achieve asset sale related milestones as agreed upon with the Lender. Therefore, we are in the process of evaluating possible compensatory packages to these persons to incentivize them to remain in the service of the Company, cooperate fully with the sales process and work towards successful completion of the Company’s goals. There can be no assurance that these measures, once finalized and approved, will be successful in retaining and properly incentivizing these persons. 11 Table of Contents We incurred a net loss from continuing operations in 2009 and 2008 and may incur losses in the future. If we continue to incur losses, we will experience negative cash flow, which may hamper our operations, may prevent us from expanding our business and may cause our stock price to decline. We incurred a $2.9 million net loss from continuing operations for 2009 and a $10 million net loss from continuing operations for 2008, including a write off of intangible and goodwill assets of $6.6 million. We expect to rely on cash on hand, cash generated from our operations, cash generated from the sale of assets and existing and possible future financing activities to fund the cash requirements of our business. If our net losses continue, we will experience negative cash flow, which may hamper current operations and may prevent us from expanding our business. We may be unable to attain, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we do not achieve, sustain or increase profitability, our stock price may decline. There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to restructure our indebtedness, raise additional capital or sell assets in a timely manner, we may voluntarily seek, or be forced to seek, protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or be forced into liquidation or to substantially restructure or alter our business operations and/or debt obligations. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to (i) sell assets and meet milestones as required under our credit facility, (ii) pay off our credit facility prior to its maturity on June 30, 2010, (iii) obtain alternate financing to fund our ongoing operations after June 30, 2010, and (iv) achieve profitable operations. In addition, if we default on the terms of our credit facility, our Lender may limit future availability under the Revolver and/or accelerate the payment of all principal balances and accrued interest requiring us to pay the entire indebtedness under the credit facility. If we (a) are not able to attain, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, (b) are not able to obtain alternate financing prior to June 30, 2010, or (c) default under the terms of the credit facility and our Lender were to limit future availability under the Revolver and/or accelerate the payment of all principal balances and accrued interest requiring us to pay the entire indebtedness under the credit facility, then our ability to continue operations will be materially, adversely affected and we may voluntarily seek, or be forced to seek, protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or be forced into liquidation or to substantially restructure or alter our business operations and/or debt obligations. In addition, due to any or all of the reasons discussed above, we may cease to continue as a going concern. If we cease to continue as a going concern, due to lack of available capital or otherwise, you may lose your entire investment in our company. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting structure, which, until remedied, may cause errors in our financial statements that could require restatements of our financial statements and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We have identified four material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Management has concluded that (i) we did not effectively implement comprehensive entity-level internal controls; (ii) we did not maintain effective controls over changes to critical financial reporting applications and over access to these applications and related data; and (iii) we did not maintain a sufficient level of information technology personnel to execute general computing controls over our information technology structure and (iv) we lack sufficient resources within the accounting department, and that the foregoing represented material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements and in our disclosure that could require restatements. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and in our disclosure, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. 12 Table of Contents Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also materially adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding disclosure controls and procedures and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. We are not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NYSE Arca because our Common Stock is trading at less than $1 per share. While NYSE Arca Regulation staff has allowed us approximately six months to seek to improve our stock price by selling assets and paying down the debt owed to our Lender, we may ultimately be delisted and begin trading on the Over the Counter market. On January 5, 2010, we received notice from the staff of NYSE Arca, Inc. that the Company was no longer in compliance with the minimum $1 per share price required for continued listing on the NYSE Arca under NYSE Arca Equities Rule 5.5(h)(4). We notified the staff of NYSE Regulation of our intent to cure the deficiency by taking specific actions that include selling certain assets and paying outstanding obligations to the Lender by the maturity date of June 30, 2010. Based on its evaluation of the planned actions, NYSE Regulation accepted our request to conduct the planned actions to seek to achieve compliance with NYSE Arca continued listing standards in the time period through approximately June 30, 2010. The Company understands that the NYSE Regulation staff will conduct periodic compliance reviews prior to the expiration of this period to assess the Company’s ability to achieve compliance with the NYSE Arca’s continued listing standards. There are many risks associated with successfully completing the planned actions discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell the assets, at adequate prices or on a timely basis. Even if we are successful in these efforts, there can be no assurance that doing so will have a positive impact on the price of our common stock in a timely manner or at all. In the event that a $1 price per share, or greater, of the Company’s common stock is not attained within the prescribed time period, the NYSE Arca is expected to commence suspension and delisting procedures. If our common stock is delisted from the NYSE Arca, then we would expect to trade on the Over the Counter market, which could have a materially negative impact on the liquidity of our stock and the price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents The current global financial crisis and global economic recession a) has had and may continue to have significant negative effects on our customers and our suppliers b) has had and may continue to have significant negative effects on our access to credit and our ability to raise capital, c) may prevent us from accurately forecasting demand for our product, d) may increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable, or e) may increase the risk that we cannot sell inventory that is on hand resulting in excess inventory levels and may therefore affect our business market share, results of operations, and financial condition. The current global financial crisis - which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economic recession may be prolonged — has had and may continue to have a significant negative effect on our business and operating results. The potential effects of the current global financial crisis and recession are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. The current economic crisis and recession has affected and may continue to affect our direct and indirect customers’ access to capital or willingness to spend capital on our products, and/or their levels of cash liquidity with which or willingness to pay for products that they will order or have already ordered from us. The effect of the current economic conditions on our customers may therefore lead to decreased demand, including order delays or cancellations, which in turn may result in lower revenue and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Likewise, the current global financial crisis and recession may negatively affect our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventories and production levels and could cause them to raise prices or lower production levels, or result in their ceasing operations. The challenges that our suppliers may face in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses may lead to our inability to obtain the materials we use to manufacture our products. These actions could cause reductions in our revenue, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the Company successfully pays the obligations owed to our Lender, the ongoing revenues and profitability of the Company will be substantially reduced as a result of our sale of the contemplated assets of the Company, to satisfy such obligations. This would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, financial condition and ability to continue operations and we may need to secure additional or alternative financing as a result. Failure to secure additional or alternate financing, including a new revolver, if and when needed, would have an adverse effect on our operations and/or ability to do business or could restrict our growth, limit the development of new products, or hinder our ability to fulfill existing or future orders. Moreover, if we are unsuccessful in securing the necessary financing to continue operations, when needed, then we may be forced to seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or be forced into liquidation or substantially restructuring or altering our business operations and/or debt obligations. The current economic recession and related market instability makes it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, particularly in our communications equipment segment. If, as a result we produce excess products, our inventory carrying costs will increase and result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, due to the forecasting difficulty caused by the unstable economic conditions, we may be unable to satisfy demand for our products which may in turn result in a loss of market share. We finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. While we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we could suffer significant losses if our customers are unable or unwilling to pay us. As global economic conditions continue or worsen, there is an increasing risk of significant losses of accounts receivable that may have a negative impact on our financial results. 14 Table of Contents Our defense and aerospace programs are highly dependent on economic and political factors which are outside of our control. Changes in defense budgets in countries around the world and/or changes in priorities on such spending could materially adversely affect our business. We sell our commercial and military electronic devices primarily to OEMs, including manufacturers of aerospace and defense systems and industrial instruments. We are highly dependent on defense budgets to utilize our products in various electronic warfare applications. Changes in defense budgets and/or change in priorities of defense budgets may reduce and/or redirect defense spending. If defense spending is reduced or redirected, it may affect our current contracts as well as our ability to procure additional defense contracts, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our lack of long-term purchase orders or commitments may materially adversely affect our business if demand is reduced. During 2009, the sales of electronic devices accounted for approximately 79% of our total net sales, and the sales of communications equipment and related services accounted for approximately 21% of our total net sales. In some cases we have long-term contracts with our electronic devices and communications equipment customers that cover the general terms and conditions of our relationships with them and can include long-term purchase orders or commitments. However, typically our customers issue purchase orders requesting the quantities of products they desire to purchase from us, and if we are able and willing to fill those orders, then we fill them under the terms of the contracts. Accordingly, we cannot rely on long-term purchase orders or commitments to protect us from the negative financial effects of reduced demand for our products that could result from a general economic downturn, from changes in the electronic devices and communications equipment industries, including the entry of new competitors into these markets, from the introduction by others of new or improved technology, from an unanticipated shift in the needs of our customers, or from other causes. The unpredictability of our quarterly and annual operating results may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. Sometimes these factors can cause more prolonged periods of increased or decreased operating results, measured in quarters or years. The cyclical nature of the communications equipment business due to the budgetary cycle of many of our key customers in this segment has had and will likely continue to have, for the foreseeable future, an effect on our quarterly operating results. Companies that utilize our communication equipment products generally obtain approval for their annual budgets during the first quarter of each calendar year. If a company’s annual budget is not approved early in the calendar year or is insufficient to cover its desired purchases for the entire calendar year, then we are unable to sell products to the company during the period of the delay or shortfall. In addition, these budgets historically tend to vary significantly year by year depending on a variety of factors, including overall economic conditions. A significant reduction in any one customer’s or group of customer’s budgets could severely reduce our overall sales, profits and cash flows in the future. Our electronic devices sales are often made in conjunction with large military or commercial aerospace contracts. The timing of required deliveries under these contracts can be delayed based on issues related to the overall contract, which can cause delays in our shipment schedules, revenue recognition, profits and cash flows. In periods between completion of one long term contract and commencement of sales under a new contract, our revenues will be reduced. In addition, the negative impact of such periods on our bottom line will be greater than the reduction in revenues due to the continued, and relatively constant, cost of overhead. The impact of these periods between contracts can last for months, quarters or, occasionally, years. 15 Table of Contents Quarter-to-quarter fluctuations may also result from the uneven pace of technological innovation, the development of products responding to these technological innovations by us and our competitors, our customers’ acceptance of these products and innovations, the varied degree of price, product and technological competition and our customers’ and competitors’ responses to these changes. Due to these factors and other factors, including changes in general economic conditions, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful in predicting future performance. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may fluctuate or decline. The sales cycles of some of our products are lengthy, exposing us to the risks of delays, foregone orders and fluctuations in operating results. Sales of some of our products depend upon potential customers’ internal approval and contracting procedures, procurement practices, and testing and acceptance processes, all of which require a significant amount of time. As a result of these and related factors, the sales cycle of many of our products, especially for large customers, typically ranges from six to twelve months or more. Lengthy sales cycles subject us to risks of delays, foregone orders and fluctuations in operating results. Most of our competitors have greater resources than we do. In order to compete successfully, we must keep pace with our competitors in anticipating and responding to the rapid changes involving the electronic devices and communications equipment industries. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with technological developments, respond to the growth in the electronic devices and communications equipment markets in which we compete, encompass evolving customer requirements, and to provide a broad range of products and achieve market acceptance of our products. Most of our existing and potential competitors have larger technical staffs, more established and larger marketing and sales organizations and significantly greater financial resources than we do. Our lack of resources relative to our competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements or to experience significant delays in developing or introducing new products and services. These failures or delays could reduce our competitiveness, revenues, profit margins or market share, cash flow and stock price. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we lose ITT Corporation as a customer or if our sales to ITT Corporation were to decline. In the year ended December 31, 2009, sales to ITT Corporation, a customer within our electronic devices segment, accounted for 10% of our total net sales. The loss of or a significant adverse change in our relationship with ITT Corporation or any other major customer could cause a material decrease in our net sales and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result. There can be no assurance that ITT Corporation will continue to be a customer within our electronic devices segment. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. When we acquire a business, we assign estimated values to certain intangible assets and we also record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. For example, in connection with the acquisition of ACC and CCI, we recorded approximately $10.2 million in goodwill and $4.8 million of intangible assets based on the application of purchase accounting. Guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) under the FASB Accounting Standards Codification™ (“Codification”) provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives. The Codification provides 16 Table of Contents specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. This guidance requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. As part of our 2009 annual test for impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets, we noted no events of impairment. However, as a result of the sale of our RO Operations, we recorded a non-cash charge for the impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles of $0.9 million and amortized intangible assets of $0.5 million, which amounts reflect the write down of all of the intangible assets of the RO Operations. As a result of our 2008 annual test for impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets, we recorded a non-cash charge for the impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets of $6.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, which reflects the write down of substantially all of the carrying value of the goodwill and other intangible assets for our communications equipment segment. Any future impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of ACC and CCI, or any other acquisition we may make in the future, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized which, in turn, may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Our acquisition strategy may result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise materially adversely affect our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses, or be dilutive to existing shareholders. Our business strategy may involve additional expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings or expand our market coverage. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks, and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company’s technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us or to leave the employ of the Company soon after closing. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the companies we have historically acquired. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. Depending on the circumstances, we may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing stockholders, which could be significant. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. Due to our international operating units, we are exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. These risks may substantially increase or decrease if we sell assets as we are required to do by our Lender. Sales by our foreign business units accounted for 54.4% and 75.8% of our net sales in 2009 and 2008, respectively. We undertake various sales and marketing activities through our facilities in England and France. Heightened security from terrorist attacks in the U.S. and abroad and the increasing risk of extended international military conflicts may materially adversely impact our international sales and could make our international operations more expensive. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · import and export license requirements and restrictions of the U.S. and each other country in which we operate; · political, social and economic instability; · exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; · natural disasters and public health emergencies; · nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; · trade and travel restrictions; · the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; · burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · foreign technical standards; · changes in taxation and tariffs; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; · difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. Many of the factors described above, particularly currency exchange rates, have an impact on our financial results and/or on our liquidity and working capital position, which can be negative and can be material. If we sell additional assets, as required by our Lender, our percentage of sales generated from foreign units may substantially increase or decrease, thus substantially increasing or decreasing the possible impact of risks discussed in this risk factor. If we are unable to fulfill backlog orders due to circumstances involving us or one or more of our suppliers or customers, our anticipated results of operations will suffer. As of December 31, 2009, we had $28.7 million in backlog orders for our products. Backlog orders represent revenue that we anticipate recognizing in the future, as evidenced by purchase orders and other purchase commitments received from customers, but on which work has not yet been initiated or with respect to which work is currently in progress. Our backlog orders are due, in large part, to the long lead-times associated with our electronic device products, which products generally are custom built to order. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in fulfilling orders and commitments in a timely manner or that we will ultimately recognize as revenue the amounts reflected as backlog. Factors that could affect our ability to fulfill backlog orders include difficulty we may experience in obtaining raw materials or 18 Table of Contents sub-assemblies from suppliers, whether due to obsolescence, production difficulties on the part of suppliers or other causes, or customer-induced delays and product holds. Our anticipated results of operations and cash flows will suffer to the extent we are unable to fulfill backlog orders within the timeframes we establish, particularly if delays in fulfilling backlog orders cause our customers to reduce or cancel their orders. If our products fail to comply with evolving government and industry standards and regulations, we may have difficulty selling our products and/or we may incur significant warranty liabilities associated with existing products. We design our products to comply with a significant number of industry standards and regulations, some of which are evolving as new technologies are deployed. Our products must comply with various regulations defined by the FCC and Underwriters Laboratories, the American National Standards Institute, among others as well as industry standards such as those established by Telcordia Technologies, Inc. (communications), Federal Aviation Authority (aerospace) and Boeing, among others. Internationally, our products must comply with standards established by the European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization, the European Committee for Standardization, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, and telecommunications authorities in various countries as well as with recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union, Airbus and various civil aviation authorities, among others. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving standards could negatively affect our ability to manufacture and/or sell our products in the future and/or may result in significant warranty liability for noncompliance on existing products. Financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are prepared using the relevant foreign currency that must be converted into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, exchange rate fluctuations have historically and may in the future materially adversely affect our reported results of operations. These risks may substantially increase or decrease if we sell assets as we are required by our Lender. Our subsidiaries in England and France prepare their financial statements in the relevant local foreign currency. In order to be included in our consolidated financial statements, the balance sheets are converted, at the then current exchange rate, into U.S. dollars, and the statements of operations are converted using weighted average exchange rates for the applicable period. Fluctuations of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar have materially affected and may in the future materially affect our consolidated financial statements. Our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates has decreased as a result of the acquisition of ACC. Sales of our products and services from these subsidiaries outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 54.4% and 75.8% of our net sales for 2009 and 2008, respectively. We have at times used derivatives to manage foreign currency rate risk for certain sales shipped from England. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. Net foreign exchange translation gains and losses included in other income and expense in our consolidated statements of operations resulted in a $278,000 loss for 2009 and a $269,000 loss for 2008. If we sell additional assets, as required by our Lender, our percentage of sales generated from foreign units may substantially increase or decrease, thus substantially increasing or decreasing the possible impact of risks discussed in this risk factor. Because we believe that proprietary rights are material to our success, misappropriation of these rights could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Our future success is highly dependent on proprietary technology, particularly in our communications equipment business. However, we do not hold any patents and we currently rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights in this area. Our management believes that because of the rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which we operate, the legal intellectual property protection for our products is a less significant factor in our success than the knowledge, abilities and experience of our employees, the frequency of our product enhancements, the effectiveness of our marketing activities and the timeliness and quality of our 19 Table of Contents support services. Consequently, we rely to a great extent on trade secret protection for much of our technology. However, there can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors or customers will not independently develop comparable or superior technologies or obtain unauthorized access to our proprietary technology, which can be difficult and expensive to monitor and enforce. Our financial condition would be materially adversely affected if we were to lose our competitive position due to our inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights as our technology evolves. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price has been volatile, which has resulted in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and could result in further losses or litigation against us. The market prices of securities of technology-based companies have been and will likely continue to be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past. During 2009, the high and low closing sale prices of a share of our common stock were $1.76 and $0.63, respectively. We completed a 1-for-3.75 reverse split of its common stock in November, 2008. Our stock price since the reverse split has exhibited volatility and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, the market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: · announcements related to sales of assets; · actions taken by our Lender or with respect to the Lender by the Commission or the Receiver; · additions or departures of key personnel; · foreign currency translations gains or losses; · fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; · changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; · general global economic weakness; · economic conditions specific to the electronic devices or communications equipment industries; · announcements by us or our competitors of new or enhanced products, technologies or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · delays in our introduction of new products or technological innovations or problems in the functioning of these new products or innovations; · third parties’ infringement of our intellectual property rights; · changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; · regulatory developments; · future sales of our common stock or other securities; and · perception and confidence of investors regarding future prospects for EMRISE. The price at which you purchase shares of common stock may not be indicative of the price of our stock that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources and could have a significant impact on profitability, future cash flows and stock price. If we are delisted from the NYSE Arca, the liquidity of our stock and our stock price could be materially adversely affected. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. 20 Table of Contents As of April 9, 2010, we had outstanding 10.2 million shares of common stock and options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2.5 million shares of common stock. A substantial number of these shares are eligible for public resale. Sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. The Company could be a target for a hostile takeover, which could result in a change of the Company’s management and directors. Because of the Company’s current per share price, aggregate market capitalization and potential market value of its assets, and its annual revenue, the Company may be an attractive target to a hostile takeover at a depressed value. The Company does not have a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, in place. The lack of this particular anti-takeover measure could make a change in control of our Company easier to accomplish. If a takeover attempt occurred, it might cause distractions for our management and our board of directors and might otherwise prevent us from executing on our strategic plans, including the sale of assets and other strategies to pay down debt, preserve the value of the Company for creditors and stockholders and again grow the Company. In addition, a successful takeover attempt might result in a change of the Company’s management and directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 21 Table of Contents 