Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following summarizes material risks that investors should carefully consider before deciding to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. Any of the following risks, if they actually occur, would likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors could lose the money they paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We incurred a net loss in 2008 and 2007 and may incur losses in the future. If we continue to incur losses, we will experience negative cash flow, which may hamper our operations, may prevent us from expanding our business and may cause our stock price to decline. We incurred a $7.4 million net loss for 2008, including a write off of intangible and goodwill assets of $6.6 million, and a $1.9 million net loss for 2007. We expect to rely on cash on hand, cash generated from our operations and existing and future financing activities to fund the cash requirements of our business. If our net losses continue, we will experience negative cash flow, which may hamper current operations and may prevent us from expanding our business. We may be unable to attain, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we do not achieve, sustain or increase profitability, our stock price may decline. The current global financial crisis and uncertainty in global economic conditions may have significant negative effects on our customers and our suppliers and may therefore affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The current global financial crisis - which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period - may have a significant negative effect on our business and operating results. The potential effects of the current global financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. The current economic crisis may affect our direct and indirect customers’ access to capital or willingness to spend capital on our products, and/or their levels of cash liquidity with which or willingness to pay for products that they will order or have already ordered from us. The effect of the current economic conditions on our customers may therefore lead to decreased demand, including order delays or cancellations, which in turn may result in lower revenue and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Likewise, the current global financial crisis may negatively affect our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventories and production levels and could cause them to raise prices or lower production levels, or result in their ceasing operations. The challenges that our suppliers’ may face in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses may lead to our inability to obtain the materials we use to manufacture our products. These actions could cause reductions in our revenue, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents The current global financial crisis and uncertainty in global economic conditions may have significant negative effects on our access to credit and our ability to raise capital. In addition, if our existing credit facility is terminated in 2009 we would incur significant cash and non-cash expenses relating to such termination. If the current global financial crisis adversely affects our lender, our lender may not have the ability to provide us with access to the funds available under our credit facility, resulting in our access to cash and our ability to operate our business being negatively affected. Additionally, the financial market disruption may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit, when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. If our existing credit facility is terminated in 2009 for any reason we would incur cash and non-cash expenses in connection with such termination including early termination fees and a write off of all unamortized debt acquisition costs and unamortized debt discount. The current global financial crisis and uncertainty in global economic conditions could prevent us from accurately forecasting demand for our products which could adversely affect our operating results or market share. The current market instability makes it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, particularly in our communications equipment segment. If, as a result, we produce excess products our inventory carrying costs will increase and result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, due to the forecasting difficulty caused by the unstable economic conditions, we may be unable to satisfy demand for our products which may in turn result in a loss of market share. The current global financial crisis and uncertainty in global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable which would adversely affect our financial results. We finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. While we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we could suffer significant losses if our customers are unable or unwilling to pay us. As global economic conditions worsen, there is an increasing risk of significant losses of accounts receivable that may have a negative impact on our financial results. The new federal administration may reduce and/or redirect certain defense and aerospace programs, which could adversely affect our business. We sell our commercial and military electronic devices primarily to OEMs, including manufacturers of aerospace and defense systems and industrial instruments. In January 2009, a new federal administration took office, and it is widely expected that the new administration may reduce and/or redirect defense spending. If defense spending is reduced or redirected, it may affect our current contracts as well as our ability to procurer additional defense contracts, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding under our credit facility with our senior lender which could have negative consequences for us. In the event of a default under our credit facility, our lender may limit future availability under our revolving line of credit and/or may accelerate payment of all principal balances under this facility. Any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operation and /or our ability to conduct business after that date. We currently use a significant portion of our operating income for debt service. Our leverage could make us vulnerable to an increase in interest rates or a downturn in the operating performance of our business or a decline in general economic conditions. We have approximately $13.1 million in secured debt outstanding as of April 6, 2009. This amount of indebtedness could have negative consequences for us, including: · limitations on our ability to obtain financing in the future; · much of our cash flow will be dedicated to debt service obligations and unavailable for other purposes; · this level of indebtedness may limit our flexibility to deal with changing economic, business and competitive conditions; and · this level of indebtedness could make us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or decline in general economic conditions. In addition, failure to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing the terms of our credit facility could result in an event of default. In the event of a default and continuation of a default, our lender may limit future availability under our revolving line of credit and/or accelerate the payment of all principal balances and accrued interest requiring us to pay the entire indebtedness under our credit facility outstanding on that date. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default, our lender may also elect to increase the interest rate applicable to the outstanding balance of our term loans by four percentage points above the per annum interest rate that would otherwise be applicable. Any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and/or ability to conduct business after that date. The agent of our lender and its president are the subject of a recent article in the Wall Street Journal which, among other things, raises issues surrounding the business practices of the president of our lender’s agent which, in turn, may have an effect on our lender’s ability to continue to provide us with debt financing. On April 15, 2009, the Wall Street Journal published an article which, among other things, raises issues surrounding the business practices of the president of our lender’s agent. The statements made in the article, whether or not true, may have an effect on our lender’s ability to continue to provide us funds under our revolving line of credit. Such an event would have a material adverse effect on our operations and/or our ability to conduct business in the future. Our lack of long-term purchase orders or commitments may adversely affect our business if demand is reduced. During 2008, the sale of electronic devices accounted for approximately 75% of our total net sales, and the sale of communications equipment and related services accounted for approximately 25% of our total net sales. In some cases we have long-term contracts with our electronic devices and communications equipment customers that cover the general terms and conditions of our relationships with them and can include long-term purchase orders or commitments. However, typically our customers issue purchase orders requesting the quantities of products they desire to purchase from us, and if we are able and willing to fill those orders, then we fill them under the terms of the contracts. Accordingly, we cannot rely on long-term purchase orders or commitments to protect us from the negative financial effects of reduced demand for our products that could result from a general economic downturn, from changes in the electronic devices and communications equipment industries, including the entry of new competitors into these markets, from the introduction by others of new or improved technology, from an unanticipated shift in the needs of our customers, or from other causes. 11 Table of Contents We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting structure which until remedied, may cause errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We have identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have identified the following three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting: (i) we did not effectively implement comprehensive entity-level internal controls, (ii) we did not maintain effective controls over changes to critical financial reporting applications and over security access to these applications and related data, and (iii) we did not maintain a sufficient level of information technology personnel to execute general computing controls over our information technology structure. See “Item 9A(T) Controls and Procedures.” Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Vice President Finance and Administration, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. The unpredictability of our quarterly operating results may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. Our operating results from our communications equipment segment tend to be less stable and predictable than our operating results from our electronic devices segment. 12 Table of Contents The cyclical nature of the communications equipment business due to the budgetary cycle of telephone companies has had and will likely continue to have, for the foreseeable future, an effect on our quarterly operating results. Telephone companies generally obtain approval for their annual budgets during the first quarter of each calendar year. If a telephone company’s annual budget is not approved early in the calendar year or is insufficient to cover its desired purchases for the entire calendar year, we are unable to sell products to the telephone company during the period of the delay or shortfall. In addition, these budgets historically tend to vary significantly year by year depending on a variety of factors, including overall economic conditions. A significant reduction in any one customer’s or group of customer’s budgets could severely reduce our overall sales, profits and cash flows in the future. Our electronic devices sales are often made in conjunction with military contracts. The timing of required deliveries under these contracts can be delayed based on issues related to the overall military contract, which can cause delays in our shipment schedules, revenue recognition, profits and cash flows. Quarter-to-quarter fluctuations may also result from the uneven pace of technological innovation, the development of products responding to these technological innovations by us and our competitors, our customers’ acceptance of these products and innovations, the varied degree of price, product and technological competition and our customers’ and competitors’ responses to these changes. Due to these factors and other factors, including changes in general economic conditions, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful in predicting future performance. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may fluctuate or decline. The sales cycles of some of our products are lengthy, exposing us to the risks of delays, foregone orders and fluctuations in operating results. Sales of some of our products depend upon potential customers’ internal approval and contracting procedures, procurement practices, and testing and acceptance processes, all of which involve require a significant amount of time. As a result of these and related factors, the sales cycle of many of our products, especially for large customers, typically ranges from six to twelve months or more. Lengthy sales cycles subject us to risks of delays, foregone orders and fluctuations in operating results. Most of our competitors have greater resources than us. In order to compete successfully, we must keep pace with our competitors in anticipating and responding to the rapid changes involving the electronic devices and communications equipment industries. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with technological developments, respond to the growth in the electronic devices and communications equipment markets in which we compete, encompass evolving customer requirements, and to provide a broad range of products and achieve market acceptance of our products. Most of our existing and potential competitors have larger technical staffs, more established and larger marketing and sales organizations and significantly greater financial resources than we do. Our lack of resources relative to our competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements or to experience significant delays in developing or introducing new products and services. These failures or delays could reduce our competitiveness, revenues, profit margins or market share, cash flow and stock price. We rely heavily on our management, and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our success is highly dependent upon the continued services of key members of our management, including Carmine T. Oliva, our Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Graham Jefferies, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and John Donovan, our Vice President Finance and Administration. Mr. Oliva co-founded EEC and has developed personal contacts and other skills that we rely upon in connection with our financing, acquisition and general business strategies. 13 Table of Contents Mr. Jefferies is a long-time employee of EMRISE who we have relied upon in connection with our acquisitions in England and who fulfills significant operational responsibilities in connection with our foreign and domestic operations. Mr. Donovan provides us with extensive experience in financial reporting and compliance matters. The loss of Mr. Oliva, Mr. Jefferies or Mr. Donovan, or one or more other key members of management could adversely affect us. Although we have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers, those agreements do not guarantee continued employment of these individuals. We maintain key-man life insurance on Mr. Oliva and Mr. Jefferies. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain this insurance in effect or that the coverage will be sufficient to compensate us for the loss of the services of Mr. Oliva or Mr. Jefferies. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. When we acquire a business, we assign estimated values to certain intangible assets and we also record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. For example, in connection with the acquisition of ACC and CCI, we recorded approximately $4.1 million in goodwill and $4.8 million of intangible assets based on the application of purchase accounting. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142 provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS No. 142 provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. As part of our 2008 annual test for impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets, we recorded a non-cash charge for the impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets of $6.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, which reflects the write down of substantially all of the carrying value of the goodwill and other intangible assets for our communications equipment segment. Any future impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of ACC and CCI, or any other acquisition we may make in the future, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized which, in turn, may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Our acquisition strategy may result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses, or be dilutive to existing shareholders. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings or expand our market coverage. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks, and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company’s technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. 14 Table of Contents These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the companies we have historically acquired. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. Depending on the circumstances, we may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. As our international business expands, we are increasingly exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. International sales accounted for 62.0% and 56.7% of our net sales in 2008 and 2007, respectively. We undertake various sales and marketing activities through our facilities in England, France and Japan. We intend to continue to expand our international business activities. Heightened security from terrorist attacks in the U.S. and abroad and the increasing risk of extended international military conflicts may adversely impact our international sales and could make our international operations more expensive. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: · political, social and economic instability; · exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; · natural disasters and public health emergencies; · nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; · trade and travel restrictions; · the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; · burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; · import and export license requirements and restrictions of the U.S. and each other country in which we operate; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · foreign technical standards; · changes in taxation and tariffs; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. 15 Table of Contents Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. If we are unable to fulfill backlog orders due to circumstances involving us or one or more of our suppliers or customers, our anticipated results of operations will suffer. As of December 31, 2008, we had $34.7 million in backlog orders for our products, which amount includes $1.5 million of backlog related to our prior Digitran Operations. Backlog orders represent revenue that we anticipate recognizing in the future, as evidenced by purchase orders and other purchase commitments received from customers, but on which work has not yet been initiated or with respect to which work is currently in progress. Our backlog orders are due, in large part, to the long lead-times associated with our electronic device products, which products generally are custom built to order. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in fulfilling orders and commitments in a timely manner or that we will ultimately recognize as revenue the amounts reflected as backlog. Factors that could affect our ability to fulfill backlog orders include difficulty we may experience in obtaining raw materials or sub-assemblies from suppliers, whether due to obsolescence, production difficulties on the part of suppliers or other causes, or customer-induced delays and product holds. Our anticipated results of operations and cash flows will suffer to the extent we are unable to fulfill backlog orders within the timeframes we establish, particularly if delays in fulfilling backlog orders cause our customers to reduce or cancel their orders. If our products fail to comply with evolving government and industry standards and regulations, we may have difficulty selling our products. We design our products to comply with a significant number of industry standards and regulations, some of which are evolving as new technologies are deployed. Our products must comply with various regulations defined by the FCC and Underwriters Laboratories, the American National Standards Institute, among others as well as industry standards such as those established by Telcordia Technologies, Inc. (communications), Federal Aviation Authority (aerospace) and Boeing. Internationally, our products must comply with standards established by the European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization, the European Committee for Standardization, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, and telecommunications authorities in various countries as well as with recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union, Airbus and various civil aviation authorities, among others. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving standards could negatively affect our ability to manufacture and/or sell our products in the future. Financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are prepared using the relevant foreign currency that must be converted into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our reported results of operations. Our subsidiaries in England and France prepare their financial statements in the relevant local foreign currency. In order to be included in our consolidated financial statements, the balance sheets are converted, at the then current exchange rate, into U.S. dollars, and the statements of operations are converted using weighted average exchange rates for the applicable period. Accordingly, fluctuations of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our consolidated financial statements. Our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates has increased as a result of the growth of our international subsidiaries. Sales of our products and services to customers located outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 62.0% and 56.7% of our net sales for 2008 and 2007, respectively. We use derivatives to manage foreign currency rate risk for certain sales shipped from England. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. Net foreign exchange translation gains and losses included in other income and expense in our consolidated statements of operations resulted in a $269,000 loss for 2008 and a $83,000 gain for 2007. 16 Table of Contents Because we believe that proprietary rights are material to our success, misappropriation of these rights could adversely affect our financial condition. Our future success will be highly dependent on proprietary technology, particularly in our communications equipment business. However, we do not hold any patents and we currently rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights in this area. Our management believes that because of the rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which we operate, the legal intellectual property protection for our products is a less significant factor in our success than the knowledge, abilities and experience of our employees, the frequency of our product enhancements, the effectiveness of our marketing activities and the timeliness and quality of our support services. Consequently, we rely to a great extent on trade secret protection for much of our technology. However, there can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors or customers will not independently develop comparable or superior technologies or obtain unauthorized access to our proprietary technology. Our financial condition would be adversely affected if we were to lose our competitive position due to our inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights as our technology evolves. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. The market prices of securities of technology-based companies have been and will likely continue to be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past. During 2008, the high and low closing sale prices of a share of our common stock were $3.41 and $1.05, respectively, which amount reflects a 1 for 3.75 reverse split of our common stock that we completed in November 2008. Our stock price since the reverse split has exhibited such volatility and may continue to do in the future. In addition, market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: · changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; · general global economic weakness; · economic conditions specific to the electronic devices or communications equipment industries; · announcements by us or our competitors of new or enhanced products, technologies or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · delays in our introduction of new products or technological innovations or problems in the functioning of these new products or innovations; · third parties’ infringement of our intellectual property rights; · changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; · foreign currency translations gains or losses; · regulatory developments; · fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; · additions or departures of key personnel; · future sales of our common stock or other securities; and · perception and confidence of investors regarding future prospects for EMRISE. The price at which you purchase shares of common stock may not be indicative of the price of our stock that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources and could have a significant impact on profitability, future cash flows and stock price. 17 Table of Contents Future sales of shares of our common stock by our stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of April 6, 2009, we had outstanding 10.2 million shares of common stock and options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2.5 million shares of common stock. A substantial number of these shares are eligible for public resale. Sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 