Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following summarizes material risks that investors should carefully consider before deciding to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. Any of the following risks, if they actually occur, would likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors could lose the money they paid to buy our common stock or not profit from their investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our profits in 2013 were small and it is several years since the Company generated significant profits. We need to invest in our business to generate and increase future profits and we need to meet loan repayments that fall due later in 2014. We need to raise new business loans and manage our business effectively to meet the cash demands but this will not necessarily lead to an overall positive cash flow during 2014. If we incur losses, we are likely to experience negative cash flow, which may hamper our operations, may prevent us from expanding our business and may cause our stock price to decline. We generated modest profits of $249,000 from operations in 2013 after sustaining a very small loss in 2012, $2 million loss from continuing operations for 2011 and a $6 million loss in 2010. We expect to rely on cash on hand, cash generated from our operations, existing financing arrangements and a new loan facility to fund the cash requirements of our business and the repayment of the promissory notes. If our profits do not continue grow, we are likely to experience negative cash flow, which may hamper current operations and may prevent us from investing in and expanding our business. We may be unable to attain, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. The Company needs cash to grow and this investment and consequent cash outflow may not result in an immediate or indeed, any increases in profit. If we do not achieve, sustain or increase profitability, our stock price may decline. 9 We owe debt, including promissory notes which fall due for redemption within the next 12 months. At the year-end we had a significant amount of the debt in the form of promissory notes which were originally issued to former shareholders of Advanced Control Components (the “Former Shareholders of ACC”). The principal amount of $2.3 million was due to be paid in 2014. We paid $0.3 million in March 2014 with the final tranches of this principal sum, being $0.3 million due in September 2014 and $1.7 million due for payment in December 2014. Using a combination of existing cash generated from within the business and an additional loan from our principal lender, we redeemed the promissory notes in April 2014. The new borrowings generated net new cash of $1.2 million at a lower rate of interest than we were paying for the promissory notes. During 2013, we were also making annual re-payments of principal of approximately $240,000 to our lead banker in the United Kingdom. As a result of the new loan, the repayments which will be made from operational cash flows have risen to approximately $600,000 per year. We have credit facilities available to us under separate financing arrangements for our UK and French operations. The cost of carrying and servicing this debt affects our profitability. If we are unable to grow the Company and generate additional cash, we will need to seek new finance to ensure we can meet scheduled loan repayments as they come due. If we are unable to do this we may have to consider the future sale of assets or sell equity to raise the capital needed to pay these debts. We rely on our foreign subsidiaries to generate cash to meet Company liabilities. We rely on our foreign subsidiaries to generate profits and cash with which to finance our US operations and repay corporate debt. EMRISE does not have any facility in the United States to generate cash to pay its liabilities beyond dividends and loans from its subsidiaries and management charges imposed on those same companies. In the event that the overseas trading entities were unable to support EMRISE, either through a lack of cash or limitations on cash transfers imposed through bank covenants, loan conditions or tax factors then EMRISE would need to seek funds elsewhere. There is no guarantee that this would be possible. We have limited cash resources which limits investment in new products, people or working capital. We have bank borrowing facilities for each of our subsidiaries which are sufficient to meet our normal levels of activity within those subsidiaries. Our plans anticipate moderate growth but we cannot guarantee that this growth will be self-financing in the short term. New products and new orders require additional working capital and delays in design, production, delivery or payment from customers will put a strain on this working capital which could result in the Company running out of cash. We monitor our cash resources and cash availability against existing bank facilities very carefully but as a small company we do not have the resources to cover the eventuality of a lengthy delay in the working capital cycle. Some of our borrowing facilities are specific to individual subsidiaries and there are limitations, imposed by banking covenants, on the ability to transfer cash between these subsidiaries. In the event that one or more subsidiary requires cash in excess of its borrowing facility to meet its obligations we may be unable to transfer cash to that subsidiary even if the Company as a whole has adequate borrowing facilities Our strategy includes organic growth, which may not result in increased revenues or profitability and may deplete our limited cash reserves without return on investment. We intend to grow our business organically, focusing on sales to further increase our revenues and backlog, and ramping up manufacturing to meet the increased demand. We may encounter difficulties caused by a number of factors, some of which are out of our control, including operational or personnel issues; delays in obtaining (or failure to obtain) required parts, supplies, or third-party technology; global recession concerns; access to credit by our customers, our suppliers, or ourselves; and our competitors may be more successful than we are technologically or in terms of sales generation. We are using cash reserves to make up-front investments in engineering and inventory. We may invest in the wrong technologies or products or the investment may not yield improved products and sales as anticipated. Our competition may make similar investments with greater success. If we fail to develop significant sales of products, it will negatively impact our business, our ability to become profitable, and results of operations. We would also expect such failure to cause fluctuations or decreases in our common stock price. 10 If we are unable to fulfill backlog orders due to circumstances involving us or one or more of our suppliers or customers, our anticipated results of operations will suffer. As of December 31, 2013, we had $25.9 million in backlog orders for our products. This represents approximately 81% of our 2013 annual revenues. Backlog orders represent revenue that we anticipate recognizing in the future, as evidenced by purchase orders and other purchase commitments received from customers, but on which work has not yet been initiated or with respect to which work is currently in progress. Our backlog orders are due, in large part, to the long lead-times associated with our electronic device products, which products generally are custom built to order. We may encounter difficulties in fulfilling these orders and commitments, which could lead to failing to deliver them in a timely manner. We may not ultimately recognize as revenue the amounts reflected as backlog. Factors that could affect our ability to fulfill backlog orders include difficulty we may experience in obtaining raw materials or sub-assemblies from suppliers, whether due to obsolescence, production difficulties on the part of suppliers, including the longer lead times we have recently seen with many suppliers, or customer-induced delays and product holds. If we were required to locate new suppliers or additional sources of supply, we could experience a disruption in our operations or incur additional costs in procuring required materials. Our anticipated results of operations and cash flows will suffer to the extent we are unable to fulfill backlog orders within established timeframes, particularly if delays in fulfilling backlog orders cause our customers to reduce or cancel their orders. Analysts and investors are likely to view us negatively if we fail to recognize as revenue the amounts reflected as backlog, which could lead to a decrease in our common stock price. We may not sustain these backlog amounts in the future, particularly if we are not successful in continuing to grow our sales or if our investment in technologies and products or acquisitions fails to translate into increased sales. The sales cycles of many of our products are lengthy, exposing us to the risks of delays, foregone orders and fluctuations in operating results. Sales of many of our products depend upon potential customers’ internal approval and contracting procedures, procurement practices, and testing and acceptance processes, all of which require a significant amount of time. As a result of these and related factors, the sales cycle of many of our products, especially for large customers, typically ranges from six to 12 months. Lengthy sales cycles subject us to risks of delays, foregone orders and fluctuations in operating results. Coupled with the lack of long-term purchase orders or commitments described above, our sales revenues can fluctuate from period to period and such unpredictability could negatively affect our stock price. The high costs of being a U.S. public registrant places pressure on our cash facilities The Company adopts rigorous procedures in connection with corporate governance, embracing measures that go beyond the minimum standards required by the OTCQB, Delaware State law or our own by-laws. We observe such procedures because we consider this to be in the best interest of our stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers, financiers and shareholders. These measures carry a cost and these costs plus those of maintaining the quotation for our stock relative to the size of our business are high. The Company relies on its subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash to meet their own operating costs in addition to collectively meeting the costs of maintaining a public entity. A shortfall in cash generation by the subsidiaries would restrict the ability of EMRISE to meet its liabilities as they fall due. We rely heavily on our management, and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our success is highly dependent upon the continued services of key members of our management, including Carmine T. Oliva, our Chairman of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) and Chief Executive Officer, and Graham Jefferies, our President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Oliva co-founded Emrise Electronics Corporation (“EEC”) and has developed personal contacts and other skills that we rely upon in connection with our financing, acquisition and general business strategies. Mr. Jefferies is a long-time employee of EMRISE whom we have relied upon in connection with our acquisitions and operations in England and France and who fulfills significant operational responsibilities in connection with our foreign and domestic operations. The loss of Mr. Oliva, Mr. Jefferies or one or more other key members of management could adversely affect us. Although we have entered into employment or severance agreements with each of our executive officers, those agreements do not guarantee continued employment of these individuals. We maintain key-man life insurance on Messrs. Oliva and Jefferies. However, this insurance covers termination due to death and not due to any other potential reasons for their employment termination. Even if this insurance can be continued in full effect and a claim paid, the coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for the loss of the services of Messrs. Oliva or Jefferies. 11 Many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. If we are unable to keep pace with our competitors in anticipating and responding to the rapid changes involving the electronic devices and communications equipment industries, we may not be able to compete successfully with them and thereby possibly causing our stock price to decline. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with technological developments, respond to the growth in the electronic devices and communications equipment markets in which we compete, encompass evolving customer requirements, and provide a broad range of products and achieve market acceptance of our products. Most of our existing and potential competitors have larger technical staffs, more established and larger marketing and sales organizations and significantly greater financial resources than we do. Our lack of resources relative to our competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements or to experience significant delays in developing or introducing new products and services. These failures or delays could reduce our competitiveness, revenues, profit margins or market share, cash flow and stock price. The global financial crisis and fragile global economy: ● has had and may continue to have significant negative effects on our customers and our suppliers; ● has had and may continue to have significant negative effects on our access to credit and our ability to raise capital; ● may prevent us from accurately forecasting demand for our product; ● may increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable; or ● may increase the risk that we cannot sell inventory that is on hand, resulting in excess inventory levels; and may therefore negatively affect our business, market share, results of operations, and financial condition. The uncertainty and lack of confidence in the global economy since global financial crisis - which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economic recession may be prolonged - has had and may continue to have a significant negative effect on our business and operating results. The potential effects of the fragile global economy are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. The economic crisis and recession has affected and may continue to affect our direct and indirect customers’ access to capital or willingness to spend capital on our products, and/or their levels of cash liquidity or willingness to pay for products that they will order or have already ordered from us. The effect of the current economic conditions on our customers may therefore lead to decreased demand, including order delays or cancellations, which in turn may result in lower revenue and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Likewise, the current global economy may negatively affect our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventories and production levels and could cause them to raise prices or lower production levels, or result in their ceasing operations. The challenges that our suppliers may face in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses may lead to our inability to obtain the materials we use to manufacture our products. Indeed, we have observed a trend among our suppliers to have decreased inventory and therefore longer lead times in obtaining parts, supplies and other goods. These actions could cause us to have longer lead times in producing products for delivery to our customers, reductions in our revenue, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current economy and related market instability has made it difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, particularly in our communications equipment segment. If, as a result, we produce excess products, our inventory carrying costs will increase and result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, due to the forecasting difficulty caused by the unstable economic conditions, we may be unable to satisfy demand for our products, which may in turn result in a loss of business opportunities and market share. 12 We finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. While we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we could suffer significant losses if our customers are unable or unwilling to pay us. Our record of losses from being unable to recover accounts receivable has been good but while global economic conditions continue, there is a risk of losses of accounts receivable that may have a negative impact on our financial results. Our defense and aerospace programs are highly dependent on economic and political factors which are outside of our control. Changes in defense budgets in countries around the world and/or changes in priorities on such spending could materially adversely affect our business. We sell our commercial and military electronic devices primarily to OEMs, including manufacturers of aerospace and defense systems and industrial instruments. We are highly dependent on defense budgets to utilize our products in various electronic warfare applications. Changes in defense budgets and/or changes in priorities of defense budgets may reduce or redirect defense spending. If defense spending is reduced or redirected, it may affect our current contracts as well as our ability to procure additional defense contracts, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations, which could negatively affect our business. We undertake various sales and marketing activities through our facilities in England and France. Sales by these foreign business units accounted for 95% our net sales in 2013. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: ● fluctuations in currency exchange rates; ● import and export license requirements and restrictions of the U.S. and each other country in which we operate; ● exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; ● repatriation of profits; ● the imposition or changes to regulations, governmental controls and restrictions; ● burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; ● changes in taxation and tariffs; and ● the reliance of the U.S. business on foreign governments. Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. Many of the factors described above, particularly currency exchange rates, have an impact on our financial results and/or on our liquidity and working capital position, which can be negative and can be material. If our products fail to comply with evolving government and industry standards and regulations, we may have difficulty selling our products and/or we may incur significant warranty liabilities associated with existing products. We design our products to comply with a significant number of industry standards and regulations, some of which are evolving as new technologies are deployed. Our products must comply with various regulations defined by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters Laboratories, the American National Standards Institute, among others, as well as industry standards such as those established by Telcordia Technologies, Inc. (communications), Federal Aviation Authority (aerospace) and The Boeing Company, among others. Internationally, our products must comply with standards established by the European Committee for Electro technical Standardization, the European Committee for Standardization, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, and telecommunications authorities in various countries as well as with recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union, Airbus and various civil aviation authorities, among others. Our products for the military markets are typically tested and require the production of a first article and other prototypes, which are subject to testing to meet specific customer and government regulations. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving standards could negatively affect our ability to manufacture and/or sell our products in the future and/or may result in significant warranty liability for noncompliance on existing products. 13 Financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are prepared using the relevant foreign currency that must be converted into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, exchange rate fluctuations have historically and may in the future materially adversely affect our reported results of operations. Our subsidiaries in England and France prepare their financial statements in the relevant local foreign currency. In order to be included in our consolidated financial statements, the balance sheets are converted, at the then current exchange rate, into U.S. dollars, and the statements of operations are converted using average exchange rates for the applicable period. Fluctuations of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar have materially affected and may in the future materially affect our consolidated financial statements. Sales of our products and services from these subsidiaries outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 95% of our net sales in each of 2013 and 2012. We have at times used derivatives to manage foreign currency rate risk for certain sales shipped from England. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. The magnitude of these gains or losses depends upon movements in the exchange rates of the foreign currencies in which we transact business as compared to the value of the U.S. dollar. During 2013, these currencies included the euro and the British pound sterling. Any future translation gains or losses could be significantly higher or lower than those we recorded for these periods. The relevant rates for 2013 and 2012 were: U.S. Dollar equivalent At December 31, 2013 2012 Year-end rate £ Sterling 1.65 1.62 Euro 1.38 1.32 Average for the year £ Sterling 1.56 1.59 Euro 1.33 1.29 Net foreign exchange translation gains and losses included in other income and expense in our consolidated statements of operations resulted in a loss of $130,000 for 2013 and a $61,000 loss for 2012. The future losses could be greater than in the past. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. When we acquire a business, we assign estimated values to certain intangible assets and we also record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. Guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) under the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (the “Codification”) provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives. The Codification provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. This guidance requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually at year end. As part of our 2013 and 2012 annual tests for impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets, we noted no events of impairment. Any future impairment, could negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized which, in turn, may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. 14 Because we believe that proprietary rights are material to our success, misappropriation of these rights could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Our future success is highly dependent on proprietary technology, particularly in our communications equipment business. However, we do not hold any patents and we currently rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights in this area. Our management believes that because of the rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which we operate, the legal intellectual property protection for our products is a less significant factor in our success than the knowledge, abilities and experience of our employees; the frequency of our product enhancements; the effectiveness of our marketing activities; and the timeliness and quality of our support services. Consequently, we rely to a great extent on trade secret protection for much of our technology. However, there can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors or customers will not independently develop comparable or superior technologies or obtain unauthorized access to our proprietary technology, which can be difficult and expensive to monitor and enforce. Our financial condition would be materially adversely affected if we were to lose our competitive position due to our inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights as our technology evolves. Breaches of data security could negatively impact our business. Our products, services, and systems may affect critical third party operations. Breaches in security could expose the Company, our customers or others to risks of loss, resulting in litigation and potential liability for us, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to our brand and reputation. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Because we depend on computer and telecommunications systems we do not own or control, we are potentially subject to the adverse effects of third party operational system failures. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications and database services in connection with the operation of our facilities. We have several licenses from third parties. We may be subject to disruptions of our operational systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses and telecommunications outages). These third party systems and licenses on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. Any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties, to our computing and communications infrastructure, or our information systems could significantly disrupt our business operations and result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse impact on our financial results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is limited trading and investor interest in our stock which creates risks for investors when trying to sell our stock and limits the Company’s ability to raise cash for expansion or working capital by placing our stock. Our stock is quoted on the OTCQB trading venue but trading volumes are low due to limited investor interest in Micro Cap stocks, lack of liquidity in the stock, a negative stock price trend and a very low market capitalization. The stock price is volatile and responds to relatively small blocks of shares being bought or sold with disproportionate price swings. This limits the Company’s ability to use the stock to raise capital or to fund any strategic growth initiatives including mergers or acquisitions without a significant dilution of existing stockholders. 15 Our common stock price has been volatile, which has resulted in substantial losses for some investors purchasing shares of our common stock and could result in further losses or litigation against the Company. The market prices of securities of technology-based companies have been and will likely continue to be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past. During 2013, the high and low closing sale prices of a share of our common stock were $0.84 and $0.44, respectively. Our stock price has exhibited volatility and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, the market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: ● our success or failure to execute on our business strategy; ● whether the Company can become profitable and whether it can sustain profitability; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● foreign currency translations gains or losses; ● fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results and whether such results meet investor expectations; ● changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; ● general global economic weakness; ● economic conditions specific to the electronic devices or communications equipment industries; ● announcements by us or our competitors of new or enhanced products, technologies or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● delays in our introduction of new products or technological innovations or problems in the functioning of these new products or innovations; ● third parties’ infringement of our intellectual property rights, or our potential infringement of another party’s intellectual property rights; ● changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; ● regulatory developments; ● future sales of our common stock or other securities; and ● perception and confidence of investors regarding future prospects for the Company. The price at which you purchase shares of common stock may not be indicative of the price of our stock that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources and could have a significant impact on profitability, future cash flows and stock price. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of March 31, 2014, we had approximately 10.7 million shares of common stock outstanding and 0.3 million outstanding options. A substantial number of these shares are eligible for public resale. Sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Because our common stock price is low, we could be a target for a buyer or subject to a hostile takeover at a depressed value. Because of the Company’s current common stock price, aggregate market capitalization and potential market value of its assets, and its annual revenue, the Company may be an attractive target to a buyer or subject to a hostile takeover at a depressed value. Such price could be at a premium to the market price at the time of the transaction and still be significantly below the purchase price paid by most stockholders. The Company’s stock is concentrated in the hands of a limited number of groups of independent shareholders which could exercise their rights to influence the strategic direction of the Company to the detriment of the existing plans. Although the Company has certain anti-takeover measures in place, the Company does not have a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill, in place. The lack of this particular anti-takeover measure could make a change in control of our Company easier to accomplish. If a takeover attempt occurred, it might cause distractions for our management and our Board and this might prevent us from executing on our strategic plans, preserving the value of the Company for creditors and stockholders and growing the Company. In addition, a successful takeover attempt might result in a change of the Company’s management and directors. 16 The volatility of our quarterly and annual operating results may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. Sometimes these factors can cause more prolonged periods of increased or decreased operating results, measured in quarters or years. The cyclical nature of the communications equipment business due to the budgetary cycle of many of our key customers in this segment has had and will likely continue to have, for the foreseeable future, an effect on our quarterly operating results. Companies that utilize our communication equipment generally obtain approval for their annual budgets during the first quarter of each calendar year. If a company’s annual budget is not approved early in the calendar year or is insufficient to cover its desired purchases for the entire calendar year, then we are unable to sell products to the company during the period of the delay or shortfall. In addition, these budgets historically tend to vary significantly year by year, depending on a variety of factors, including overall economic conditions. A significant reduction in any one customer’s or group of customer’s budgets could reduce our overall sales, profits and cash flows in the future. Sales of our electronic devices are often made in conjunction with large military or commercial aerospace contracts. The timing of required deliveries under these contracts can be delayed based on issues related to the overall contract, which can cause delays in our shipment schedules, revenue recognition, profits and cash flows. In periods between completion of one long term contract and commencement of sales under a new contract, our revenues could be reduced. The impact of these periods between contracts can last for months, quarters or, occasionally, years. Quarter-to-quarter fluctuations may also result from the uneven pace of technological innovation, the development of products responding to these technological innovations by us and our competitors, our customers’ acceptance of these products and innovations, the varied degree of price, product and technological competition and our customers’ and competitors’ responses to these changes. Due to these and other factors, including changes in general economic conditions, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful in predicting future performance. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may fluctuate or decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 17 Item 