Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Annual Report (including our financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this report), before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Investment risks can be market-wide as well as unique to a specific industry or company. The market risks faced by an investor in our common stock are similar to the uncertainties faced by investors in a broad range of industries. There are, however, some risks that apply more specifically to the Company because our business is focused on developing, manufacturing, integrating and marketing globally rugged and military computers, tablets and computer based systems and instruments for the commercial, defense and aerospace markets. These customer relationships involve certain unique risks. Our business is also exposed mainly to common risks, such as the ongoing development of high technology products and the price, availability and quality of commodities and subsystems. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or growth prospects. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel could adversely affect our operations. The principal offices and operating facilities of Enertec and Micronet are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been an increase in hostilities between Israel and the Palestinian Arabs, which has adversely affected the peace process and has negatively influenced Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens and several Arab countries, including the recent Israel-Gaza conflict. Such ongoing hostilities may hinder Israel’s international trade relations and may limit the geographic markets where we can sell our products and solutions. Hostilities involving or threatening Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, could materially and adversely affect our operations. In addition, Israel-based companies and companies doing business with Israel have been the subject of an economic boycott by members of the Arab League and certain other predominantly Muslim countries since Israel’s establishment. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with certain Arab countries and the Palestinian Authority, and various declarations have been signed in connection with efforts to resolve some of the economic and political problems in the Middle East, we cannot predict whether or in what manner these problems will be resolved. Wars and acts of terrorism have resulted in significant damage to the Israeli economy, including reducing the level of foreign and local investment. Furthermore, certain of our officers and employees may be obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called up for active military duty at any time. All Israeli male citizens who have served in the army are subject to an obligation to perform reserve duty until they are between 40 and 49 years old, depending upon the nature of their military service. If we are unable to develop new products and maintain a qualified workforce we may not be able to meet the needs of our customers in the future. Virtually all of the products that we produce and sell are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing and system-integration techniques and capabilities. The markets and industry in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The products, systems and solutions needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our future performance depends on our ability to develop and manufacture competitive products and solutions, and bring those products to market quickly at cost-effective prices. In addition, because of the highly specialized nature of our business, we must be able to hire and retain the skilled and qualified personnel necessary to perform the services required by our customers. If we are unable to develop new products that meet customers’ changing needs or successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, our future revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. 15 We are dependent on the services of our executive officers, whose potential conflicts of interest may not permit us to effectively execute our business strategy. We currently depend on the continued services and performance of our executive officers, particularly David Lucatz, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. Mr. Lucatz also serves as the President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of D.L. Capital Ltd., or DLC, the primary asset of which is its ownership of shares of our common stock. We have a management and consulting services agreement with DLC. Pursuant to a separate management and consulting services agreement, Mr. Lucatz has agreed to devote 60% of his time to Micronet matters for the three-year term of that agreement. In addition, Tali Dinar, our Chief Financial Officer, has an employment agreement with Micronet pursuant to which she is to devote 80% of her time to its matters for the duration of such agreement. Our business and results of operations may suffer if Mr. Lucatz, or any of our other executive officers or directors, is unable to devote the attention necessary to our overall business strategy and operations. Developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties that may cause us to incur significant costs and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. A significant portion of our business relates to developing sophisticated products and applications. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services. While we maintain insurance for some business risks, it is not practicable to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. In addition, we may seek limitation of potential liability related to the sale and use of our products and systems. We may elect to provide products or services even in instances where we are unable to obtain such indemnification or qualification. Accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our products and products under development, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and/or cash flows. If we are unable to effectively protect our proprietary technology, our business and competitive position may be harmed. Our success and ability to compete are dependent on our proprietary technology. The steps each of our operations, Enertec and Micronet, has taken to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate and we may not be able to prevent others from using our proprietary technology. The methodologies and proprietary technology that constitute the basis of each of Enertec’s and Micronet’s solutions and products are not protected by patents. Existing trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and non-disclosure agreements to which each of Enertec and Micronet is a party offer only limited protection. Therefore, others, including Enertec’s or Micronet’s competitors, may develop and market similar solutions and products, copy or reverse engineer elements of Enertec’s systems or Micronet’s production lines, or engage in the unauthorized use of Enertec’s or Micronet’s intellectual property. Any misappropriation of Enertec’s or Micronet’s proprietary technology or the development of competitive technology may have a significant adverse effect on Enertec’s or Micronet’s ability to compete and may harm our business and financial position. We may incur substantial costs as a result of a litigation or other proceeding relating to property rights. Third parties may challenge the validity of Enertec’s or Micronet’s intellectual property rights or bring claims regarding Enertec’s or Micronet’s infringement of a third party’s property rights. This may result in costly litigation or other time-consuming and expensive judicial or administrative proceedings, which could deprive us of valuable rights, cause us to incur substantial expenses and cause a diversion for technical and management personnel. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Further, if such claims are proven valid, through litigation or otherwise, we may be required to pay substantial financial damages or be required to discontinue or significantly delay the development, marketing, sale or licensing of the affected products and intellectual property rights. 16 Our earnings and margins may be negatively impacted if we are unable to perform under our contracts. When agreeing to contractual terms, our management makes assumptions and projections about future conditions or events. These projections assess: · the productivity and availability of labor; · the complexity of the work to be performed; · the cost and availability of materials; · the impact of delayed performance; and · the timing of product deliveries. If there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances or estimates, or if we face unexpected contract costs, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected and could affect, among other things, our earnings and margins, due to the fact that our contracts are often made on a fixed-price basis. Our earnings and margins could be negatively affected by deficient subcontractor performance or unavailable raw materials or components. We rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. We depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet our contractual obligations in full compliance with customer requirements. Occasionally, we rely on only one or two sources of supply that, if disrupted, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. Our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor may be adversely affected if one or more of these suppliers is unable to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, deficiencies in the performance of our subcontractors and vendors could result in a customer terminating a contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to win new contracts. We depend on major customers for a significant portion of our revenues and our future revenues and earnings could be negatively impacted by the loss or reduction of the demand for our products or services by such customers. A significant portion of our annual revenues in the past two years were from a few leading customers that are large scale strategic Israeli defense groups (Rafael, IAI). Following the acquisition of Micronet, PeopleNet, a subsidiary of Trimble, which operates in the U.S. market, has been added as a major customer. In view of the above, as of December 31, 2012, we had three customers that combined account for approximately 90% of our accounts receivable. This is in comparison to 2011 during which we had two customers which accounted for 90% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2011. Israeli defense spending historically has been driven by perceived threats to the country’s national security. Although Israel has been under a sustained elevated threat level in recent years, we cannot provide any assurance that its defense budget will continue to grow at the pace it has over the past decade. A decrease in Israel’s defense spending or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed or terminated. Reductions in our existing programs could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. In the MRM market, most of our major customers do not have any obligation to purchase additional products or services from us. Therefore, we cannot provide any assurance that any of our leading customers will continue to purchase solutions, products or services at levels comparable to previous years. A substantial loss or reduction in Micronet’s existing programs could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented market and may not be able to maintain our competitive position in the future. A number of larger competitors have recently entered the MRM market in which Micronet operates. These large companies have far greater development and capital resources than Micronet. Further, there are competitors of Micronet that offer solutions, products and services similar to those offered by Micronet. If they continue, these trends could undermine Micronet’s competitive strength and position and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. 17 Micronet may cease to be eligible for, or receive reduced, tax benefits under Israeli law, which could negatively impact our profits in the future. Micronet currently receives certain tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments of 1959, as a result of the designation of its production facility as an “Approved Enterprise.” To maintain its eligibility for these tax benefits, Micronet must continue to meet several conditions including, among others, generating more than 25% of its gross revenues outside the State of Israel and continuing to qualify as an “Industrial Company” under Israeli tax law. An Industrial Company, according to the applicable Israeli law (Law for the Encouragement of Industry (Taxes), 1969), is a company that resides in Israel (either incorporated in Israel or managed and controlled from Israel) that, during the relevant tax year, derives at least 90% of its income from an Industrial Factory. An Industrial Factory means a factory that is owned by an Industrial Company and where its manufacturing operations constitute a vast majority of the factory’s total operations/business. The tax benefits of qualifying as an Industrial Company include a reduction of the corporate tax from 25% to 15%. In addition, in recent years the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under this program and has indicated that it may further reduce or eliminate benefits in the future. There is no assurance that Micronet will continue to qualify for these tax benefits or that such tax benefits will continue to be available at their current level, or at all. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase the amount of tax payable by Micronet and, accordingly, reduce its net profit after tax and negatively impact our profits. Because almost all of our officers and directors will be located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, you may have no effective recourse against our management for misconduct. Currently all, and immediately following a contemplated public offering of our securities pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 initially filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, on December 14, 2012 (file no. 333-185470), which registration statement has not yet been declared effective by the SEC, or the Offering, a majority, of our directors and officers are or will be nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against such officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. Additionally, it may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. securities law in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. Our financial results may be negatively affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Our revenues are mainly denominated in U.S. currency and our costs are mainly denominated in Israeli currency. Where possible, we match sales and purchases in these and other currencies to achieve a natural hedge. Currently, neither Enertec nor Micronet has a policy with respect to the use of derivative instruments for hedging purposes, except that both Enertec and Micronet will consider engaging in such hedging activities on a case by case basis. To the extent we are unable to fully match our sales and purchases in different currencies, our business will be exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. If we fail to manage our growth, our business could be disrupted and our profitability could be reduced. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods through both the acquisition of Micronet and organic growth. As a result of our acquisition of Micronet, the number of our employees has effectively doubled since September 2012. We expect our growth may significantly strain our management and other operational and financial resources. In particular, growth increases the integration challenges involved in recruiting, training and retaining skilled technical, marketing and management personnel; maintaining high quality standards; preserving our corporate culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal controls; and maintaining high levels of client satisfaction. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our historical and pro forma condensed consolidated financial information may not be representative of our results as a combined company. The pro forma condensed consolidated financial information included in the preliminary prospectus filed with the SEC was constructed from the separate financial statements of us and Micronet and may not represent the financial information that would result from operations of the combined companies. In addition, the pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is based in part on certain assumptions that we believe are reasonable. We cannot assure you that our assumptions will prove to be accurate over time. Accordingly, the historical and pro forma condensed consolidated financial information included in the preliminary prospectus filed with the SEC may not reflect what our results of operations and financial condition would have been had we been a combined entity during the periods presented, or what our results of operations and financial condition will be in the future. The challenge of integrating previously independent businesses makes evaluating our business and our future financial prospects difficult. Our potential for future business success and operating profitability must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties typically encountered by recently combined companies. 18 Our quarterly revenues may fluctuate as a result of seasonal variation within the Israeli military procurement industry. Enertec’s revenues experience seasonal variations because Israeli Ministry of Defense project approvals are frequently provided after the start of the fiscal year. Therefore, new orders to the military suppliers, including Enertec, are often delayed until the second half of the year. In addition, some of our customers require deliveries during the fourth quarter of the year in order to fulfill contractual delivery obligations to their own customers. As a result, we often experience an increase in our fourth quarter sales relative to sales in other quarters. If our beneficial ownership of Micronet’s ordinary shares declines, we may not be able to treat Micronet as our subsidiary, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently hold 48.06% of Micronet’s outstanding ordinary shares through our subsidiary Enertec Electronics. Micronet’s chairman has agreed to vote all of the shares he currently holds or acquires through stock option exercises according to our voting instructions; therefore, we may be deemed to beneficially own more than a majority of Micronet’s ordinary shares. However, the voting agreement is terminable by either party upon 90 days’ written notice to the other, which would reduce our beneficial ownership of Micronet. In addition, Micronet’s chairman, chief executive officer and others hold outstanding stock options to purchase ordinary shares of Micronet that, in the aggregate, represent approximately 4% of Micronet’s outstanding ordinary shares and securities convertible into approximately 1.75% of Micronet’s outstanding ordinary shares are also outstanding. If these options are exercised or securities are converted, our beneficial ownership may be reduced depending on who exercises these options and whether the voting agreement is in effect at that time. Although we hold certain call options to acquire additional outstanding ordinary shares of Micronet pursuant to the September 2012 purchase agreement described elsewhere in this Annual Report, we cannot give any assurance that the exercise price of our call options will be “in the money”. In addition, if Micronet issues additional ordinary shares that dilutes our beneficial ownership, we cannot give any assurance that Enertec Electronics will have the funds necessary to exercise sufficient call options or that financing will be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to consider Micronet as a consolidated subsidiary, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected and may cause interest in or the market price of our securities to decline. Risks Related to Ownership of our Securities Your ability to influence corporate decisions may be limited because ownership of our common stock is concentrated. Our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially owned 2,597,200 shares (approximately 65.4% of our outstanding common stock as of March 28, 2013). As a result of their ownership of our common stock, our directors and executive officers, collectively, may be able to control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company, and this may have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your common stock. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our securities, thereby depressing the market price of our securities. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. 19 Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the DGCL, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. We have not opted out of the restrictions under Section 203. Our stockholders may experience significant dilution as a result of any additional financing using our equity securities and/or debt securities. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. Sale of additional equity and/or convertible debt securities at prices below certain levels will trigger anti-dilution provisions with respect to certain securities we have previously sold. If additional funds are raised through a credit facility or the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, lenders under the credit facility or holders of these debt securities or preferred stock would likely have rights that are senior to the rights of holders of our common stock, and any credit facility or additional securities could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. If the price of our common stock is volatile, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including but not limited to the following: · announcements of developments related to our business; · quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; · announcements of technological innovations; · new products or product enhancements introduced by us or by our competitors; · developments in patents and other intellectual property rights and litigation; · developments in our relationships with our third party manufacturers and/or strategic partners; · developments in our relationships with our customers and/or suppliers; · regulatory or legal developments in the United States, Israel and other countries; · general conditions in the global economy; and · any other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. For these reasons and others, you should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the value of your investment. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline and may impair our ability to raise capital in the future. Our common stock is traded on the OTCQB and, despite certain increases of trading volume from time to time, there have been periods when it could be considered “thinly-traded,” meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near bid prices at any given time may have been relatively small or non-existent. Finance transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued securities that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares of common stock to sell those shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, including the ending of restriction on resale, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, the market price of our common stock could fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Moreover, we may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. 20 If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research about our business, the price of our common stock could decline. We do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of us, the trading price for our common stock would be negatively affected. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our securities, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, interest in the purchase of our common stock could decrease, which could cause the price of our common stock and trading volume to decline. We did not declare or pay cash dividends in either 2012 or 2011 and do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have no dividends policy and will consider distributing dividends on a year by year basis. The payment of dividends, if any, in the future, rests within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend, among other things, upon our earnings, our capital requirements and our financial condition, as well as other relevant factors. There are no restrictions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, or amended and restated bylaws that restrict us from declaring dividends. There are no assurances that we will pay dividends in the future. If our common stock is subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Subject to certain exceptions such as if we have net tangible assets of $2,000,000 or more or our common stock has a market price per share of $5.00 or more (as calculated pursuant to SEC rules), transactions in our common stock will be subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules. If our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser;• receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. As a result, if our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. You should be aware that, according to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. These could affect low-priced stocks, such as ours, even if they do not qualify as “penny stocks” under the SEC rules. Such patterns include: · Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers, · “Boiler room” practices involving high-pressure sales tactics, · Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales, · The release of misleading information, · Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers, and · Dumping of securities by broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level which hurts the price of the stock and causes investors to suffer losses. 21 Our shares of common stock are not yet listed for trading on a national securities exchange. The listing of our shares of common stock on a national exchange is a condition to the Offering. Although we have applied to have our common stock listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market and we currently expect such listing to be approved in connection with the contemplated Offering, there is no assurance that such listing will be approved or how long such approval could take. In addition, there can be no assurance that the contemplated Offering will be consummated in April 2013 or at all. Currently, our common stock only trades on the OTCQB and is not listed for trading on any national securities exchange. Investments in securities trading on the OTCQB are generally less liquid than investments in securities trading on a national securities exchange. The pool of potential investors who may buy and sell on the OTCQB is limited. Many institutional investors have policies which preclude them from doing so. You may not be able to sell your securities at the time desired or at the price desired. The failure of our securities to be approved for trading on a national securities exchange may have the effect of limiting the trading activity of our securities and reducing the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. The effects of not being able to list our securities on a national exchange include: · limited dissemination of the market price of our securities, · limited news coverage, · limited interest by investors in our securities, · volatility of our common stock prices due to low trading volume, · increased difficulty in selling our securities in certain states due to “blue sky” restrictions, and · limited ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 