Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following summarizes material risks that investors should carefully consider before deciding to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. Any of the following risks, if they actually occur, would likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors could lose the money they paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We incurred a net loss in 2007 and 2006 and may incur losses in the future. If we continue to incur losses, we will experience negative cash flow, which may hamper our operations, may prevent us from expanding our business and may cause our stock price to decline. We incurred a $1.9 million net loss for 2007 and a $3.6 million net loss for 2006. We expect to rely on cash on hand, cash generated from our operations and existing and future financing activities to fund the cash requirements of our business. If our net losses continue, we will experience negative cash flow, which may hamper current operations and may prevent us from expanding our business. We may be unable to attain, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we do not achieve, sustain or increase profitability, our stock price may decline. Our lack of long-term purchase orders or commitments may adversely affect our business if demand is reduced. During 2007, the sale of electronic devices accounted for approximately 71% of our total net sales, and the sale of communications equipment and related services accounted for approximately 29% of our total net sales. In some cases we have long-term contracts with our electronic devices and communications equipment customers that cover the general terms and conditions of our relationships with them but that do not include long-term purchase orders or commitments. Rather, our customers issue purchase orders requesting the quantities of products they desire to purchase from us, and if we are able and willing to fill those orders, then we fill them under the terms of the contracts. Accordingly, we cannot rely on long-term purchase orders or commitments to protect us from the negative financial effects of reduced demand for our products that could result from a general economic downturn, from changes in the electronic devices and communications equipment industries, including the entry of new competitors into these markets, from the introduction by others of new or improved technology, from an unanticipated shift in the needs of our customers, or from other causes. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting structure which until remedied, may cause errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We have identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 We have identified the following three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting: (i) we did not effectively implement comprehensive entity-level internal controls, (ii) we did not maintain effective controls over changes to critical financial reporting applications and over access to these applications and related data, and (iii) we did not maintain a sufficient level of information technology personnel to execute general computing controls over our information technology structure. See "Controls and Procedures." Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Vice President Finance and Administration, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. The unpredictability of our quarterly operating results may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. Our operating results from our communications equipment segment tend to be less stable and predictable than our operating results from our electronic devices segment. The cyclical nature of the communications equipment business due to the budgetary cycle of telephone companies has had and will likely continue to have, for the foreseeable future, an effect on our quarterly operating results. Telephone companies generally obtain approval for their annual budgets during the first quarter of each calendar year. If a telephone company's annual budget is not approved early in the calendar year or is insufficient to cover its desired purchases for the entire calendar year, we are unable to sell products to the telephone company during the period of the delay or shortfall. In addition, these budgets historically tend to vary significantly year by year depending on a variety of factors, including overall economic conditions. A significant reduction in any one customer's or group of customer's budgets could severely reduce our overall sales, profits and cash flows in the future. Our electronic devices sales are often made in conjunction with military contracts. The timing of required deliveries under these contracts can be delayed based on issues related to the overall military contract, which can cause delays in our shipment schedules, revenue recognition, profits and cash flows. Quarter-to-quarter fluctuations may also result from the uneven pace of technological innovation, the development of products responding to these technological innovations by us and our competitors, 10 our customers' acceptance of these products and innovations, the varied degree of price, product and technological competition and our customers' and competitors' responses to these changes. Due to these factors and other factors, including changes in general economic conditions, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful in predicting future performance. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may fluctuate or decline. The sales cycles of some of our products are lengthy, exposing us to the risks of delays, foregone orders and fluctuations in operating results. Sales of some of our products depend upon potential customers' internal approval and contracting procedures, procurement practices, and testing and acceptance processes, all of which involve require a significant amount of time. As a result of these and related factors, the sales cycle of many of our products, especially for large customers, typically ranges from six to twelve months or more. Lengthy sales cycles subject us to risks of delays, foregone orders and fluctuations in operating results. Most of our competitors have greater resources than us. In order to compete successfully, we must keep pace with our competitors in anticipating and responding to the rapid changes involving the electronic devices and communications equipment industries. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with technological developments, respond to the growth in the electronic devices and communications equipment markets in which we compete, encompass evolving customer requirements, and to provide a broad range of products and achieve market acceptance of our products. Most of our existing and potential competitors have larger technical staffs, more established and larger marketing and sales organizations and significantly greater financial resources than we do. Our lack of resources relative to our competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements or to experience significant delays in developing or introducing new products and services. These failures or delays could reduce our competitiveness, revenues, profit margins or market share, cash flow and stock price. We rely heavily on our management, and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our success is highly dependent upon the continued services of key members of our management, including Carmine T. Oliva, our Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Graham Jefferies, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and John Donovan, our Vice President Finance and Administration. Mr. Oliva co-founded EMRISE Electronics and has developed personal contacts and other skills that we rely upon in connection with our financing, acquisition and general business strategies. Mr. Jefferies is a long-time employee of EMRISE who we have relied upon in connection with our acquisitions in England and who fulfills significant operational responsibilities in connection with our foreign and domestic operations. Mr. Donovan was hired during 2007 to provide us with his extensive experience in financial reporting and compliance. The loss of Mr. Oliva, Mr. Jefferies or Mr. Donovan, or one or more other key members of management could adversely affect us. Although we have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers, those agreements do not guarantee continued employment of these individuals. We maintain key-man life insurance on Mr. Oliva and Mr. Jefferies. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain this insurance in effect or that the coverage will be sufficient to compensate us for the loss of the services of Mr. Oliva or Mr. Jefferies. 11 Our acquisition strategy may result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses, or be dilutive to existing shareholders. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings or expand our market coverage. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks, and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company's technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the companies we have historically acquired. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves or require us borrow additional amounts under our credit facility. Depending on the circumstances, we may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. As our international business expands, we are increasingly exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. International sales accounted for 56.7% and 50.2% of our net sales in 2007 and 2006, respectively. We undertake various sales and marketing activities through our facilities in England, France and Japan. We intend to continue to expand our international business activities. The continuing effects of the war in Iraq and terrorist attacks in the U.S. and abroad, the resulting heightened security, and the increasing risk of extended international military conflicts may adversely impact our international sales 12 and could make our international operations more expensive. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: •political, social and economic instability; •exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; •natural disasters and public health emergencies; •nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; •trade and travel restrictions; •the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; •burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; •import and export license requirements and restrictions of the U.S. and each other country in which we operate; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •foreign technical standards; •changes in taxation and tariffs; •difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and •potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. If we are unable to fulfill backlog orders due to circumstances involving us or one or more of our suppliers or customers, our anticipated results of operations will suffer. As of December 31, 2007, we had $25.3 million in backlog orders for our products. Backlog orders represent revenue that we anticipate recognizing in the future, as evidenced by purchase orders and other purchase commitments received from customers, but on which work has not yet been initiated or with respect to which work is currently in progress. Our backlog orders are due, in large part, to the long lead-times associated with our electronic device products, which products generally are custom built to order. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in fulfilling orders and commitments in a timely manner or that we will ultimately recognize as revenue the amounts reflected as backlog. Factors that could affect our ability to fulfill backlog orders include difficulty we may experience in obtaining raw materials or sub-assemblies from suppliers, whether due to obsolescence, production difficulties on the part of suppliers or other causes, or customer-induced delays and product holds. Our anticipated results of operations and cash flows will suffer to the extent we are unable to fulfill backlog orders within the timeframes we establish, particularly if delays in fulfilling backlog orders cause our customers to reduce or cancel their orders. If our products fail to comply with evolving government and industry standards and regulations, we may have difficulty selling our products. We design our products to comply with a significant number of industry standards and regulations, some of which are evolving as new technologies are deployed. Our products must comply with various 13 regulations defined by the FCC and Underwriters Laboratories, the American National Standards Institute, among others as well as industry standards such as those established by Telcordia Technologies, Inc. (communications), Federal Aviation Authority (aerospace) and Boeing. Internationally, our products must comply with standards established by the European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization, the European Committee for Standardization, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, and telecommunications authorities in various countries as well as with recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union, Airbus and various Civil Aviation Authorities, among others. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving standards could negatively affect our ability to manufacture and/or sell our products in the future. Our business could suffer if we are unable to obtain components of our products from outside suppliers. The major components of our products include circuit boards, microprocessors, chipsets and memory components. Most of these components are available from multiple sources. However, we currently obtain some components used in our products from single or limited sources. Some modem chipsets used in our data communications equipment products have been in short supply and are frequently on allocation by semiconductor manufacturers and some military components are specified to extreme and harsh environment and special packaging. We have, from time to time, experienced difficulty in obtaining some components. We do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with any of our suppliers, and there can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to meet our requirements. Further, disruption in transportation services as a result of threatened or actual terrorist attacks, weather related delays, labor issues or other causes could result in increased costs and/or delays in both our receipt of components and shipment of products to our customers. If our existing suppliers are unable to meet our requirements, we could be required to alter product designs to use alternative components or, if alterations are not feasible, we could be required to eliminate products from our product line. Shortages of components could not only limit our product line and production capacity but also could result in higher costs due to the higher costs of components in short supply or the need to use higher cost substitute components. Significant increases in the prices of components could adversely affect our results of operations because our products compete on price and, therefore, we may not be able to adjust product pricing to reflect the increases in component costs. Also, an extended interruption in the supply of components or a reduction in their quality or reliability would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by impairing our ability to timely deliver quality products to our customers. Delays in deliveries due to shortages of components or other factors may result in cancellation by our customers of all or part of their orders. Financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are prepared using the relevant foreign currency that must be converted into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our reported results of operations. We have established and acquired international subsidiaries in England, France and Japan that prepare their balance sheets in the relevant local foreign currency. In order to be included in our consolidated financial statements, these balance sheets are converted, at the then current exchange rate, into U.S. dollars, and the statements of operations are converted using weighted average exchange rates for the applicable period. Accordingly, fluctuations of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our consolidated financial statements. Our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates has increased as a result of the growth of our international subsidiaries. Sales of our products and services to customers located outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 56.7% and 50.2% of our net sales for 2007 and 2006, respectively. We use derivatives to manage foreign currency rate risk for 14 certain sales shipped from England. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. Net foreign exchange translation gains and losses included in other income and expense in our consolidated statements of operations resulted in an $83,000 gain for 2007 and a $343,000 loss for 2006. Because we believe that proprietary rights are material to our success, misappropriation of these rights could adversely affect our financial condition. Our future success will be highly dependent on proprietary technology, particularly in our communications equipment business. However, we do not hold any patents and we currently rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights in this area. Our management believes that because of the rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which we operate, the legal intellectual property protection for our products is a less significant factor in our success than the knowledge, abilities and experience of our employees, the frequency of our product enhancements, the effectiveness of our marketing activities and the timeliness and quality of our support services. Consequently, we rely to a great extent on trade secret protection for much of our technology. However, there can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors or customers will not independently develop comparable or superior technologies or obtain unauthorized access to our proprietary technology. Our financial condition would be adversely affected if we were to lose our competitive position due to our inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights as our technology evolves. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock may be delisted from NYSE Arca, which could decrease the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to dispose of or obtain quotations for our common stock. On November 13, 2007, NYSE Arca Equities, Inc. advised us that our common stock had failed to maintain the required minimum price of $1.00 per share as required by NYSE Arca Equities Rule 5.5(h)(4). On December 21, 2007, NYSE Arca Equities, Inc. advised us that they had approved a six-month cure period commencing on November 13, 2007. By the end of this six-month cure period on May 13, 2008, we must have achieved a minimum $1.00 share price and a $1.00 average share price over the 30 trading days immediately preceding May 13, 2008 in order to maintain our listing. If we fail to achieve these minimum requirements, our common stock will be delisted from trading by the NYSE Arca. If delisting occurs, shares of our common stock will trade on the OTC Bulletin Board and, as a result, trading in shares of our common stock could decrease substantially, the market price of our common stock could decline further, and our shareholders could lose some or all of their investment. Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. The market prices of securities of technology-based companies have been and will likely continue to be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past. During 2007, the high and low closing sale prices of a share of our common stock were $1.31 and $0.61, respectively. Between January 1, 2007 and March 14, 2008, the high and low closing sale prices of a share of our common stock were $1.31 and $0.49, respectively. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: •changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; •economic conditions specific to the electronic devices or communications equipment industries; 15 •announcements by us or our competitors of new or enhanced products, technologies or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •delays in our introduction of new products or technological innovations or problems in the functioning of these new products or innovations; •third parties' infringement of our intellectual property rights; •changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; •foreign currency translations gains or losses; •regulatory developments; •fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; •additions or departures of key personnel; •future sales of our common stock or other securities; and •perception and confidence of investors regarding future prospects for EMRISE. The price at which you purchase shares of common stock may not be indicative of the price of our stock that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources and could have a significant impact on profitability, future cash flows and stock price. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of March 14, 2008, we had outstanding 38.3 million shares of common stock and options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 8.7 million shares of common stock. A substantial number of these shares are eligible for public resale. Sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 16 