Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our shares is, of course, subject to risks and uncertainties. Investors should consider the following factors, prior to deciding whether to purchase our securities. Investment risks can be market-wide as well as unique to a specific industry or company. The market risks faced by an investor in our shares are similar to the uncertainties faced by investors in a broad range of industries. There are, however, some risks that apply more specifically to Lapis because our business is focused on the defense market and our revenues are concentrated among two leading Israeli defense groups that perform strategic long-term projects for the Israeli government. These customer relationships involve certain unique risks. Our business is also exposed mainly to common risks, such as the ongoing development of high technolog y products and the price, availability and quality of commodities and subsystems. We depend on two major customers for a significant portion of our revenues. More than 93% of our annual revenues in the past two years were from the two leading Israeli defense groups, Raphael and the Israeli Aerospace Industry, that perform large scale strategic projects for the Israeli government among other tasks. It should be noted however that IAI is composed of several separate independent factories with whom we are working separately. Israeli defense spending historically has been driven by perceived threats to its national security. Although Israel has been under a sustained elevated threat level in recent years, we cannot provide any assurance that defense budgets will continue to grow at the pace it has over the past decade. A decrease in Israel's defense spending or cha nges in spending allocation could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed or terminated. Reductions in our existing programs could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and maintain a qualified workforce to meet the needs of our customers. Virtually all of the products that we produce and sell are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing and system-integration techniques and capabilities. The commercial and government markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The products, systems and solutions needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our future performance depends in part on our ability to develop and manufacture competitive products and solutions, and bring those products to market quickly at cost-effective prices. In addition, because of the highly specialized nature of our business, we must be able to hire and retain the skilled and qualified personnel necessary to perform the services required by our customers. If we are unable to develop new products that meet customers’ changing needs or successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, our future revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. Developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. A significant portion of our business relates to developing products for defense-related applications. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services. While we maintain insurance for some business risks, it is not practicable to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Where possible, we seek indemnification from our customers. In addition, we may seek limitation of potential liability related to the sale and use of our products and systems. We may elect to provide products or services even in instances where we are unable to obtain su ch indemnification or qualification. Accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Our earnings and margins depend on our ability to perform under our contracts. When agreeing to contractual terms, our management makes assumptions and projections about future conditions or events. These projections assess: • the productivity and availability of labor, • the complexity of the work to be performed, • the cost and availability of materials, • the impact of delayed performance, and • the timing of product deliveries. 6 If there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances or estimates, or if we face unexpected contract costs, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected and could affect our earnings and margins among other due to the fact that Lapis’s contracts are often made on a fixed-price basis. Our earnings and margins depend in part on subcontractor performance, as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. We rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. We depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet our contractual obligations in full compliance with customer requirements. Occasionally, we rely on only one or two sources of supply that, if disrupted, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. Our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor may be adversely affected if one or more of these suppliers is unable to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, deficiencies in the performance of our subcontractors and vendors could result in a customer terminating a contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to win new contracts. Your ability to influence corporate decisions may be limited because ownership of our common stock is concentrated. Our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially owned 6,194,000 shares (approximately 95% of our outstanding common stock as of March 30, 2011). As a result of their ownership of our common stock, our directors and executive officers, collectively, may be able to control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company, and this may have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 