ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks discussed below and the other information in this report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Risks related to our business: A significant portion of our sales are derived from a limited number of customers, and results of operations could be adversely affected and stockholder value harmed if we lose any of these customers. A significant portion of our revenues historically have been derived from a limited number of customers. Further, each of these customers is a manufacturer of heavy trucks or components, and the world-wide truck and off-road industries have been subject to significant financial stress and uncertainty in recent months. Were any of these customers to place some or all of their business with one or more of our competitors, we may face a material adverse impact upon our revenues, net income, cash flows and financial condition. Reduced consumer or corporate spending due to weakness in the financial and credit markets and uncertainties in the economy, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We depend on demand from the original equipment manufacturer component of the heavy truck markets for the end market applications that use our products. All of these markets have been and may continue to be affected by the recent instability in global financial markets that have caused extreme economic disruption in recent months. Accordingly, our business may be adversely impacted by reductions in consumer or corporate demand for our products as a result of uncertain conditions in the macroeconomic environment, such as volatile energy prices, inflation, fluctuations in interest rates, difficulty securing credit, volatility in security prices and the corresponding uncertainties surrounding equity finance markets, diminished liquidity and other economic factors. Demand for our products declined significantly in fiscal 2009, which impacted overall sales and net income. Negative economic conditions also may materially impact our customers, suppliers and other parties with which we do business. Economic and financial market conditions that adversely affect our customers may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders or to reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future. In connection with the sale of products, we normally do not require collateral as security for customer receivables and do not purchase credit insurance. We may have significant balances owing from customers who operate in cyclical industries or who may not be able to secure sufficient credit in order to honor their obligations to us. Failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic and financial markets conditions also may cause our suppliers to be unable to provide materials and components to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for our amounts owing them or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. While we have not yet experienced changes of this type, they could significantly affect our liquidity and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial markets conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. 8 Demand for equipment on which our products are installed may decrease, which could adversely affect our revenues and stockholder value. We sell our products primarily to manufacturers of heavy trucks, transit buses and off-road equipment. If demand for our customers’ vehicles or equipment decreases, demand for our products would decrease as well. This decrease in demand would adversely impact our revenues and stockholder value. Our products could be recalled, which could increase our costs and decrease our revenues. Our vehicle component products must comply with the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, as amended, and regulations promulgated thereunder, which are administered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”). If NHTSA finds that we are not in compliance with its standards or regulations, it may, among other things, require that we recall products found not to be in compliance, and repair or replace such products. Such a recall could increase our costs and adversely impact our reputation in our industry, both of which would adversely affect our revenues, profit margins, results of operations and stockholder value. We purchase component parts from suppliers and changes in the relationships with such suppliers, as well as increases in the costs of raw materials that comprise our component and/or the component parts, would adversely affect our ability to produce and market our products, which would adversely affect our profit margins, results from operations and stockholder value. We purchase component parts from suppliers to be used in the manufacturing of our products. If a supplier fails to provide necessary component parts, we may be unable to produce, or may face delays or cost increases in producing, certain products. These potentialities could result in a decrease in revenue, a loss of timeliness in product deliveries, and adverse impacts on our reputation in our industry. Also, if prices of raw materials that comprise our component parts and/or the component parts increase and we are not able to pass on such increase to our customers, our profit margins would decrease. Finally, if our suppliers (or any alternative suppliers from which we choose or are required to acquire components) delivers products that do not meet our specifications or cause us to fail to meet our product standards, we may face losses in revenues, reputational harm, and potentially other adverse business consequences. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations and stockholder value. Our products could be subject to product liability claims by customers and/or consumers, which would adversely affect our profit margins, results of operations and stockholder value. The majority of our products are used on heavy trucks and transit buses. If our products are not properly designed or built and/or personal injuries or property damages are attributed to the performance of our equipment, we could be subject to claims for damages based on theories of product liability and other legal theories. We maintain liability insurance for these personal injury and property damage risks, but not for claims that do not involve personal injury or property damage. The costs and resources to defend such claims could be substantial, and if such claims are successful, we could be responsible for paying some or all of the damages. Also, our reputation could be adversely affected, regardless of whether such claims are successful. Any of these results would adversely affect our profit margins, results of operations and stockholder value. We are currently named as a co-defendant in a product liability case that seeks class action, which is not covered by our liability insurance. Refer to ITEM 3 – LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. Our defined benefit pension plans are under-funded and, therefore, we may be required to increase our contributions to the plans, which would adversely affect our cash flows. We maintain two defined benefit pension plans among the retirement plans we sponsor. No new employees are being admitted to participate in these two plans. Participants in these two plans are entitled to a fixed formula benefit upon retirement. Although we make regular contributions to these two plans in accordance with minimum ERISA funding requirements, investment earnings may be less than expected, and we may be required to increase contributions to the under-funded plan(s), which would adversely affect our cash flows. 9 The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in losses for stockholders. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market and is thinly traded. Volatility of thinly traded stocks is typically higher than the volatility of more liquid stocks with higher trading volumes. The market price of our common stock has been and, in the future, could be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the foregoing, as well as variations in our operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, announcements of new strategic relationships by us or our competitors, general conditions in our industries or market conditions unrelated to our business and operating results. Any of these results could adversely impact stockholder value. Current economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. Financial markets in the United States and abroad have experienced extreme disruption, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. These conditions and the current economic downturn have impaired our ability to access credit markets and there can be no assurance that these conditions will not adversely affect our business in the future, particularly if there is further deterioration in the world financial markets and major economies. At September 30, 2009, we had on hand cash and cash equivalents of $9,245. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we voluntarily cancelled our revolving loan facility with GE Capital, which as of June 30, 2009 had a zero balance. We believe our cash on hand will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs on a short-term and longer-term basis without the necessity of borrowing, or attempting to borrow from a revolving loan facility. However, were we to require additional borrowing capacity, we may be unable to locate such capacity on acceptable terms or at all. Risks related to environmental laws: The soil and groundwater at our Portland, Oregon facility contains certain contaminants that may require us to incur substantial expense to investigate and remediate, which would adversely affect our profit margins, results from operations and stockholder value. The soil and groundwater at our Portland, Oregon facility contain certain contaminants. Some of this contamination has migrated offsite to neighboring properties and potentially to other properties. We have retained an environmental consulting firm to investigate the extent of the contamination and to determine what remediation will be required and the associated costs. In fiscal 2004, we entered the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality’s voluntary clean-up program and during fiscal 2004 established a liability of $950 for this matter. At September 30, 2007, we recorded an additional liability of $546 and as of September 30, 2009, this liability totaled $1,001. Our overall costs ultimately may exceed our estimates, or we may be forced to increase the amount of our estimates, either or both of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks related to foreign operations: In addition to our operations in the United States, we currently operate in China, and have a sales presence in other countries such as Japan, Korea and a number of countries in the European Union, and we market our products and technologies in those and other international markets, including both industrialized and developing countries. Our combined international operations are subject to various risks common to international activities, such as: our ability to maintain good relations with our overseas employees and distributors and to collect amounts owed from our overseas customers; exposure to currency fluctuations; potential difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations; complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including product certification, environmental, and import and export laws; 10 the challenges of operating in disparate geographies and cultures; political and economic instability; and restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries, particularly from our Chinese subsidiary. Fluctuations in the value of currencies could adversely affect our international sales, which would result in reduced revenues and stockholder value. We sell products in Canada, Belgium, Sweden, Mexico, South America, the Pacific Rim nations, Australia, China and certain member nations of the European Union; we purchase components from suppliers in China, Mexico and Europe; we have a manufacturing and sales operation in China; and we maintain a sales and technical center in Germany. For the years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, foreign sales were approximately 37%, 46%, and 41% of net sales, respectively. Although currently a majority of our sales and purchases are made in U.S. dollars, an increasing amount of our purchases and sales are made in Chinese RMB and we anticipate that over time more of our purchases of component parts and sales of our products will be denominated in foreign currencies. We do not presently engage in any hedging of foreign currency risk. In the future, our operations in the foreign markets will likely become subject to fluctuations in currency values between the U.S. dollar and the currency of the foreign markets. Our results of operations and stockholder value could be adversely affected if currency of any of the foreign markets increases in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Complying with the laws applicable to the United States and foreign markets may become more difficult and expensive in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and stockholder value. Our operations in the United States and foreign markets are subject to the laws of such markets. Compliance with these laws may become more difficult and costly in the future. In addition, these laws may change and such change may require us to change our operations. Any of these results could adversely affect our results from operations and stockholder value by increasing expenses and reducing revenues, thereby reducing profits. Political and economic instability in the foreign markets may make doing business there more difficult and costly, which could adversely affect our results from operations and stockholder value. Economic and political instability may increase in the future in foreign markets. Such instability may make it more difficult to do business in those countries, may make it more expensive to operate and could disrupt supplies of components into our Portland or Suzhou facilities. If our operations were nationalized by the government of China, this could cause us to write off the value of our operations in such foreign markets and eliminate revenues generated by such operations. Any of these results could result in onetime charges or increased expenses as well as lower revenues, which would adversely affect our results of operations and harm stockholder value. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 