ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks discussed below and the other information in this report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Risks related to our business: A significant portion of our sales are derived from a limited number of customers, and results of operations could be adversely affected and stockholder value harmed if we lose any of these customers. A significant portion of our revenues historically have been derived from a limited number of customers. For the years ended September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, The Volvo Group accounted for 19%, 17% and 16%, Paccar, Inc. accounted for 11%, 14% and 17%, Freightliner, LLC accounted for 9%, 13% and 17%, Navistar International Corporation accounted for 7%, 6% and 8% and Caterpillar, Inc. accounted for 7%, 6% and 5%, of net sales from continuing operations, respectively. The loss of any significant customer would adversely affect our revenues and stockholder value. 8 Demand for equipment on which our products are installed may decrease, which could adversely affect our revenues and stockholder value. We sell our products primarily to manufacturers of heavy trucks, transit busses and off-road equipment. If demand for our customers’ vehicles or equipment decreases, demand for our products would decrease as well. This decrease in demand would adversely impact our revenues and stockholder value. Our products could be recalled, which could increase our costs and decrease our revenues. Our vehicle component products must comply with the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, as amended, and regulations promulgated thereunder, which are administered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”). If NHTSA finds that we are not in compliance with its standards or regulations, it may, among other things, require that we recall products found not to be in compliance, and repair or replace such products. Such a recall could increase our costs and adversely impact our reputation in our industry, both of which would adversely affect our revenues, profit margins, results of operations and stockholder value. We experienced such a recall with respect to certain of our products in fiscal 2001. We purchase component parts from suppliers and changes in the relationships with such suppliers, as well as increases in the costs of raw materials that comprise our component and/or the component parts, would adversely affect our ability to produce and market our products, which would adversely affect our profit margins, results from operations and stockholder value. We purchase component parts from suppliers to be used in the manufacturing of our products. If a supplier is unable or unwilling to provide us with such component parts, we may be unable to produce certain products, which could result in a decrease in revenue and adversely impact our reputation in our industry. Also, if prices of raw materials that comprise our component parts and/or the component parts increase and we are not able to pass on such increase to our customers, our profit margins would decrease. The occurrence of either of these would adversely affect our results from operations and stockholder value. Our products could be subject to product liability claims by customers and/or consumers, which would adversely affect our profit margins, results from operations and stockholder value. A significant portion of our products are used on heavy trucks and transit busses. If our products are not properly designed or built and/or personal injuries are sustained as a result of our equipment, we could be subject to claims for damages based on theories of product liability and other legal theories. We maintain liability insurance for these risks; however, the costs and resources to defend such claims could be substantial, and if such claims are successful, we could be responsible for paying some or all of the damages. Also, our reputation could be adversely affected, regardless of whether such claims are successful. Any of these results would adversely affect our profit margins, results from operations and stockholder value. We are currently named as a co-defendant in a product liability case that seeks class action. Refer to ITEM 3 — LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. Work stoppages or other changes in the relationships with our employees could make it difficult for us to produce and effectively market our products, which would adversely affect our profit margins, results from operations and stockholder value. Our hourly employees engaged in manufacturing in the Portland, Oregon facility are represented by the International Union, United Automobile Workers of America and Amalgamated Local 492 (the “UAW”). The current five-year labor agreement expired on August 31, 2008 and as of the filing of this report on Form 10-K the Company and the UAW have not entered into a new agreement. The members of the UAW are currently working without a contract and there can be no assurance that they will continue to work without a contract. If we experience significant work stoppages, as we did in fiscal 2003, we may have difficulty manufacturing our products. Also, our labor costs could increase and we may not be able to pass such increase on to our customers. The occurrence of either of the foregoing would adversely affect profit margins, results from operations and stockholder value. 9 Our defined benefit pension plans are under-funded and, therefore, we may be required to increase our contributions to the plans, which would adversely affect our cash flows. We maintain two defined benefit pension plans among the retirement plans we sponsor. No new employees are being admitted to participate in these two plans. Participants in these two plans are entitled to a fixed formula benefit upon retirement. Although we make regular contributions to these two plans in accordance with minimum ERISA funding requirements, investment earnings may be less than expected, and we may be required to increase contributions to the under-funded plan(s), which would adversely affect our cash flows. Current economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. Financial markets in the United States and abroad have experienced extreme disruption, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. While these conditions and the current economic downturn have not impaired our ability to access credit markets to date, there can be no assurance that these conditions will not adversely affect our business in the future, particularly if there is further deterioration in the world financial markets and major economies. At September 30, 2008, we had $8,000 available under our revolving credit facility plus cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2008 of $9,060. We were not compliant with one financial covenant at September 30, 2008 and this non compliance could limit our ability to borrow against the $8,000 currently available under the revolving credit facility. We believe with our cash on hand combined with cash provided by operations that we will be able to sufficiently meet our working capital needs, however, there can be no assurance the current economic conditions will not adversely affect our financial condition. Risks related to environmental laws: The soil and groundwater at our Portland, Oregon facility contains certain contaminants that may require us to incur substantial expense to investigate and remediate, which would adversely affect our profit margins, results from operations and stockholder value. The soil and groundwater at our Portland, Oregon facility contain certain contaminants. Some of this contamination has migrated offsite to neighboring properties and potentially to other properties. We have retained an environmental consulting firm to investigate the extent of the contamination and to determine what, if any, remediation will be required and the associated costs. During the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we entered the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality’s voluntary clean-up program and during fiscal 2004 we established a liability of $950 for this matter. At September 30, 2007, we recorded an additional liability of $546 and as of September 30, 2008, this liability totaled $1,021. Our overall costs could exceed this liability, which could adversely affect our profit margins, results from operations and stockholder value. We are required to comply with federal and state environmental laws, which could become increasingly expensive and could result in substantial liability if we do not comply. We produce small quantities of hazardous waste in our operations and are subject to federal and state air, water and land pollution control laws and regulations. Compliance with such laws and regulations could become increasingly costly and the failure to comply could result in substantial liability. Either of these results could increase expenses, thereby adversely affecting our profit margins and stockholder value. Risks related to foreign operations: Fluctuations in the value of currencies could adversely affect our international sales, which would result in reduced revenues and stockholder value. We sell products in Canada, Belgium, Sweden, Mexico, South America, the Pacific Rim nations, Australia, China and certain other European nations, purchase components from suppliers in China, Mexico and Europe, have a manufacturing and sales operation in China, and a sales and technical center in Germany. For the years ended September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, foreign sales were approximately 46%, 41%, and 36% of net sales, respectively. Although currently a majority of our sales and purchases are made in U.S. dollars, an increasing amount of our purchases and sales are made in RMB and we anticipate that over time more of our purchases of component parts 10 and sales of our products will be denominated in foreign currencies. We do not presently engage in any hedging of foreign currency risk. In the future, our operations in the foreign markets will likely become subject to fluctuations in currency values between the U.S. dollar and the currency of the foreign markets. Our results from operations and stockholder value could be adversely affected if currency of any of the foreign markets increases in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Complying with the laws applicable to the United States and foreign markets may become more difficult and expensive in the future, which could adversely affect our results from operations and stockholder value. Our operations in the United States and foreign markets are subject to the laws of such markets. Compliance with these laws may become more difficult and costly in the future. In addition, these laws may change and such change may require us to change our operations. Any of these results could adversely affect our results from operations and stockholder value by increasing expenses and reducing revenues, thereby reducing profits. Political and economic instability in the foreign markets may make doing business there more difficult and costly, which could adversely affect our results from operations and stockholder value. Economic and political instability may increase in the future in foreign markets. Such instability may make it more difficult to do business in those countries, may make it more expensive to do so and could disrupt supplies of components into our Portland or Suzhou facilities. If our operations were nationalized by the government of China, this could cause us to write off the value of our operations in such foreign markets and eliminate revenues generated by such operations. Any of these results could result in onetime charges or increased expenses as well as lower revenues, which would adversely affect our results of operations and harm stockholder value. Risks Related to our Capital Structure: The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in losses for stockholders. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market and is thinly traded. Volatility of thinly traded stocks is typically higher than the volatility of more liquid stocks with higher trading volumes. The market price of our common stock has been and, in the future, could be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the foregoing, as well as variations in our operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, announcements of new strategic relationships by us or our competitors, general conditions in our industries or market conditions unrelated to our business and operating results. Any of these results could adversely impact stockholder value. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 