ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Business Risks General Information About These Business Risks Following is a discussion of certain risks that may impact our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business could be negatively impacted. The risks and uncertainties described below are not all inclusive. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may negatively impact our business. You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the following risks should actually occur, our existing business, future business opportunities, financial condition or results of operations would likely be negatively affected. In such case, the trading price of Exabyte common stock or other securities could decrease, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We may need additional funding to support our operations. We have incurred operating losses over the last six years. As a result, we have taken several actions to raise capital, including the sale of preferred stock in 2004, the sale of the Convertible Notes in 2005, revisions to our bank line of credit with overadvance guarantees in 2003, a new bank line of credit in 2005, restructuring notes payable to suppliers in 2003, 2004 and 2005, and entering into the Media and Distribution Agreement with Imation in November 2003. We also believe the modification of the MDA effective January 1, 2006, and the related increase in gross margin on the sale of our media products, improves our opportunity for future profitability. In any event, we believe that profitable operations will be necessary to support and expand our operations in the future. In addition, we continue to evaluate our potential need for additional capital, and various strategic alternatives that could result in such additional capital and increase our liquidity. It is uncertain whether additional capital would be available if needed. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of these alternatives and the impact of the MDA modification. The uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern may affect the willingness of customers and suppliers to work with us, as well as our ability to obtain inventory and finished goods in a timely manner. As a result of our limited liquidity, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005, contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the uncertainty relating to our ability to continue as a going concern. Ongoing concerns about our financial condition have impacted our dealings with third parties, such as customers, suppliers and creditors, and the continuation of such concerns could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in the future. Future liquidity issues could prevent us from making timely payments to our suppliers which could restrict our ability to obtain products and meet our customers’ demands. This situation has occurred in the past and, if it recurs, would materially and adversely impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition, our competitive position in our market, and possibly our ability to continue operations. We need to expand existing OEM customer relationships and develop new OEM customers for our VXA and Other products in order to be successful. Our product sales depend heavily on OEM qualification, adoption and integration. OEM sales are a key component of our revenue, and many reseller and smaller OEM customers delay their orders until larger OEMs adopt and integrate our products. We have established a number of relationships with OEM customers for our VXA and LTO Automation products, but the revenue from these OEMs has not grown as rapidly as expected which has affected our ability to become profitable. Our competitive position and ability to achieve future profitable operations 12 Table of Contents may be negatively impacted unless we are able to establish additional relationships with OEM customers and increase our market share with existing customers. Our profitability depends on decreases in our direct product costs. Although we believe we must increase our sales to OEM customers, who generally pay lower prices than other customers, we must also continue to improve our gross margins. Accordingly, we must lower our product costs, which involves revising existing supply agreements, potentially transitioning our outsourced manufacturing to other suppliers, relocating such manufacturing to lower cost geographic locations, or increasing our sales volumes to obtain lower prices. We continually evaluate our product costs and the appropriate actions necessary to increase our gross margins. Any transition to a new outsourcing manufacturer or location would include the risk of interruption of product supply and delays in meeting our customers’ demands. Our profitability is dependent upon increased media revenue. Since November 2003, we have sold all of our proprietary media products to our exclusive distributor, Imation. Our sales prices to Imation were less than the prices we previously realized for these products. Although the modification of our MDA with Imation results in an increase in our overall gross margin on media products, we continue to be dependent on Imation to maintain or increase sales volumes of our media products. We are subject to significant risks regarding foreign operations, regulatory requirements and fluctuations in foreign currency. Many of our key components and products are manufactured overseas in countries such as Japan, China, Singapore and Malaysia. Because we depend on foreign sourcing for our key components, products and subassemblies, our results of operations may be materially affected by: • reduced intellectual property protections; • foreign government regulations; • foreign tax regulations; • foreign exchange control regulations; • import/export restrictions; • foreign economic and/or political instability; and • tariffs, trade barriers and other trade restrictions by the U.S. government in products or components shipped from or to foreign sources. Our international involvement is also subject to other risks common to foreign operations, including government regulations, foreign exchange or import restrictions or tariffs imposed by the U.S. Government on products or components shipped from another country. Additionally, the sale of our products to domestic federal or state agencies may be limited by the Buy America Act or the Trade Agreement Act to the extent that we incorporate components produced overseas into our products. Additionally, a note payable to a supplier is denominated in the Yen at a fixed conversion rate and our foreign subsidiaries incur significant operating costs that are payable in foreign currencies. Accordingly, foreign currency fluctuations affect our results of operations. Please see “Market Risk” in Item 7A below for more information. The European Community recently enacted new regulatory requirements related to the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”). These RoHS regulations state that products sold into Europe, beginning in July 2006, comply with specific guidelines stated in the regulations. RoHS has required us to perform substantial modifications to our hardware products, and may result in our discontinuing the sale of certain non-complying products to our European customers. Continued compliance with RoHS regulations may result in increased engineering costs and could negatively impact revenue from European customers. 13 Table of Contents Our manufacturers may be unable to meet our product demand, implement product engineering changes on a timely basis, or produce product at a commercially reasonable cost. We currently outsource all of our manufacturing processes and due to the time and expense involved in moving the manufacturing to another party, we heavily depend on our existing third party manufacturers for our products. If our manufacturers cannot meet our product demand, or cannot or will not implement product changes on a timely basis, we would be unable to fill customer orders and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely impacted. In addition, should our manufacturers be unable to produce our products at commercially reasonable costs, our gross margins would be negatively impacted. Our dependence on third party manufacturers can also adversely affect our ability to negotiate the terms of our future business relationships with these parties. Our revenue is concentrated with a limited number of customers. In 2005, our five largest customers accounted for 87% of our revenue. We do not require minimum purchase obligations from our customers, and they may cancel or reschedule orders at any time, prior to shipment, without significant penalty. Losing one or more key customers would adversely affect our results of operations. Our dependencies on sole-source suppliers may affect our control over delivery, quantity, quality and cost of products. We, or our third party contract manufacturers, obtain all the components to make our products from third parties. We rely heavily on certain sole-source suppliers (one supplier providing us with one or more components) to develop and/or manufacture critical components for our tape drives or libraries. A shortage of any component would directly affect our ability to manufacture the product. In addition, by relying on sole-source suppliers, we have risks related to: • delivering components on schedule; • manufacturing a high volume of components; • maintaining the highest possible product quality when manufacturing; and • managing manufacturing costs. If we are unable to obtain finished goods in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner to meet our customers’ needs, we may consider relocating certain of our third-party manufacturing activities to other suppliers. This process could interrupt the supply of products and we would incur additional costs related to any change in supplier. Managing our inventory levels is important to our cash position and results of operations. Excessive amounts of inventory reduces our cash available for operations and may result in charges for excess or obsolete materials. Inadequate inventory levels may make it difficult for us to meet customer product demand, resulting in decreased revenue. An inability to forecast future product revenue or estimated life cycles of products may result in inventory related charges that would negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The storage backup market is very competitive and such competition may cause us to decrease our product pricing or affect our market share. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than us. We can expect our competitors to aggressively market helical scan, mini cartridge, half-inch cartridge, optical or other storage product technologies. These technologies may be equivalent or superior to our own technologies, or may render some of our products non-competitive or obsolete. In order to compete under these pressures, we must adapt our technologies to competitive changes affecting speed, capacity and costs of storage products, including price erosion. 14 Table of Contents Technology typically changes and advances quickly in the high technology industry. In order to successfully compete in this industry, our future products must apply and extend our current technology, as well as keep pace with new technology developments. Factors which impact our ability to compete include: • rapid development of tape drive technologies; • customer and OEM adoption of VXA technology and our LTO automation products; • compatibility of tape drives to other data storage products; • data storage density and transfer rate; • customer confidence and familiarity with our products and technologies; • product reliability; and • price. If any new technology provides users with similar or increased benefits than tape, tape technology could become obsolete. Our proprietary rights may not be fully protected. Although we file patent applications for our products when appropriate, patents may not result from these applications, or they may not be broad enough to protect our technology. Other parties may also challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents. Occasionally, third parties ask us to indemnify them from infringement claims and defending these infringement claims may result in long and costly litigation, which could potentially invalidate a patent. We may attempt to secure a license from third parties to protect our technology but cannot assure that we would succeed. Much of our third party manufacturing utilizes proprietary technology, and we may extend licenses of this technology to our third party manufacturers. However, we cannot assure that our third party manufacturers will adhere to the limitations or confidentiality restrictions of their license. Also, laws in foreign jurisdictions may not fully protect our intellectual property rights, which, in turn, may adversely affect our ability to use such technology and our results of operations. We depend on key employees to develop, introduce and sell our products. There is intense competition for qualified employees. Competition for employees is based upon, among other things, base salary, stock-based compensation, ownership investment and high turnover rates in technology and other companies generally. As a result, we may lose or fail to recruit needed employees. Losing or failing to recruit a key employee could: • delay product development schedules; • interrupt team continuity; • result in losing proprietary information to competitors or other third parties; • increase our administrative costs; and • adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents 