Risk Factors. In fiscal 2008, we generated royalty revenues of $25.1 million and $16.6 million from Cortez and Robinson, respectively, representing 36% and 24%, respectively, of our total royalty revenue. In fiscal 2007, we generated royalty revenues of $21.5 million and $12.6 million from Cortez and Robinson, respectively, representing 44% and 26%, respectively, of our total royalty revenue. Competition The mining industry in general and the royalty segment in particular are intensely competitive. We compete with other royalty companies, mine operators and financial buyers in efforts to acquire existing royalties and with the lenders and investors providing debt and equity financing to operators of mineral properties in our efforts to create new royalties. Many of our competitors in the lending and mining business are larger than we are and have greater access to capital than we have. Key competitive factors in the royalty acquisition and financing business include price, structure and access to capital. Regulation Like all mining operations in the United States, the operators of the mines that are subject to our royalties must comply with environmental laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governments including, but not limited to, the National Environmental Policy Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act; and the Toxic Substances Control Act. Mines located on public lands are subject to the General Mining Law of 1872 and are subject to comprehensive regulation by either the United States Bureau of Land Management (an agency of the United States Department of the Interior) or the United States Forest Service (an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture). The mines also are subject to regulations of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the United States Mine Safety and Health Administration and similar state and local agencies. Operators of mines that are subject to our royalties in other countries are obligated to comply with similar laws and 6 Table of Contents regulations in those jurisdictions. Although we are not responsible as a royalty owner for ensuring compliance with these regulations, failure by the operators of the mines on which we have royalties to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits can result in injunctive action, damages and civil and criminal penalties on the operators which could reduce production from the mines and thereby reduce the royalties we receive and negatively affect our financial condition. Corporate Information We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on January 5, 1981. Our executive offices are located at 1660 Wynkoop Street, Suite 1000, Denver, Colorado 80202, (303) 573-1660. Available Information Royal Gold maintains an internet website at www.royalgold.com. Royal Gold makes available, free of charge, through the Investor Relations section of the web site, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our SEC filings are available from the SEC’s Internet site at www.sec.gov which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. These reports, proxy statements and other information may also be inspected and copied at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the public reference facilities. Royal Gold’s charters of key committees of its Board of Directors and its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available on the Company’s website. Any of the foregoing information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it by contacting Royal Gold’s Investor Relations Department at 303-573-1660. Company Personnel We currently have 16 employees, all of whom are located in Denver, Colorado. Our employees are not subject to a labor contract or a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be good. Consulting services, relating primarily to geologic and geophysical interpretations and also relating to such metallurgical, engineering, and other technical matters as may be deemed useful in the operation of our business, are primarily provided by independent contractors. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The market or trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks. In addition, please see our note about forward-looking statements included in Part II, Item 7, MD&A, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. 7 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We received a majority of our revenues in fiscal year 2008 from two properties. In fiscal year 2008, approximately 36% and 24% of our revenues were derived from our royalties at Cortez and the Robinson mine, respectively, compared to approximately 44% and 26% in fiscal year 2007, respectively. We expect that revenue from our royalties at Cortez and Robinson will continue to be a significant, though less dominant, contributor to our revenue in future periods. Furthermore, as Cortez and other mines on which we have royalties mature, like SJ Claims, we can expect overall declines in production over the years unless operators are able to replace reserves that are mined by mine expansion or successful new exploration. There can be no assurance that the operators of Cortez, SJ Claims or the other properties will be able to maintain or increase production or replace reserves as they are mined. We own passive interests in mining properties, and it is difficult or impossible for us to ensure properties are operated in our best interest. All of our current revenue is derived from royalties on properties operated by third parties. The holder of a royalty interest typically has no authority regarding development or operation of a mineral property. Therefore, we are not in control of basic decisions regarding development or operation of any of the properties in which we hold a royalty interest, and we have limited or no legal rights to influence those decisions. Our strategy of having others operate properties in which we retain a royalty or other passive interest puts us generally at risk to the decisions of others regarding all basic operating matters, including permitting, feasibility analysis, mine design and operation, processing, plant and equipment matters and temporary or permanent suspension of operations, among others. These decisions may be motivated by the best interests of the operator rather than to maximize royalties. Although we attempt to secure contractual rights that will permit us to protect our interests, there can be no assurance that such rights will always be available or sufficient, or that our efforts will be successful in achieving timely or favorable results or in affecting the operations of the properties in which we have royalty interests in ways that would be beneficial to our stockholders. Volatility in gold, copper and other metal prices may have an adverse impact on the value of our royalty interests and reduce our royalty revenues. The profitability of our royalty interests and exploration properties is directly related to the market price of gold and, to a lesser degree, copper and other metal prices. The market price of each metal fluctuates widely and is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of any mining company. These factors include metal supply, industrial and jewelry fabrication and investment demand, expectations with respect to the rate of inflation, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar and other currencies, interest rates, gold sales and loans by central banks, forward sales by metal producers, global or regional political, economic or banking crises, and a number of other factors. If the market price of gold, copper or certain other metals, should drop, our royalty revenues would also drop. Our sliding-scale royalties at Cortez, Taparko and other properties amplifies this. When the gold price falls below the steps in the sliding-scale royalty, we receive a lower royalty rate on production. In addition, if gold, copper and certain other metal prices drop dramatically, we might not be able to recover our investment in royalty interests or properties. The selection of a royalty investment or of a property for exploration or development, the determination to construct a mine and place it into production, and the dedication of funds necessary to achieve such purposes are decisions that must be made long before the first revenues from production will be received. Price fluctuations between the time that decisions about exploration, development and construction are made and the commencement of production can have a material adverse effect on the economics of a mine, and can eliminate or have a material adverse impact on the value of royalty interests. 8 Table of Contents The volatility in gold prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth, for the periods indicated (calendar year), the high and low prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of gold, based on the London P.M. fix. Gold Price Per Ounce ($) Year High Low 1999 326 253 2000 312 263 2001 293 256 2002 349 278 2003 416 320 2004 454 375 2005 537 411 2006 725 525 2007 841 608 2008 (through August 13, 2008) 1,011 818 The volatility in silver prices is illustrated by the following table which sets forth, for the periods indicated (calendar year), the high and low prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of silver, based on the London P.M. fix. Silver Price Per Ounce ($) Year High Low 1999 5.75 4.88 2000 5.45 4.57 2001 4.82 4.07 2002 5.10 4.24 2003 5.97 4.37 2004 8.29 5.50 2005 9.23 6.39 2006 14.94 8.83 2007 15.82 11.67 2008 (through August 13, 2008) 20.92 14.45 The volatility in copper prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth, for the periods indicated (calendar year), the high and low prices in U.S. dollars per pound of copper, based on the London Metal Exchange cash settlement price for copper Grade A. Copper Price Per Pound ($) Year High Low 1999 0.80 0.63 2000 0.89 0.76 2001 0.81 0.62 2002 0.75 0.67 2003 1.00 0.72 2004 1.43 1.10 2005 2.08 1.44 2006 3.65 2.15 2007 3.77 2.37 2008 (through August 13, 2008) 4.08 3.02 9 Table of Contents We depend on the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, our Executive Chairman and other key employees. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key executive management personnel. Currently, Tony Jensen is serving as President and Chief Executive Officer and Stanley Dempsey is serving as our Executive Chairman. Mr. Jensen’s extensive commercial experience, mine operations background and industry contacts gives us an important competitive advantage. Mr. Dempsey’s knowledge of the royalty business and long term standing relationship with the mining industry are important to the Company’s success. Loss of the services of Mr. Jensen, Mr. Dempsey or other key employees could jeopardize our ability to maintain our competitive position in the industry. We currently do not have key person life insurance for any of our officers or directors. Our revenues are subject to operational risks of the mining industry. Although we are not required to pay capital costs or most operating costs, our financial results are subject to hazards and risks normally associated with developing and operating mining properties, both for the properties where we have exploration alliances or indirectly for properties operated by others where we hold royalty interests. These risks include: • insufficient ore reserves; • fluctuations in production costs by the operators or third parties that may make mining of ore uneconomical or impact the amount of reserves; • declines in the price of gold and other metal prices; • significant environmental and other regulatory restrictions; • labor disputes; • geological problems; • pit walls or tailings dam failures; • natural catastrophes such as floods or earthquakes; and • the risk of injury to persons, property or the environment. Operating cost increases can have a negative effect on the value of and income from our royalty interests, by potentially causing an operator to curtail, delay or close operations at a mine site. Estimates of reserves and mineralization by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to significant revision. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating proven and probable reserves and mineralization, including many factors beyond our control or the control of the operators of mineral properties in which we have a royalty interest. Reserve estimates on our royalty interests are prepared by the operators of the mining properties. We do not participate in the preparation or verification of such reports and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information. The estimation of reserves and of other mineralization is a subjective process and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate, may cause revision of such estimates. The volume and grade of reserves recovered and rates of production may be less than anticipated. Assumptions about gold and other precious metal prices are subject to great uncertainty and such prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market price of gold or other precious metals also may render reserves or mineralization containing relatively lower grades of ore uneconomical to exploit. Changes in operating and capital costs and other factors 10 Table of Contents including short-term operating factors, such as the need for sequential development of ore bodies and the processing of new or different ore grades, may materially and adversely affect reserves. Estimates of production by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to change and actual production may vary materially from such estimates. Production estimates are prepared by the operators of the mining properties. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating anticipated production attributable to our royalty interests, including many factors beyond our control or the control of the operators of mineral properties in which we have royalty interests. We do not participate in the preparation or verification of production estimates and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information. The estimation of anticipated production is a subjective process and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data, reliability of production history, variability in grade encountered, mechanical or other problems encountered, engineering and geological interpretation and operator judgment. Rates of production may be less than anticipated. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate may cause actual production to vary materially from such estimates. We may incur substantially more indebtedness that could have adverse effects on our business. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future in connection with financing acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. Any such acquisition could be material to us and could significantly increase the size and scope of our business. If we were to incur substantial additional indebtedness, it may make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations and proceeds of any equity issuances to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt or have other adverse effects on us. Furthermore, if future debt financing is not available to us when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of opportunities to acquire additional royalties, or respond to competitive pressures or refinance maturing debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to successfully acquire additional royalty interests. Our future success depends upon our ability to acquire royalty interests at appropriate valuations, including through corporate acquisitions, to replace depleting reserves and to diversify our royalty portfolio. We anticipate that most of our revenues will be derived from royalty interests that we acquire or finance, rather than through exploration and development of properties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and complete the acquisition of such royalty interests, or businesses that own desired royalty interests, at reasonable prices or on favorable terms. In addition, we face competition in the acquisition of royalty interests. If we are unable to successfully acquire additional royalties, the reserves on properties currently covered by our royalties will decline as existing reserves are mined. Furthermore, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, our collaborative partners and employees if we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions of royalty interests or businesses that own desired royalty interests. Each of these factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock or financial results and operations. Acquired royalty interests may not produce anticipated royalty revenues. The royalty interests we acquire may not produce the anticipated royalty revenues. The success of our royalty acquisitions is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation and timing and amount of royalty payments, particularly acquisitions of royalties on development stage properties. If the operator does not bring the property into production and operate in accordance with 11 Table of Contents feasibility studies or other plans, acquired royalty interests may not yield royalty revenues or sufficient royalty revenues to be profitable. The Taparko project, which recently began production in Burkina Faso, and the Peñasquito project also in initial production in Mexico, represent our largest development stage royalty acquisitions to date. The principal royalty assets of Battle Mountain, which we acquired on October 24, 2007, include royalties on gold and silver production from the Dolores project in Mexico, which is under development. In addition, our Pascua-Lama royalty acquisition in Chile is in a pre-production stage. The failure of these projects to produce anticipated royalty revenues may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience operational and other difficulties if we complete one or more significant acquisitions. As part of our business model and growth strategy, we are engaged in a continual review of opportunities to acquire existing royalties, including acquiring companies that hold royalties. When we acquire a company, we may experience the need to hire additional personnel, difficulties in integrating the acquired company, increases in our general and administrative expenses and other related problems. Furthermore, as part of the acquisition of a company or a group of royalties, we may acquire operating or working interests and other assets outside of our core focus of precious metal royalties. In the event we experience these difficulties in connection with one or more acquisitions, our business or financial results may be adversely affected. Anticipated federal legislation could decrease our royalty revenues. In recent years, the United States Congress has considered a number of proposed major revisions to the General Mining Law of 1872 (the “General Mining Law”), which governs the creation and possession of mining claims and related activities on federal public lands in the United States. Several proposals, such as Bill H.R. 2262, introduced in the Congress in May 2007, if enacted, would impose a royalty payable to the U.S. Government on existing and future production of minerals from unpatented mining claims in the United States. If enacted, legislation such as H.R. 2262 could, among other provisions, render certain federal lands unavailable for the location of unpatented mining claims, afford greater public involvement in the mine permitting process, provide for citizen suits against miners operating on federal lands, and impose new and stringent environmental operating standards as well as new mined land reclamation requirements. If enacted, such legislation could adversely affect the development of new mines and the expansion of existing mines, as well as increase the cost of all mining operations on federal lands, perhaps materially and adversely affecting mine operators and therefore our royalty revenue. The effect of any revision of the General Mining Law on our royalty interests in the United States cannot be determined conclusively until such revision, if any, is enacted and challenges to the legislation, if any, have been finally resolved. In addition, a number of the properties on which we have royalties are located on U.S. federal lands that are subject to federal mining and other public land laws. Changes in such laws or regulations promulgated under such laws could affect mine development and expansion and significantly increase regulatory obligations and compliance costs with respect to mine development and mine operations, which could adversely affect our royalty revenue from such properties. By way of example, if a royalty, assessment, production tax, or other levy imposed on and measured by production is charged to the operator at Cortez, which is largely located on U.S. federal lands, the amount of that charge would be deducted from gross proceeds for calculation of our GSR1, GSR2 and GSR3 royalties, which would reduce our royalty revenues from these royalties. The mining industry is subject to significant environmental risks. Mining is subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and the disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral exploration and production. Laws and regulations in the United States and abroad intended to ensure the protection of the environment are constantly changing and generally are becoming more restrictive and costly. Insurance against environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal 12 Table of Contents of waste products occurring from exploration and production) is not generally available to the companies within the mining industry, such as the operators of the mines in which we hold a royalty interest, at a reasonable price. If an operator is forced to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations or becomes subject to environmental restrictions that limit its ability to continue or expand operations, it could reduce our royalty revenues. To the extent that we become subject to environmental liabilities for the time period during which we were operating properties, the satisfaction of any liabilities would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If title to properties are not properly maintained by the operators, our royalty revenues may be decreased. The validity of unpatented mining claims, which constitute a significant portion of the properties on which we hold royalties in the United States, is often uncertain and such validity is always subject to contest. Unpatented mining claims are generally considered subject to greater title risk than patented mining claims, or real property interests that are owned in fee simple. Because unpatented mining claims are self-initiated and self-maintained, they possess some unique vulnerabilities not associated with other types of property interests. It is impossible to ascertain the validity of unpatented mining claims from public real property records, and therefore it can be difficult or impossible to confirm that all of the requisite steps have been followed for location and maintenance of an unpatented mining claim. If title to unpatented mining claims included among our royalty properties has not been properly established or is not properly maintained, our royalty revenues could be adversely affected. Foreign operations are subject to many risks. We derived approximately 20% of our revenues from foreign sources in fiscal year 2008. Our foreign activities are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries. This includes exchange controls and currency fluctuations, limitations on repatriation of earnings, foreign taxation, foreign environmental laws and enforcement, expropriation or nationalization of property, labor practices and disputes, and uncertain political and economic environments. There are also risks of war and civil disturbances, as well as other risks that could cause exploration or development difficulties or stoppages, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation or loss of contract rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation, without fair compensation. Exploration licenses granted by some foreign countries do not include the right to mine. Each country has discretion in determining whether to grant a license to mine. If an operator cannot secure a mining license following exploration of a property, the value of our royalty interest would be negatively affected. Foreign operations could also be adversely impacted by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment, and taxation. We currently have interests in projects in Argentina, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Finland, Ghana, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua and Russia. We also evaluate precious metal royalty acquisitions or development opportunities in other parts of the world, including Canada, Central America, Europe, Australia, other Republics of the former Soviet Union, Asia, Africa and South America. We are also subject to the risks of operating in Burkina Faso, West Africa. Countries in the region have historically experienced periods of political uncertainty, exchange rate fluctuations, balance of payments and trade difficulties and problems associated with extreme poverty and unemployment. Any of these economic or political risks could adversely affect the Taparko project. Our operations in Mexico are subject to risks such as the effects of political developments and local unrest, and communal property issues. In the past, Mexico has experienced prolonged periods of weak economic conditions characterized by exchange rate instability, increased inflation and negative economic growth, all of which could occur again in the future. Any of these risks could adversely affect the Peñasquito and Dolores projects, as well as the Mulatos and El Chanate mines. 13 Table of Contents We hold a royalty interest in an exploration property that is subject to the risks of operating in Russia. The economy of the Russian Federation continues to display characteristics of an emerging market, including extensive currency controls and potentially high inflation. The prospects for future economic stability in the Russian Federation are largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic measures undertaken by the government, together with legal, regulatory and political developments. Russian laws, licenses and permits have been in a state of change and new laws may be given a retroactive effect. Our Martha royalty is subject to risks relating to operating in Argentina. Argentina, while currently economically and politically stable, has experienced political instability, currency fluctuations and changes in banking regulations in recent years. Future instability, currency value fluctuations or regulation changes could adversely affect our revenues from the Martha mine. Our Don Mario royalty, which we acquired in the Battle Mountain transaction on October 24, 2007, is subject to risks relating to operating in Bolivia. Bolivia has experienced political and social instability, corruption, regulation and tax law changes, an abundance of administrative procedures and the potential for nationalization of foreign business interests that could materially adversely affect the Don Mario mine. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may continue to be volatile and could decline. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may decline in the future. The high and low sale prices of our common stock were $41.66 and $18.74 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, $37.50 and $23.25 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 and $35.42 and $23.85 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The fluctuation of the market price of our common stock has been affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • market prices of gold and other metals; • interest rates; • expectations regarding inflation; • ability of operators to produce precious metals and develop new reserves; • currency values; • general stock market conditions; and • global and regional political and economic conditions. Additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could reduce our earnings per share. We may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. Any such acquisition could be material to us and could significantly increase the size and scope of our business. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders could be diluted and our earnings per share could be reduced. If a large number of shares of our common stock is sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future issuances by us of our common stock or other equity will have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, our shares of common stock that we issue in connection with an acquisition may not be subject to resale restrictions. We issued approximately 1.14 million shares of our common stock in connection with the acquisition of Battle Mountain, which 14 Table of Contents closed on October 24, 2007 and 3.98 million shares in connection with the conversion of all of our issued and outstanding Preferred Stock on March 10, 2008. We may issue substantial additional shares of common stock or other securities in connection with other acquisition transactions. The market price of our common stock could decline if certain large holders of our common stock, or recipients of our common stock in connection with an acquisition, sell all or a significant portion of their shares of common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales could also impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock in the capital markets. We may change our dividend policy. We have paid a cash dividend on our common stock for each fiscal year beginning in fiscal year 2000. Our board of directors has discretion in determining whether to declare a dividend based on a number of factors, including prevailing gold prices, economic market conditions, and funding requirements for future opportunities or operations. If our board of directors declines to declare dividends in the future, or reduces the current dividend level, our stock price could fall, and the success of an investment in our common stock would depend solely upon any future stock price appreciation in value. We have increased our dividends in prior years. There can be no assurance that we will continue to do so. For example, if we were to materially increase our borrowings to conduct a material acquisition, our board of directors could elect to modify our dividend policy and potentially reduce or eliminate dividends on common stock. Certain anti-takeover provisions could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for third parties to acquire control of us or to remove our management. Some of these provisions: • permit our board of directors to issue preferred stock that has rights senior to the common stock without stockholder approval; and • provide for three classes of directors serving staggered, three-year terms. We are also subject to the business combination provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter, or prevent a change in control. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder’s rights plan that imposes significant penalties upon a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of the board of directors. Any of these measures could prevent a third party from pursuing an acquisition of Royal Gold, even if stockholders believe the acquisition is in their best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 