ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The market or trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks. In addition, please see our note about forward-looking statements included in Part I, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Business Our revenues are largely dependent on a single property. In fiscal year 2007, approximately 44% of our revenues were derived from royalties from the Pipeline Mining Complex, compared to approximately 59% being derived from the Pipeline Mining Complex in fiscal year 2006. We expect that revenue from our royalties on the Pipeline Mining Complex will continue to be a significant, though less dominant, contributor to our revenue in future periods. The Pipeline Mining Complex will continue to be material to our results of operations. We own passive interests in mining properties and it is difficult or impossible for us to ensure properties are operated in our best interest. All of our current revenue is derived from royalties on properties operated by third parties. The holder of a royalty interest typically has no executive authority regarding development or operation of a mineral property. Therefore, we are not in control of basic decisions regarding development or operation of any of the properties in which we hold a royalty interest, and we have limited or no legal rights to influence those decisions. Our strategy of having others operate properties in which we retain a royalty or other passive interest puts us generally at risk to the decisions of others regarding all basic operating matters, including permitting, feasibility analysis, mine design and operation, processing, plant and equipment matters, and temporary or permanent suspension of operations, among others. These decisions may be motivated by the best interests of the operator rather than to maximize royalties. Although we attempt to secure contractual rights that will permit us to protect our interests, there can be no assurance that such rights will always be available or sufficient, or that our efforts will be successful in achieving timely or favorable results or in affecting the operations of the properties in which we have royalty interests in ways that would be beneficial to our stockholders. Volatility in gold and other metal prices may have an adverse impact on the value of our royalty interests and reduce our royalty revenues. The profitability of our royalty interests and exploration properties is directly related to the market price of gold and, to a lesser degree, other metals. The market price of each metal can fluctuate significantly and is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of any mining company. These factors include supply and demand fundamentals, expectations with respect to the rate of inflation, the relative strength of the U.S dollar and other currencies, interest rates, gold sales and loans by central banks, forward sales by metal producers, global or regional political, economic or banking crises, and a number of other factors. If the market price of gold, silver or copper should drop, our royalty revenues would also drop. Our 7 Table of Contents sliding-scale GSR1 royalty amplifies this. When the gold price falls below the steps in the sliding-scale GSR1 royalty, we receive a lower royalty rate on production. In addition, if the gold, silver or copper price drops dramatically, we might not be able to recover our investment in royalty interests or properties. The selection of a royalty investment or of a property for exploration or development, the determination to construct a mine and place it into production, and the dedication of funds necessary to achieve such purposes are decisions that must be made long before the first revenues from production will be received. Price fluctuations between the time that such decisions are made and the commencement of production can have a material adverse effect on the economics of a mine, and can eliminate or have a material adverse impact on the value of royalty interests. The volatility in gold prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth, for the periods indicated (calendar year), the high and low prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of gold, based on the London P.M. fix. Gold Price Per Ounce ($) Year High Low 1998 $ 313 $ 273 1999 326 253 2000 312 263 2001 293 256 2002 349 278 2003 416 320 2004 454 375 2005 537 411 2006 725 525 2007 (through August 15, 2007) 691 608 The volatility in silver prices is illustrated by the following table which sets forth, for the periods indicated (calendar year), the high and low prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of silver, based on the London P.M. fix. Silver Price Per Ounce ($) Year High Low 1998 $ 7.81 $ 4.69 1999 5.75 4.88 2000 5.45 4.57 2001 4.82 4.07 2002 5.10 4.24 2003 5.97 4.37 2004 8.29 5.50 2005 9.23 6.39 2006 14.94 8.83 2007 (through August 15, 2007) 14.58 12.21 8 Table of Contents The volatility in copper prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth, for the periods indicated (calendar year), the high and low prices in U.S. dollars per pound of copper, based on the London Metal Exchange cash settlement price for copper Grade A. Copper Price Per Pound ($) Year High Low 1998 $ 0.82 $ 0.67 1999 0.80 0.63 2000 0.89 0.76 2001 0.81 0.62 2002 0.75 0.67 2003 1.00 0.72 2004 1.43 1.10 2005 2.08 1.44 2006 3.65 2.15 2007 (through August 15, 2007) 3.73 2.37 We depend on the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, our Executive Chairman and other key employees. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key executive management personnel. Currently, Tony Jensen is serving as President and Chief Executive Officer and Stanley Dempsey is serving as our Executive Chairman. Mr. Jensen has extensive experience in mining operations. Mr. Dempsey’s knowledge of the legal and commercial aspects of royalties and his extensive contacts within the mining industry give us an important competitive advantage. Loss of the services of Mr. Jensen, Mr. Dempsey or other key employees could jeopardize our ability to maintain our competitive position in the industry. We currently do not have key person life insurance for any of our officers or directors. Our revenues are subject to operational risks of the mining industry. Although we are not required to pay operating costs, our financial results are subject to all of the hazards and risks normally associated with developing and operating mining properties, both for the properties where we have strategic exploration alliances or indirectly for properties operated by others where we hold royalty interests. These risks include: • insufficient ore reserves; • fluctuations in production costs by the operators or third parties that may make mining of ore uneconomic or impact the amount of reserves; • declines in the price of gold and other metals; • significant environmental and other regulatory restrictions; • labor disputes; 9 Table of Contents • geological problems; • pit walls or tailings dam failures; • natural catastrophes such as floods or earthquakes; and • the risk of injury to persons, property or the environment. Operating cost increases can have a negative effect on the value of and income from our royalty interests, and may cause an operator to curtail, delay or close operations at a mine site. Estimates of reserves and mineralization by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to significant revision. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating proven and probable reserves and mineralization, including many factors beyond our control or that of the operators of mineral properties in which we have a royalty interest. Reserve estimates on our royalty interests are prepared by the operators of the mining properties. We do not participate in the preparation or verification of such reports and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information. The estimation of reserves and of other mineralization is a subjective process and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretation, and judgment. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate, may cause revision of such estimates. The volume and grade of reserves recovered and rates of production may be less than anticipated. Assumptions about gold and other precious metal prices are subject to great uncertainty and such prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market price of gold or other precious metals also may render reserves or mineralization containing relatively lower grades of ore uneconomic to exploit. Changes in operating and capital costs and other factors including short-term operating factors, such as the need for sequential development of ore bodies and the processing of new or different ore grades, may materially and adversely affect reserves. Estimates of production by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to change. Production estimates are prepared by the operators of the mining properties. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating anticipated production attributable to our royalty interests, including many factors beyond our control or that of the operators of mineral properties in which we have royalty interests. We do not participate in the preparation or verification of production estimates and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information. The estimation of anticipated production is a subjective process and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data, reliability of production history, variability in grade encountered, mechanical or other problems encountered and engineering and geological interpretation and operator judgment. Rates of production may be less than anticipated. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate may cause actual production to vary materially from such estimates. 10 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully acquire additional royalty interests. Our future success depends upon our ability to acquire royalty interests at appropriate valuations, including through corporate acquisitions, to replace depleting reserves and to diversify our royalty portfolio. We anticipate that most of our revenues will be derived from royalty interests that we acquire or finance, rather than through exploration and development of properties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and complete the acquisition of such royalty interests, or businesses that own desired royalty interests, at reasonable prices or on favorable terms. In addition, we face competition in the acquisition of royalty interests. If we are unable to successfully acquire additional royalties, the reserves on properties currently covered by our royalties will decline as existing reserves are mined. Furthermore, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, our collaborative partners and employees if we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions of royalty interests or businesses that own desired royalty interests. Each of these factors may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock or financial results and operations. Acquired royalty interests may not produce anticipated royalty revenues. The royalty interests we acquire may not produce the anticipated royalty revenues. The success of our royalty acquisitions is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation and timing and amount of royalty payments, particularly acquisitions of royalties on development stage properties. If the operator does not bring the property into production and operate in accordance with feasibility studies, acquired royalty interests may not yield royalty revenues or sufficient royalty revenues to be profitable. The Taparko project in Burkina Faso and the Peñasquito project in Mexico represent our largest development stage royalty acquisitions to date. In addition, our Pascua-Lama acquisition in Chile is in a pre-production stage. The failure of these projects to produce anticipated royalty revenues may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Anticipated federal legislation could decrease our royalty revenues. In recent years, the United States Congress has considered a number of proposed major revisions of the General Mining Law, which governs the creation and possession of mining claims and related activities on federal public lands in the United States. It is possible that another bill may be introduced in the Congress and it is possible that a new law could be enacted. If a new mining law is enacted, it might impose a royalty upon production of minerals from federal lands and might contain new requirements for mined land reclamation, and similar environmental control and reclamation measures. It remains unclear to what extent new legislation may affect existing mining claims or operations, but it could raise the cost of mining operations, perhaps materially affecting operators and our royalty revenue. The effect of any revision of the General Mining Law on our royalty interests in the United States cannot be determined conclusively until such revision, if any, is enacted. The majority of our United States royalty interests are on public lands. If a royalty, assessment, production tax, or other levy imposed on and measured by production is charged to the operator at the Pipeline Mining Complex, the amount of that charge would be deducted from gross proceeds for calculation of our GSR1, GSR2 and GSR3 royalties, which would reduce our royalty revenues from these royalties. 11 Table of Contents The mining industry is subject to significant environmental risks. Mining is subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and the disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral exploration and production. Laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, intended to ensure the protection of the environment, are constantly changing and generally are becoming more restrictive and costly. Insurance against environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) is not generally available to the companies within the mining industry, such as the operators of the mines in which we hold a royalty interest, at a reasonable price. If an operator is forced to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations or becomes subject to environmental restrictions that limit its ability to continue or expand operations, it could reduce our royalty revenues. To the extent that we become subject to environmental liabilities for the time period during which we were operating properties, the satisfaction of any liabilities would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If title to properties are not properly maintained by the operators, our royalty revenues may be decreased. The validity of unpatented mining claims, which constitute a significant portion of the properties on which we hold royalties in the United States, is often uncertain and such validity is always subject to contest. Unpatented mining claims are generally considered subject to greater title risk than patented mining claims, or real property interests that are owned in fee simple. Because unpatented mining claims are self-initiated and self-maintained, they possess some unique vulnerabilities not associated with other types of property interests. It is impossible to ascertain the validity of unpatented mining claims from public real property records, and therefore it can be difficult or impossible to confirm that all of the requisite steps have been followed for location and maintenance of an unpatented mining claim. If title to unpatented mining claims included among our royalty properties is not properly maintained, our royalty revenues could be adversely affected. Foreign operations are subject to many risks. Our foreign activities are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries. This includes exchange controls and currency fluctuations, limitations on repatriation of earnings, foreign taxation, foreign environmental laws and enforcement, expropriation or nationalization of property, labor practices and disputes, and uncertain political and economic environments. There are also risks of war and civil disturbances, as well as other risks that could cause exploration or development difficulties or stoppages, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation or loss of contract rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation, without fair compensation. Exploration licenses granted by some foreign countries do not include the right to mine. Each country has discretion in determining whether to grant a license to mine. If an operator cannot secure a mining license following exploration of a property, the value of our royalty interest would be negatively affected. Foreign operations could also be adversely impacted by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment, and taxation. We currently have interests in projects in Argentina, Burkina Faso, Finland, Mexico, Russia and Chile. We also evaluate precious metal royalty acquisitions or development opportunities in other parts of the world, including Canada, Central America, Europe, Australia, other Republics of the former Soviet Union, Asia, Africa and South America. 12 Table of Contents We are also subject to the risks of operating in Burkina Faso, West Africa. Countries in the region have historically experienced periods of political uncertainty, exchange rate fluctuations, balance of payments and trade difficulties and problems associated with extreme poverty and unemployment. Any of these economic or political risks could adversely affect the Taparko project. Our operations in Mexico are subject to risks such as the effects of political developments and local unrest, and communal property issues. In the past, Mexico has experienced prolonged periods of weak economic conditions characterized by exchange rate instability, increased inflation and negative economic growth, all of which could occur again in the future. Any of these risks could adversely affect the Mulatos mine and the Peñasquito project. We hold a royalty interest in an exploration property that is subject to the risks of operating in Russia. The economy of the Russian Federation continues to display characteristics of an emerging market, including extensive currency controls and potentially high inflation. The prospects for future economic stability in the Russian Federation are largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic measures undertaken by the government, together with legal, regulatory and political developments. Russian laws, licenses and permits have been in a state of change and new laws may be given a retroactive effect. Our Martha royalty is subject to risks relating to operating in Argentina. Argentina, while currently economically and politically stable, has experienced political instability, currency fluctuations and changes in banking regulations in recent years. Future instability, currency value fluctuations or regulation changes could adversely affect our revenues from the Martha mine. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may continue to be volatile and could decline. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may decline in the future. The high and low sale prices of our common stock were $20.50 and $12.30 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, $41.66 and $18.74 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 and $37.50 and $23.25 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The fluctuation of the market price of our common stock has been affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • market prices of gold and other metals; • interest rates; • expectations regarding inflation; • ability of operators to produce precious metals and develop new reserves; • currency values; • general stock market conditions; and • global and regional political and economic conditions. 13 Table of Contents We may change our dividend policy. We have declared a cash dividend on our Common Stock for each fiscal year beginning in fiscal year 2000. Our board of directors has discretion in determining whether to declare a dividend based on a number of factors, including prevailing gold prices, economic market conditions and funding requirements for future opportunities or operations. If our board of directors declines to declare dividends in the future, or reduces the current dividend level, our stock price could fall, and the success of an investment in our Common Stock would depend solely upon any future stock price appreciation in value. Certain anti-takeover provisions could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation may make it more difficult for third parties to acquire control of us or to remove our management. Some of these provisions are: • Permit our board of directors to issue preferred stock that has rights senior to the Common Stock without shareholder approval; and • Provide for three classes of directors serving staggered, three-year terms. We are also subject to the business combination provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. In addition, we have adopted a Stockholder’s Rights Plan that imposes significant penalties upon a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding Common Stock without the approval of the board of directors. Any of these measures could prevent a third party from pursuing an acquisition of Royal Gold, even if shareholders believe the acquisition is in their best interests. 