ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The market or trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks. In addition, please see our note about forward-looking statements included in Part II, Item 7, MD&A, of this report. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Business We own passive interests in mining properties, and it is difficult or impossible for us to ensure properties are operated in our best interest. All of our current revenue is derived from royalties on properties operated by third parties. Royalty holders typically have no authority for or control over decisions regarding development or operation of properties on which they hold royalty interests. We have limited or no legal rights to influence those decisions on our royalty properties. 6 Table of Contents Our strategy of having third parties operate properties on which we retain a royalty or other passive interest exposes us to the risks created by decisions made by the operators regarding all operating matters, including permitting, feasibility analysis, mine design and operation, processing, plant and equipment matters and temporary or permanent suspension of operations, among others. These decisions are likely to be motivated by the best interests of the operator rather than to maximize royalties. When we create new royalties, we attempt to secure contractual rights, such as audit or access rights, that will permit us to protect our interests, but there can be no assurance that such rights will always be available or sufficient, or that our efforts will be successful in affecting the operation of the properties in which we have royalty interests in ways that would be beneficial to our stockholders. Volatility in gold, silver, copper, nickel and other metal prices may have an adverse impact on the value of our royalty interests and reduce our royalty revenues. Certain of our royalty contracts have features that may amplify the negative effects of a drop in commodity prices. The profitability of our royalty interests is directly related to the market price of gold, silver, copper, nickel and other metals. Market prices may fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the control of any mining company, including metal supply, industrial and jewelry fabrication and investment demand, expectations with respect to the rate of inflation, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar and other currencies, interest rates, gold purchases, sales and loans by central banks, forward sales by metal producers, global or regional political, economic or banking conditions, and a number of other factors. If gold, silver, copper, nickel and certain other metal prices drop dramatically, we might not be able to recover our initial investment in royalty interests or properties. Moreover, the selection of a property for exploration or development, the determination to construct a mine and place it into production, and the dedication of funds necessary to achieve such purposes are decisions that must be made long before the first revenues from production will be received. Price fluctuations between the time that decisions about exploration, development and construction are made and the commencement of production can have a material adverse effect on the economics of a mine and can eliminate or have a material adverse impact on the value of royalty interests. Furthermore, if the market price of gold, silver, copper, nickel or certain other metals declines, then our royalty revenues would also fall. Our sliding-scale royalties, such as Cortez, Holt, Mulatos, Wolverine and others, amplify this effect. When metal prices fall below a certain mark in a sliding-scale royalty, a lower royalty rate is applied to production. In addition, certain of our royalty agreements, such as Andacollo, Robinson, Peñasquito and Voisey's Bay, are based on the operator's concentrate sales to smelters, which include price adjustments between the operator and the smelter based on commodity prices at a later date, typically three to five months. In such cases, our royalty payments from the operator include a component of these later adjustments, which can result in decreased royalty revenue in later periods if commodity prices have fallen. Volatility in gold, silver, copper and nickel prices is demonstrated by the annual high and low prices for those metals from selected years during the past decade. High and low gold prices per ounce, based on the London Bullion Market Association P.M. fix, have ranged from $293 to $256 in 2001, from $537 to $411 in 2005, from $1,212 to $810 in 2009, and from $1,719 to $1,313 year to date. High and low silver prices per ounce, based on the London Bullion Market Association fix, have ranged from $4.82 to $4.07 in 2001, from $9.23 to $6.39 in 2005, from $19.18 to $10.51 in 2009, and from $48.44 to $26.84 year to date. High and low copper prices per pound, based on the London Metal Exchange cash settlement price for Grade A copper, have ranged from $0.81 to $0.62 in 2001, from $2.08 to $1.44 in 2005, from $3.33 to $1.38 in 2009, and from $4.62 to $3.94 year to date. High and low nickel prices per pound, based on the London Metal Exchange cash settlement price for nickel, have ranged from $3.40 to $1.97 in 2001, from $8.12 to $5.22 in 2005, from $9.31 to $4.25 in 2009, and from $13.28 to $9.62 year to date. 7 Table of Contents Our revenues are subject to operational and other risks faced by operators of our mining properties. Although we are not required to pay capital costs (except as contractually obligated to as part of the Mt. Milligan transaction) or operating costs, our financial results are indirectly subject to hazards and risks normally associated with developing and operating mining properties where we hold royalty interests. Some of these risks include: •insufficient ore reserves; •fluctuations in production costs incurred by operators or third parties that may impact the amount of reserves available to be mined, cause an operator to delay or curtail mining operations or render mining of ore uneconomical and cause an operator to close operations; •declines in the price of gold, silver, copper, nickel and other metals; •mine operating and ore processing facility problems; •economic downturns and operators' insufficient financing; •significant environmental and other regulatory permitting requirements and restrictions and any changes thereto; •challenges by non-mining interests to existing permits and mining rights, and to applications for permits and mining rights; •community unrest, labor disputes or work stoppages at mines; •geological problems; •pit wall or tailings dam failures or any underground stability issues; •natural catastrophes such as floods or earthquakes; •injury to persons, property or the environment; •the ability of the operators to maintain or increase production or replace reserves as properties are mined; and •uncertain foreign political and economic environments. Acquired royalty interests, particularly on development stage properties, are subject to the risk that they may not produce anticipated royalty revenues. The royalty interests we acquire may not produce anticipated royalty revenues. The success of our royalty acquisitions is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, timing and amount of royalty payments, particularly with respect to acquisitions of royalties on development stage properties. If an operator does not bring a property into production and operate in accordance with feasibility studies, technical or reserve reports or other plans, then the acquired royalty interest may not yield sufficient royalty revenues to be profitable. Furthermore, operators of development stage properties must obtain all necessary environmental permits and access to water, power and other raw materials needed to begin production, and there can be no assurance operators will be able to do so. Pascua-Lama in Chile and the Mt. Milligan mining project in Canada, are among our principal development stage royalty acquisitions. The failure of any of these projects to produce anticipated royalty revenues may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We depend on our operators for the calculation of royalty payments. We may not be able to detect errors and payment calculations may call for retroactive adjustments. Our royalty payments are calculated by the operators of the properties on which we have royalties based on their reported production. Each operator's calculation of our royalty payments is subject to and dependent upon the adequacy and accuracy of its production and accounting functions, and, given the complex nature of mining and ownership of mining interests, errors may occur from time to time in the various calculations made by an operator that may render calculations of our royalty payments inaccurate. Certain royalty agreements require the operators to provide us with production and operating information that may, depending on the completeness and accuracy of such information, enable us to detect errors in the calculation of royalty payments that we receive. We do not, however, have the contractual right to receive production information for all of our royalty interests. As a result, our ability to detect royalty payment errors through our royalty monitoring program and its associated internal controls and procedures is limited, and the possibility exists that we will need to make retroactive royalty revenue adjustments. Some of our royalty contracts provide us the right to audit the operational calculations and production data for the associated royalty payments; however, such audits may occur many months following our recognition of the royalty revenue and may require us to adjust our royalty revenue in later periods. Development and operation of mines is very capital intensive and any inability of the operators of our royalty properties to meet liquidity needs, obtain financing or operate profitably could have material adverse effects on the value of and revenue from our royalty interests. The development and operation of mines is very capital intensive, and if operators of our royalty properties do not have the financial strength or sufficient credit or other financing capability to cover the costs of developing or operating a mine, the operator may curtail, delay or cease development or operations at a mine site. Operators' ability to raise and service significant, sufficient capital may be affected by, among other things, macroeconomic conditions, future gold, silver, copper, nickel and other metal prices, or a further dislocation in the U.S. or global financial markets as experienced in recent years. If any of the operators of our royalty properties suffer these material adverse effects, then our royalty interests and the value of and revenue from our royalty interests may be materially adversely affected. Certain of our royalty interests are subject to payment or production caps or rights in favor of the operator or third parties that could reduce the revenues generated from the royalty assets. Some of our principal royalty interests are subject to limitations, such that the royalty will extinguish after threshold production is achieved or royalty payments at stated thresholds are made. For example, a portion of our royalty at Pascua-Lama and our royalty at Mulatos are subject to production caps. Furthermore, other of our royalty agreements contain rights that favor the operator or third parties. For example, Osisko, the operator of Canadian Malartic, one of our principal development properties, exercised its buy-down right that reduced our royalty interest from a 3% NSR to a 1% NSR. Also, certain individuals from whom we purchased portions of our royalty interest at Pascua-Lama, another of our principal development properties, are entitled to one-time payments if the price of gold exceeds certain thresholds. If any of these thresholds are met or similar rights are exercised, our future royalty revenue could be reduced. We may enter into acquisitions or other material royalty transactions at any time. We are engaged in a continual review of opportunities to acquire existing royalties, to create new royalty assets or similar interests through the financing of mining projects or to acquire companies that hold royalties. We currently, and generally at any time, have acquisition opportunities in various stages of active review, including, for example, our engagement of consultants and advisors to analyze 9 Table of Contents particular opportunities, technical, financial and other confidential information, submission of indications of interest, obtaining or providing debt commitments for acquisition financing, participation in discussions regarding serving as a financing source in connection with royalty acquisitions, and involvement as a bidder in competitive auctions. Any such acquisition could be material to us and could significantly increase the size and scope of our business. In such event, we could issue substantial amounts of common stock or incur substantial additional indebtedness to fund the acquisition. Issuances of common stock may reduce some or all of our financial measures on a per share basis. In addition, we may consider opportunities to restructure our royalties where we believe such restructuring would provide a long-term benefit to the Company, though such restructuring may reduce near-term revenues. We could enter into one or more acquisition or restructuring transactions at any time. We have incurred indebtedness in connection with our royalty acquisitions and could incur substantial additional indebtedness that could have adverse effects on our business. As of June 30, 2011, the Company had $226.1 million outstanding under its existing credit facilities, which limits the cash flow available to fund acquisitions. In addition, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in connection with financing acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. If we were to incur substantial additional indebtedness, it may become difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations and proceeds of any equity issuances to payments on our indebtedness, any of which results may place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that may have less debt or have other adverse effects upon us. We may be unable to successfully acquire additional royalty and other similar interests at reasonable prices or on favorable terms. Our future success largely depends upon our ability to acquire royalty or similar interests at appropriate valuations, including through asset and corporate acquisitions and financings, to replace depleting reserves. Most of our revenues are derived from royalty and other similar interests that we acquire or finance, rather than through exploration of properties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and complete the acquisition of such royalty interests, or businesses that own desired royalty interests, at reasonable prices or on favorable terms, or, if necessary, that we will have sufficient financing on reasonable terms to complete such acquisitions. In addition, we face competition in the acquisition of royalty and other similar interests. If we are unable to successfully acquire additional royalties or other similar interests, the reserves subject to our royalties will decline as the producing royalty properties are mined or payment or production caps on certain of our royalties are met. We also may experience negative reactions from the financial markets or operators of properties on which we seek royalties and other similar interests if we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions of royalty interests or businesses that own desired royalty interests. Each of these factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock or our financial condition or results of operations. Estimates of production by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to change, and actual production may vary materially from such estimates. Production estimates are prepared by the operators of mining properties. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating anticipated production attributable to our royalty interests, including many factors beyond our control and the control of the operators of our royalty properties. We do not participate in the preparation or verification of production estimates and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information. The estimation of anticipated 10 Table of Contents production is a subjective process and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data, reliability of production history, variability in grade encountered, mechanical or other problems encountered, engineering and geological interpretation and operator judgment. Rates of production may be less than expected. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production, changes in commodity prices, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate may cause actual production to vary materially from such estimates. Estimates of reserves and mineralization by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to significant revision. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating proven and probable reserves and mineralization, including many factors beyond our control and the control of the operators of our royalty properties. Reserve estimates on our royalty interests are prepared by the operators of the mining properties. We do not participate in the preparation or verification of such reports and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information. The estimation of reserves and of other mineralized material is a subjective process, and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate, may cause a revision of such estimates. The volume and grade of reserves recovered and rates of production may be less than anticipated. Assumptions about gold and other precious metal prices are subject to great uncertainty, and such prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market price of gold, silver, copper, nickel or other metals also may render reserves or mineralized material containing relatively lower ore grades uneconomical to exploit. Changes in operating costs and other factors including geotechnical characteristics and metallurgical recovery, may materially and adversely affect reserves. Finally, it is important to note that our royalties give us interests in only a portion of the production from the operators' aggregate reserves, and those interests vary widely based on the individual royalty documents. Our disclosure controls and internal control over our financial reporting are subject to inherent limitations. Management has concluded that as of the period ended June 30, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were effective. Such controls and procedures, however, may not be adequate to prevent or identify existing or future internal control weaknesses due to inherent limitations that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, our dependence on operators for the calculations of royalty payments as discussed in a previous risk factor. Given our dependence on third party calculations, there is a risk that material misstatements in results of operations and financial condition may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by our internal controls over financial reporting and may require us to restate our financial statements. Royalty interests are subject to title and other defects and contest by operators of mining projects and holders of mining rights, and these risks may be hard to identify in acquisition transactions. While Royal Gold seeks to confirm the existence, validity, enforceability and geographic extent of the royalties it acquires, there can be no assurance that disputes over these and other matters will not arise. Confirming title to mining property on which we hold or seek to acquire a royalty is a complex matter in many jurisdictions, and is subject to the application of the laws of each jurisdiction to the particular circumstances of each parcel of mining property. Similarly, our royalty interests generally are subject to uncertainties and complexities arising from the application of contract and property laws governing private parties and/or local or national governments in the jurisdiction where mining projects are located. Furthermore, royalties in many jurisdictions are contractual in nature, rather than interests in land, and therefore may be subject to change of control, bankruptcy or insolvency of operators, and to challenges of various kinds brought by operators or third parties. We do not usually have the 11 Table of Contents protection of security interests over property that we could liquidate to recover all or part of our royalty investment. Disputes also could arise challenging, among other things, the existence or geographic extent of the royalty, third party claims to the same royalty asset or to the property on which we have a royalty, various rights of the operator or third parties in or to the royalty, methods for calculating the royalty, production and other thresholds and caps applicable to royalty payments, the obligation of an operator to make royalty payments, and various defects in the royalty agreement itself. Unknown defects in the royalties we acquire may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, and could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Changes in federal and state legislation could decrease our royalty revenues. A number of our royalty properties are located on U.S. federal lands that are subject to federal mining and other public land laws. Changes in federal or state laws or the regulations promulgated under them could affect mine development and expansion, significantly increase regulatory obligations and compliance costs with respect to mine development and mine operations, increase the cost of holding mining claims or impose additional taxes on mining operations, all of which could adversely affect our royalty revenue from such properties. In recent years, the United States Congress has considered a number of proposed major revisions to the General Mining Law of 1872 (the "General Mining Law"), which governs the creation, maintenance and possession of mining claims and related activities on federal public lands in the United States. Congress also has considered bills recently, which if enacted, would impose royalties payable to the government on hardrock production, increase land holding fees, impose federal reclamation fees, impose additional environmental operating standards and afford greater public involvement and regulatory discretion in the mine permitting process. Such legislation, if enacted, could adversely affect the development of new mines and the expansion of existing mines, as well as increase the cost of all mining operations on federal lands, perhaps materially and adversely affecting mine operators and, therefore, our royalty revenue. Foreign operations and operation by foreign operators are subject to many risks. We derived approximately 76% of our revenues from foreign sources during fiscal 2011, compared to 60% in fiscal 2010. Our principal producing royalties on properties outside of the United States are located in Australia, Canada, Chile, Mexico and Spain. We currently have interests in mines and projects outside of the United States in Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Finland, Ghana, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Peru, Siguiri, Russia, Spain and Tunisia. Our foreign activities are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries. These risks include, depending on the country, such things as volatile exchange controls and currency fluctuations, high rates of inflation, limitations on repatriation of earnings, foreign taxation, enforcement of unfamiliar or uncertain foreign real estate, contract and environmental laws, expropriation or nationalization of property, labor practices and disputes, changes in legislation that could substantially increase the cost of mining operations, renegotiation or nullification of existing licenses, permits, approvals or the like, war, crime, terrorism, civil unrest and uncertain political and economic environments. For example, recently proposed tax legislation in Australia and other foreign jurisdictions could impose large tax obligations on operators that could materially adversely affect the feasibility of new mine development and the profitability of existing mining operations. In addition, many of our operators are organized outside of the United States. Our royalty interests may be subject to the application of foreign laws to our operators, and their stockholders, including laws relating to foreign ownership structures, corporate transactions, creditors' rights, bankruptcy and liquidation. Foreign operations also could be adversely impacted by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation. 12 Table of Contents The mining industry is subject to significant environmental risks. Mining is subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and the disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral exploration and production. Laws and regulations in the United States and abroad intended to ensure the protection of the environment are constantly changing and generally are becoming more restrictive and costly. Furthermore, mining may be subject to significant environmental and other permitting requirements regarding the use of raw materials, particularly water, needed for operations. If an operator is forced to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations or becomes subject to environmental restrictions that limit its ability to continue or expand operations, or if an operator were to lose its right to use or access water or other raw materials necessary to operate a mine, our royalty revenues could be reduced, delayed, or eliminated. These risks are most salient with regard to our development stage royalty properties where permitting may not be complete and where new legislation and regulation can lead to delays, interruptions and significant unexpected cost burdens for mine operators. For example, legislation was enacted in Argentina (but subsequently suspended by litigation) which could stop or curtail mining activities on or near the country's glaciers. We have royalty interests on the Chilean side of the Pascua-Lama Project, which straddles the border between Chile and Argentina, and the new legislation in Argentina, if upheld in the litigation, could affect the feasibility, design, development and operation of the Pascua-Lama Project. Further, to the extent that we become subject to environmental liabilities for the time period during which we were operating properties, the satisfaction of any liabilities would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs to the operators of the properties on which we have royalties. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which ends in 2012, established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for countries that have ratified the Protocol, which include Canada, Ghana, Australia and Peru. Furthermore, the U.S. Congress and several states have initiated legislation regarding climate change that will affect energy prices and demand for carbon intensive products. Additionally, the Australian Government may potentially reintroduce a national emissions trading scheme and mandatory renewable energy targets. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on the operators of our royalty properties, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. If an operator of a property on which we have royalty interests is forced to incur significant costs to comply with climate change regulation or becomes subject to environmental restrictions that limit its ability to continue or expand operations, our royalty revenues from that property could be reduced, delayed, or eliminated. We depend on the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer and other key employees and on the participation of our Chairman. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key executive management personnel. Currently, Tony Jensen is serving as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Jensen's extensive commercial experience, mine operations background and industry contacts give us an important competitive advantage. Furthermore, our Chairman, Stanley Dempsey, who served as our Executive Chairman until his retirement as an officer of the Company in January 2009, remains closely involved with us. Mr. Dempsey's knowledge of the royalty business and long-standing relationship with the mining industry are important to our success. The loss of the services of Mr. Jensen or other key employees could jeopardize our ability to maintain our competitive position in the industry. We currently do not have key person life insurance for any of our officers or directors. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may continue to be volatile and could decline. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may decline in the future. The high and low sale prices of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market were $49.81 and $22.75 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, $55.96 and $37.35 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and $62.33 and $42.15 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. The fluctuation of the market price of our common stock has been affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: •market prices of gold, silver, copper, nickel and other metals; •interest rates; •expectations regarding inflation; •ability of operators to produce precious metals and develop new reserves; •currency values; •credit market conditions; •general stock market conditions; and •global and regional political and economic conditions. Additional issuances of equity securities by us could reduce some or all of our financial measures on a per share basis, reduce the trading price of our common stock or impede our ability to raise future capital. We may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, some or all of our financial measures on a per share basis could be reduced. In addition, the shares of common stock that we issue in connection with an acquisition may not be subject to resale restrictions. The market price of our common stock could decline if certain large holders of our common stock, or recipients of our common stock in connection with an acquisition, sell all or a significant portion of their shares of common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales also could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock in the capital markets. We may change our practice of paying dividends. We have paid a cash dividend on our common stock for each fiscal year beginning in fiscal year 2000. Our board of directors has discretion in determining whether to declare a dividend based on a number of factors, including prevailing gold prices, economic market conditions and funding requirements for future opportunities or operations. If our board of directors declines to declare dividends in the future or reduces the current dividend level, our stock price could fall, and the success of an investment in our common stock would depend largely upon any future stock price appreciation. We have increased our dividends in prior years. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to do so or that we will pay any at all. Certain anti-takeover provisions could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for third parties to acquire control of us or to remove our management. Some of these provisions: •permit our board of directors to issue preferred stock that has rights senior to the common stock without stockholder approval; 14 Table of Contents •provide for three classes of directors serving staggered, three-year terms; and •require certain advanced notice of information relating to stockholder nominations and proposals. We are also subject to the business combination provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder's rights plan that imposes significant penalties upon a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of the board of directors. Any of these measures could prevent a third party from pursuing an acquisition of Royal Gold, even if stockholders believe the acquisition is in their best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 