ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The market or trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks. In addition, please see our note about forward-looking statements included in Part II, Item 7, MD&A, of this report. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Business We received significant revenue in fiscal year 2009 from Cortez, and this maturing mine is likely to experience production declines. Approximately 22%, and 33% of our revenues were derived from Cortez in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect that revenue from our royalties at Cortez will continue to be a significant contributor to our revenue in future periods. However, as Cortez and other mines on which we have royalties mature, we can expect overall declines in production over the years unless operators are able to replace reserves that are mined through mine expansion or successful new exploration. There can be no assurance that the operators of Cortez or our other properties will be able to maintain or increase production or replace reserves as they are mined. We own passive interests in mining properties, and it is difficult or impossible for us to ensure properties are operated in our best interest. All of our current revenue is derived from royalties on properties operated by third parties. The holder of a royalty interest typically has no authority regarding the development or operation of a mineral property. Therefore, we are not in control of decisions regarding development or operation of any of the properties on which we hold a royalty interest, and we have limited or no legal rights to influence those decisions. Our strategy of having others operate properties on which we retain a royalty or other passive interest puts us generally at risk to the decisions of others regarding all operating matters, including permitting, feasibility analysis, mine design and operation, processing, plant and equipment matters and temporary or permanent suspension of operations, among others. These decisions are likely to be motivated by the best interests of the operator rather than to maximize royalties. Although we attempt to secure contractual rights, such as audit or access rights when we create new royalties, that will permit us to protect our interests, there can be no assurance that such rights will always be available or sufficient, or that our efforts will be successful in achieving timely or favorable results or in affecting the operation of the properties in which we have royalty interests in ways that would be beneficial to our stockholders. Volatility in gold, silver, copper and other metal prices may have an adverse impact on the value of our royalty interests and reduce our royalty revenues. The profitability of our royalty interests is directly related to the market price of gold, silver, copper and other metal prices. The market price of each metal may fluctuate widely and is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of any mining company. These factors include metal supply, industrial and jewelry fabrication and investment demand, expectations with respect to the rate of inflation, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar and other currencies, interest rates, gold sales and loans by central banks, forward sales by metal producers, global or regional political, economic or banking crises and a number of other factors. If the market price of gold, copper or certain other metals should drop, then our royalty revenues could also drop. Our sliding-scale royalties at Cortez, Taparko and other properties amplify this effect. 9 Table of Contents When the gold price falls below a certain mark in a sliding-scale royalty, we receive a lower royalty rate on production. Furthermore, if gold, copper and certain other metal prices drop dramatically, we might not be able to recover our initial investment in royalty interests or properties. In addition, certain royalty agreements, such as that in place for our interest at Robinson, provide that royalty payments to us are subject to subsequent adjustment based on commodity prices at a later date, three to four months in the case of Robinson, which can result in adjustments to our royalty revenue in later periods. Hence, we may experience positive or negative adjustments to recognized royalty revenues based on changes in commodity prices. Moreover, the selection of a royalty investment or of a property for exploration or development, the determination to construct a mine and place it into production, and the dedication of funds necessary to achieve such purposes are decisions that must be made long before the first revenues from production will be received. Price fluctuations between the time that decisions about exploration, development and construction are made and the commencement of production can have a material adverse effect on the economics of a mine and can eliminate or have a material adverse impact on the value of royalty interests. The volatility in gold prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth, for the periods indicated (calendar year), the high and low prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of gold, based on the London P.M. fix. Gold Price Per Ounce ($) Year High Low 2000 312 263 2001 293 256 2002 349 278 2003 416 320 2004 454 375 2005 537 411 2006 725 525 2007 841 608 2008 1,011 713 2009 (through August 14, 2009) 989 810 The volatility in silver prices is illustrated by the following table which sets forth, for the periods indicated (calendar year), the high and low prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of silver, based on the London daily fix. Silver Price Per Ounce ($) Year High Low 2000 5.45 4.57 2001 4.82 4.07 2002 5.10 4.24 2003 5.97 4.37 2004 8.29 5.50 2005 9.23 6.39 2006 14.94 8.83 2007 15.82 11.67 2008 20.92 8.88 2009 (through August 14, 2009) 15.97 10.51 10 Table of Contents The volatility in copper prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth, for the periods indicated (calendar year), the high and low prices in U.S. dollars per pound of copper, based on the London Metal Exchange cash settlement price for copper Grade A. Copper Price Per Pound ($) Year High Low 2000 0.89 0.76 2001 0.81 0.62 2002 0.75 0.67 2003 1.00 0.72 2004 1.43 1.10 2005 2.08 1.44 2006 3.65 2.15 2007 3.77 2.37 2008 4.08 1.26 2009 (through August 14, 2009) 2.90 1.38 Our revenues are subject to operational and other risks faced by operators of our mining properties. Although we are not required to pay capital costs or operating costs, our financial results are subject to hazards and risks normally associated with developing and operating mining properties, both for the properties where we may conduct exploration or indirectly for properties operated by others where we hold royalty interests. These risks include: • insufficient ore reserves; • fluctuations in production costs incurred by operators or third parties that may make mining of ore uneconomical or impact the amount of reserves; • declines in the price of gold and other metals; • mine operating and ore processing facility problems; • economic downturns and operators’ insufficient financing; • significant environmental and other regulatory permitting requirements and restrictions; • challenges by non-mining interests to existing permits and mining rights, and to applications for permits and mining rights; • community unrest and labor disputes; • geological problems; • pit wall or tailings dam failures; • natural catastrophes such as floods or earthquakes; and • the risk of injury to persons, property or the environment. Operating cost increases can have a negative effect on the value of and income from our royalty interests by potentially causing an operator to curtail, delay or close operations at a mine site. We depend on our operators for the calculation of royalty payments, and we may not be able to detect errors, or payment calculations may call for retroactive adjustments. Our royalty payments are calculated by the operators of the properties on which we have royalties based on their reported production. Each operator’s calculation of our royalty payments is subject to and dependent upon the adequacy of its production and accounting functions, and errors may occur from time 11 Table of Contents to time in the calculations made by an operator. For example, the complex nature of mining and ownership of mining interests can result in errors regarding allocation of production, such as those that occurred in connection with our restatement of our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2008. Certain royalty agreements require the operators to provide us with production and operating information that may, depending on the completeness and accuracy of such information, enable us to detect errors in the calculation of royalty payments that we receive. We do not, however, have the contractual right to receive production information for all of our royalty interests. As a result, our ability to detect royalty payment errors through our royalty monitoring program and its associated internal controls and procedures is limited, and the possibility exists that we will need to make retroactive royalty revenue adjustments. Some of our royalty contracts provide us the right to audit the operational calculations and production data for the associated royalty payments; however, such audits may occur many months following our recognition of the royalty revenue and may require us to adjust our royalty revenue in later periods. In addition, certain royalty agreements, such as our royalty agreement for the Robinson mine, provide that royalty payments to us are subject to subsequent adjustment based on commodity prices at a later date, three to four months in the case of Robinson, which can result in adjustments to our royalty revenue in later periods. Hence, audits of payments with these terms may result in the recognition by us of retroactive changes to previously disclosed royalty revenues. Our disclosure controls and internal control over our financial reporting are subject to inherent limitations. Management has concluded that as of the period ended June 30, 2009, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were effective. Such controls and procedures, however, may not be adequate to prevent or identify existing or future internal control weaknesses due to inherent limitations that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, our dependence on operators for the calculations of royalty payments as discussed in the above risk factor. As an example, we concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, because we were not able to timely detect an operator’s incorrect calculation of a certain royalty payment. As a result, we restated our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 (please see Item 9A of our Form 10-K/A, filed on November 6, 2008, and Item 4 of Part I of our Form 10-Q filed on November 10, 2008, for further discussion of the material weakness and restatement). While we believe we have remedied such material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, inherent limitations that are beyond our control remain and there is a risk that material misstatements in results of operations and financial condition may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by our internal controls over financial reporting and may require us to restate our financial statements. This could, in turn, adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and there is a risk that repeated restatements could result in an investigation by the SEC. If the current economic downturn, challenging credit markets and depressed prices of certain commodities is prolonged, it may affect the ability of the operators of the properties on which we have royalties to meet liquidity needs or operate profitably, which in turn could have material adverse effects on the value of and revenue from our royalty interests. In addition, the current economic downturn may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for additional royalty acquisitions. The value of and revenue from our royalty interests may be materially adversely affected if commodity prices for the various metals on which we have royalties or which are the primary production at mines on which we have royalties decline significantly, as occurred with respect to copper during the second half of calendar 2008. For example, the decline in prices for copper negatively impacted our revenue for the three-month period ended December 31, 2008 by approximately $3.3 million, in comparison to our total revenue for such period of approximately $14.6 million. In addition, our royalty interests and revenues may be materially adversely affected if operators of the properties on which we have royalties do not have, in light of prevailing economic conditions, the financial strength or sufficient credit or other financing capability to cover the costs of operating or developing a mine, causing an operator to curtail, delay or close operations at a mine site. Further disruption and volatility of financial markets could also 12 Table of Contents limit operators’ access to the financing needed for operations. For example, High River, the operator of the Taparko mine, is in breach of its funding agreement with Royal Gold, and recently announced that its ability to continue as a going concern depends on, among other things, its ongoing discussions with its lenders and obtaining additional financing. For these or other reasons, it is possible the operators could delay or cease making royalty payments to us. If any of the operators of the properties on which we have royalties suffer these material adverse effects, enter into bankruptcy or liquidation, or undergo a change of control, then our royalty interests and the value of and revenue from our royalty interests may be materially adversely affected. In addition, a continued economic downturn or credit crisis could adversely affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing for additional royalty acquisitions. We may enter into acquisitions or other material royalty transactions at any time. We are engaged in a continual review of opportunities to acquire existing royalties, to create new royalties through the financing of mining projects or to acquire companies that hold royalty assets. We currently, and generally at any time, have acquisition opportunities in various stages of active review, including, for example, our engagement of consultants and advisors to analyze particular opportunities, analysis of technical, financial and other confidential information, submission of indications of interest, obtaining debt commitments for acquisition financing, participation in preliminary discussions, and involvement as a bidder in competitive auctions. Any such acquisition could be material to us and could significantly increase the size and scope of our business. In such event, we could issue substantial amounts of common stock or incur substantial additional indebtedness to fund the acquisition. Issuances of common stock would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could reduce our earnings per share. In addition, we may consider opportunities to restructure our royalties where we believe such restructuring would provide a long-term benefit to the Company, though such restructuring may reduce near-term revenues. For example, we restructured our royalties at Cortez in connection with the Barrick royalty portfolio acquisition, which reduced our royalty revenue from Cortez during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 by approximately $1.1 million. We could enter into one or more acquisition or restructuring transactions at any time. We may incur substantial indebtedness that could have adverse effects on our business. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future in connection with financing acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. If we were to incur substantial additional indebtedness, it may become difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations and proceeds of any equity issuances to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund acquisitions and dividends and other general corporate purposes, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt or have other adverse effects on us. We may be unable to successfully acquire additional royalty interests. Our future success depends upon our ability to acquire royalty interests at appropriate valuations, including through corporate acquisitions, to replace depleting reserves and to diversify our royalty portfolio. We anticipate that most of our revenues will be derived from royalty interests that we acquire or finance, rather than through exploration and development of properties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and complete the acquisition of such royalty interests, or businesses that own desired royalty interests, at reasonable prices or on favorable terms. In addition, we face competition in the acquisition of royalty interests. If we are unable to successfully acquire additional royalties, the reserves subject to our royalties will decline as the producing properties on which we have royalties are mined. We may also experience negative reactions from the financial markets or operators of properties on which we seek royalties if we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions of royalty interests or 13 Table of Contents businesses that own desired royalty interests. Each of these factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock or our financial condition or results of operations. Acquired royalty interests, particularly on development stage properties, are subject to the risk that they may not produce anticipated royalty revenues. The royalty interests we acquire may not produce the anticipated royalty revenues. Royalty interests acquired on development stage properties are particularly sensitive to this risk. The success of our royalty acquisitions is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, timing and amount of royalty payments, particularly with respect to acquisitions of royalties on development stage properties. If the operator does not bring the property into production and operate in accordance with feasibility studies or other plans, then acquired royalty interests may not yield sufficient royalty revenues to be profitable. Furthermore, operators of development stage properties must obtain all necessary environmental permits and access to water, power and other raw materials needed for operations in order to begin production, and there can be no assurance operators will be able to do so. The Taparko project in Burkina Faso, which began production, the Peñasquito and Dolores mines in Mexico, both ramping up production, Pascua-Lama in Chile, and the Canadian Malartic and Holloway-Holt mining projects in Canada, are among our principal development stage royalty acquisitions to date. In addition, the Andacollo Production Interest that we expect to acquire from CDA is in the development stage and will not produce royalty revenue unless CDA is able to complete permitting and construction and successfully produce copper, as well as gold by-product, from the sulfide portions of the deposit and to operate the project at full capacity. See “Recent Developments — Proposed Acquisition of Andacollo Production Interest” within Item 7, MD&A, of this report. The failure of any of these projects to produce anticipated royalty revenues may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Estimates of reserves and mineralization by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to significant revision. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating proven and probable reserves and mineralization, including many factors beyond our control and the control of the operators of mineral properties on which we have a royalty interest. Reserve estimates on our royalty interests are prepared by the operators of the mining properties. We do not participate in the preparation or verification of such reports and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information. The estimation of reserves and of other mineralized material is a subjective process, and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate, may cause a revision of such estimates. The volume and grade of reserves recovered and rates of production may be less than anticipated. Assumptions about gold and other precious metal prices are subject to great uncertainty, and such prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market price of gold or other precious metals also may render reserves or mineralized material containing relatively lower grades of ore uneconomical to exploit. Changes in operating and capital costs and other factors including short-term operating factors, such as the need for sequential development of ore bodies and the processing of new or different ore grades, may materially and adversely affect reserves. Finally, it is important to note that our royalties give us only small percentage interests in the production from any reserve, and those percentage interests vary widely based on the individual royalty documents. Estimates of production by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to change, and actual production may vary materially from such estimates. Production estimates are prepared by the operators of mining properties. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating anticipated production attributable to our royalty interests, including many factors beyond our control and the control of the operators of properties in which we have royalty interests. We do not participate in the preparation or verification of production estimates and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information. The estimation of anticipated production is a 14 Table of Contents subjective process and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data, reliability of production history, variability in grade encountered, mechanical or other problems encountered, engineering and geological interpretation and operator judgment. Rates of production may be less than expected. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production, changes in commodity prices, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate may cause actual production to vary materially from such estimates. If title to properties is not properly maintained by the operators, our royalty revenues could decline. The validity of unpatented mining claims, which constitute a significant portion of the properties on which we hold royalties in the United States, is often uncertain and such validity is always subject to contest. Unpatented mining claims are generally considered subject to greater title risk than patented mining claims, or real property interests that are held by absolute title to the land (fee simple). Because unpatented mining claims are self-initiated and self-maintained, they possess some unique vulnerabilities not associated with other types of property interests. It is impossible to ascertain the validity of unpatented mining claims from public real property records, and therefore it can be difficult or impossible to confirm that all of the requisite steps have been followed for location and maintenance of an unpatented mining claim. If title to unpatented mining claims subject to our royalty interests has not been properly established or is not properly maintained, our royalty revenues could be adversely affected. Royalty interests are subject to contest by operators of mining projects and holders of mining rights. Our business includes the risk that operators of mining projects and holders of mining claims, tenements, concessions, mining licenses or other interests in land and mining rights may contest the existence or geographic extent of our royalty interests. While Royal Gold seeks to confirm the existence, validity and enforceability of the royalties it acquires, there can be no assurance that such disputes will not arise. As a general matter, royalty interests in mining projects or properties are subject to uncertainties and complexities arising from the application of contract and property laws governing private parties and/or local or national governments in the jurisdiction where mining projects are located. Anticipated federal legislation could decrease our royalty revenues. In recent years, the United States Congress has considered a number of proposed major revisions to the General Mining Law of 1872 (the “General Mining Law”), which governs the creation, maintenance and possession of mining claims and related activities on federal public lands in the United States. Three such proposals are currently pending. Bills H.R. 699, S. 796 and H.R. 3201 were introduced in the Congress in January, April and July 2009, respectively. H.R. 699 would, if enacted, impose a royalty payable to the U.S. Government on existing and future production of minerals from unpatented mining claims in the United States, render certain federal lands unavailable for the location of unpatented mining claims, afford greater public involvement and regulatory discretion in the mine permitting process, provide for citizen suits against miners operating on federal lands, and impose new and stringent environmental operating standards and mined land reclamation requirements in addition to those already in effect. If enacted, S. 796 would, among other things, impose a royalty on production of minerals from unpatented mining claims (except that production from permitted operations producing in commercial quantities on the date of enactment would be grandfathered), impose a land use fee on all federal lands included in mining permits, impose an abandoned mine land reclamation fee on all hardrock mining operations, afford greater public involvement and regulatory discretion in the mine permitting process and in determining appropriate financial assurance for completion of reclamation obligations, render certain federal lands unavailable for the location of unpatented mining claims, and impose new mined land reclamation requirements in addition to those already in effect. 15 Table of Contents H.R. 3201 would, if enacted, impose a royalty on production of minerals from unpatented mining claims located after the date of enactment, and impose an abandoned locatable mine land fee on production from unpatented mining claims. If enacted, legislation such as H.R. 699, S. 796 and H.R. 3201 could adversely affect the development of new mines and the expansion of existing mines, as well as increase the cost of all mining operations on federal lands, perhaps materially and adversely affecting mine operators and, therefore, our royalty revenue. The effect of any revision of the General Mining Law on our royalty interests in the United States cannot be determined conclusively until such revision, if any, is enacted and challenges to the legislation, if any, have been finally resolved. In addition, a number of the properties on which we have royalties are located on U.S. federal lands that are subject to federal mining and other public land laws. Changes in such laws or regulations promulgated under such laws could affect mine development and expansion and significantly increase regulatory obligations and compliance costs with respect to mine development and mine operations, which could adversely affect our royalty revenue from such properties. By way of example, if a royalty, assessment, production tax, or other levy imposed on and measured by production is charged to the operator at Cortez, which is largely located on U.S. federal lands, the amount of that charge would be deducted from gross proceeds for calculation of our GSR1, GSR2 and GSR3 royalties, which would reduce our royalty revenues from these royalty interests. Foreign operations and operation by foreign operators are subject to many risks. We derived approximately 44% of our revenues from foreign sources during fiscal 2009, compared to 21% in fiscal 2008. We currently have interests in mines and projects outside of the United States in Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Finland, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, the Republic of Guinea and Russia. We also evaluate precious metal royalty acquisitions or development opportunities in other parts of the world, including Central America, Europe, Republics of the former Soviet Union, Asia, Africa and South America. Our foreign activities are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries. These risks include, depending on the country, such things as volatile exchange controls and currency fluctuations, inflation, limitations on repatriation of earnings, foreign taxation, foreign real estate, contract and environmental laws and enforcement, expropriation or nationalization of property, labor practices and disputes and uncertain political and economic environments. There are also risks of war and civil disturbances, as well as other risks that could cause exploration or development difficulties or stoppages of operations, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation or loss of contract or real property rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation. Exploration licenses granted by some foreign countries do not include the right to mine, and in some jurisdictions the right to convert an exploration license into mining rights may not be automatic. Each country has discretion in determining whether to grant a license to mine. If an operator cannot secure a mining license following exploration of a property, or were to lose such a license, then the value of our royalty interest would be negatively affected or its validity undermined. Foreign operations also could be adversely impacted by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation. Furthermore, many of our operators are organized outside of the United States. Our royalty interests may be subject to the application of foreign laws to our operators, and their stockholders, including laws relating to corporate transactions, creditors’ rights, bankruptcy and liquidation. The mining industry is subject to significant environmental risks. Mining is subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and the disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral exploration and production. Laws and regulations in the United States and abroad intended to ensure the protection of the environment are constantly changing and generally are becoming more restrictive and costly. Insurance against environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) is not generally available to companies 16 Table of Contents within the mining industry, such as the operators of the mines in which we hold a royalty interest, at a reasonable price. Furthermore, mining may be subject to significant environmental and other permitting requirements regarding the use of raw materials, particularly water, needed for operations. If an operator is forced to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations or becomes subject to environmental restrictions that limit its ability to continue or expand operations, or if an operator were to lose its right to use or access water or other raw materials necessary to operate a mine, our royalty revenues could be reduced, delayed, or eliminated. These risks are most salient with regard to our development stage royalty properties where permitting may not be complete, but can also lead to significant cost burdens, interruptions or stoppage of operations at operating mines. Further, to the extent that we become subject to environmental liabilities for the time period during which we were operating properties, the satisfaction of any liabilities would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer and other key employees and on the participation of our Chairman. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key executive management personnel. Currently, Tony Jensen is serving as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Jensen’s extensive commercial experience, mine operations background and industry contacts give us an important competitive advantage. Furthermore, our Chairman, Stanley Dempsey, who served as our Executive Chairman until his retirement in January 2009, remains closely involved with us. Mr. Dempsey’s knowledge of the royalty business and long-standing relationship with the mining industry are important to our success. The loss of the services of Mr. Jensen or other key employees could jeopardize our ability to maintain our competitive position in the industry. We currently do not have key person life insurance for any of our officers or directors. Additional risks that Royal Gold may face as a result of the Teck Transaction are set forth below. The closing of the Teck Transaction is subject to closing conditions, and there can be no assurance the closing conditions will be met. There is no assurance that the Teck Transaction will be completed. The closing of the Teck Transaction is subject to satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including the condition that the operator, CDA, enter into certain concentrate marketing of its production from the Andacollo project and a condition in both Royal Gold’s and CDA’s favor that CDA’s material governmental approvals are not withdrawn or challenged (or such action threatened). CDA will be precluded from exercising the condition regarding governmental approvals if Royal Gold waives the condition and waives its rights to indemnification from CDA with respect to such governmental approvals. Teck/CDA has recently announced that they have encountered challenges to the previously granted permits for the process water supply, which may result in a delay in the start-up of the sulfide milling operations, and to accommodate the potential delay, Royal Gold has agreed to extend the outside closing date of the Teck Transaction. As such, either party may terminate the definitive agreement if closing conditions are not satisfied or waived by January 29, 2010. Even if the Teck Transaction is completed, the Andacollo Production Interest may not produce the anticipated royalty revenue. Even if the Teck Transaction is completed, there can be no assurance that the production interest we acquire on the Andacollo project will produce the anticipated royalty revenue. The success of the Andacollo project depends upon, among other factors, the ability of the operator to complete the construction of the mine and mill facilities for the sulfide portion of the deposit at the project, the ability of the operator to bring the project into production, the price of copper, the availability of resources necessary to construct and operate the project, including adequate water and power supplies and rights of way, and receipt and maintenance of necessary environmental and other permits to operate the project. While we understand that CDA holds the required air, water and other environmental permits, CDA has announced that challenges to previously granted permits for the water supply arrangements may result in delays to project start-up. There can be no assurance that developments in the political, regulatory or social environment will not require CDA to take further action, and incur additional costs, to maintain its permits or obtain other permits in order to complete development or to operate the project. The failure to 17 Table of Contents maintain or obtain such permits could materially and adversely affect the anticipated benefits of the Teck Transaction. The Andacollo project is a copper mine with gold produced as a by-product. Our production interest, once acquired, will cover only the gold produced from the sulfide portion of the Andacollo project. Consequently, if the price of copper drops, the operator may curtail or delay construction of the sulfide portion or may close operations at the mine site. If the Teck Transaction is completed, the failure of the Andacollo project to produce anticipated royalty revenues may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the other benefits we expect to achieve from the Teck Transaction. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may continue to be volatile and could decline. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may decline in the future. The high and low sale prices of our common stock were $37.50 and $23.25 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, $35.42 and $23.85 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 and $49.81 and $22.75 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The fluctuation of the market price of our common stock has been affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • market prices of gold and other metals; • interest rates; • expectations regarding inflation; • ability of operators to produce precious metals and develop new reserves; • currency values; • credit market conditions; • general stock market conditions; and • global and regional political and economic conditions. Additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could reduce our earnings per share. We may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. Any such acquisition could be material to us and could significantly increase the size and scope of our business. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders could be diluted and our earnings per share would be reduced. If a large number of shares of our common stock is sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future issuances by us of our common stock or of other equity will have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the shares of common stock that we issue in connection with an acquisition may not be subject to resale restrictions. We may issue substantial additional shares of common stock or other securities in connection with other acquisition transactions. The market price of our common stock could decline if certain large holders of our common stock, or recipients of our common stock in connection with an acquisition, sell all or a significant portion of their shares of common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales could also impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock in the capital markets. 18 Table of Contents We may change our practice of paying dividends. We have paid a cash dividend on our common stock for each fiscal year beginning in fiscal year 2000. Our board of directors has discretion in determining whether to declare a dividend based on a number of factors, including prevailing gold prices, economic market conditions and funding requirements for future opportunities or operations. If our board of directors declines to declare dividends in the future or reduces the current dividend level, then our stock price could fall, and the success of an investment in our common stock would depend solely upon any future stock price appreciation. We have increased our dividends in prior years. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to do so. For example, if we were to materially increase our borrowings to conduct a material acquisition, our board of directors could elect to modify our practice of paying dividends and potentially reduce or eliminate dividends on common stock. Certain anti-takeover provisions could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for third parties to acquire control of us or to remove our management. Some of these provisions: • permit our board of directors to issue preferred stock that has rights senior to the common stock without stockholder approval; and • provide for three classes of directors serving staggered, three-year terms. We are also subject to the business combination provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder’s rights plan that imposes significant penalties upon a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of the board of directors. Any of these measures could prevent a third party from pursuing an acquisition of Royal Gold, even if stockholders believe the acquisition is in their best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 