ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The market or trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks. In addition, please see our note about forward-looking statements included in Part II, Item 7, MD&A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Business We own passive interests in mining properties, and it is difficult or impossible for us to ensure properties are operated in our best interest. All of our current revenue is derived from royalties on properties operated by third parties. The holder of a royalty interest typically has no authority regarding the development or operation of a mineral property. Therefore, we are not in control of decisions regarding development or operation of any of the properties on which we hold a royalty interest, and we have limited or no legal rights to influence those decisions. Our strategy of having others operate properties on which we retain a royalty interest puts us generally at risk to the decisions of others regarding all operating matters, including permitting, feasibility analysis, mine design and operation, processing, plant and equipment matters and temporary or permanent suspension of operations, among others. These decisions are likely to be motivated by the best interests of the operator rather than to maximize royalty payments to us. Although we attempt to secure contractual rights, such as audit or access rights when we create new royalties, that will permit us to protect our interests to a degree, there can be no assurance that such rights will always be available or sufficient, or that our efforts will be successful in achieving timely or favorable results or in affecting the operation of the properties in which we have royalty interests in ways that would be beneficial to our stockholders. Volatility in gold, silver, copper, nickel and other metal prices may have an adverse impact on the value of our royalty interests and may reduce our royalty revenues. Certain of our royalty contracts have features that may amplify the negative effects of a drop in metals prices. The profitability of our royalty interests is directly related to the market price of gold, silver, copper, nickel and other metals. Market prices may fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the control of Royal Gold or any mining company, including metal supply, industrial and jewelry fabrication and investment demand, expectations with respect to the rate of inflation, the relative strength of the dollar and other currencies, interest rates, gold purchases, sales and loans by central banks, forward sales by metal producers, global or regional political, economic or banking conditions, and a number of other factors. If gold, silver, copper, nickel and certain other metal prices drop dramatically, we might not be able to recover our initial investment in royalty interests or properties. Moreover, the selection of a property for exploration or development, the determination to construct a mine and place it into production, and the dedication of funds necessary to achieve such purposes are decisions that must be made long before the first revenues from production will be received. Price fluctuations between the time that decisions about exploration, development and construction are made and the commencement of production can have a material adverse effect on the economics of a mine and can eliminate or have a material adverse impact on the value of royalty interests. Furthermore, if the market price of gold, silver, copper, nickel or certain other metals declines, then our royalty revenues would also fall. Our sliding-scale royalties, such as Cortez, Holt, Mulatos, Wolverine and other properties, amplify this effect. When metal prices fall below certain thresholds in a 8 Table of Contents sliding-scale royalty, a lower royalty rate is applied to production. In addition, certain of our royalty agreements, such as those relating to our interests in the Andacollo, Robinson, Peñasquito and Voisey's Bay properties, are based on the operator's concentrate sales to smelters, which include price adjustments between the operator and the smelter based on metals prices at a later date, typically three to five months after shipment to the smelter. In such cases, our royalty payments from the operator include a component of these later price adjustments, which can result in decreased royalty revenue in later periods if metals prices have fallen. Volatility in gold, silver, copper and nickel prices is demonstrated by the annual high and low prices for those metals from selected years during the past decade. •High and low gold prices per ounce, based on the London Bullion Market Association P.M. fix, have ranged from $293 to $256 in 2001, from $537 to $411 in 2005, from $1,212 to $810 in 2009, from $1,895 to $1,319 in 2011, and from $1,781 to $1,540 year to date. •High and low silver prices per ounce, based on the London Bullion Market Association fix, have ranged from $4.82 to $4.07 in 2001, from $9.23 to $6.39 in 2005, from $19.18 to $10.51 in 2009, from $48.70 to $26.68 in 2011, and from $37.23 to $26.67 year to date. •High and low copper prices per pound, based on the London Metal Exchange cash settlement price for Grade A copper, have ranged from $0.81 to $0.62 in 2001, from $2.08 to $1.44 in 2005, from $3.33 to $1.38 in 2009, from $4.60 to $3.08 in 2011, and from $3.93 to $3.29 year to date. •High and low nickel prices per pound, based on the London Metal Exchange cash settlement price for nickel, have ranged from $3.40 to $1.97 in 2001, from $8.12 to $5.22 in 2005, from $9.31 to $4.25 in 2009, from $13.17 to $7.68 in 2011, and from $9.90 to $7.08 year to date. Our revenues are subject to operational and other risks faced by operators of our mining properties. Although we are not required to pay capital costs (except for transactions where we finance mine development) or operating costs, our financial results are indirectly subject to hazards and risks normally associated with developing and operating mining properties where we hold royalty interests. Some of these risks include: •insufficient ore reserves; •increases in production costs incurred by operators or third parties that may impact the amount of reserves available to be mined, cause an operator to delay or curtail mining operations or render mining of ore uneconomical and cause an operator to close operations; •declines in the price of gold, silver, copper, nickel and other metals; •mine operating and ore processing facility problems; •economic downturns and operators' insufficient financing; •insolvency or bankruptcy of the operator; •significant environmental and other regulatory permitting requirements and restrictions and any changes in those regulations; •challenges by non-mining interests to existing permits and mining rights, and to applications for permits and mining rights; •community or civil unrest; •labor shortages, increased labor costs, and labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages at mines; 9 Table of Contents •geological problems, unanticipated metallurgical characteristics and unanticipated ground or water conditions; •pit wall or tailings dam failures or any underground stability issues; •fires, explosions and other industrial accidents; •environmental hazards and natural catastrophes such as floods, earthquakes or inclement or hazardous weather conditions; •injury to persons, property or the environment; •the ability of the operators to maintain or increase production or to replace reserves as properties are mined; and •uncertain domestic and foreign political and economic environments. The occurrence of any of the above mentioned risks or hazards could result in an interruption, suspension or termination of operation of any of the properties in which we hold a royalty interest and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We depend on our operators for the calculation of royalty payments. We may not be able to detect errors and later payment calculations may call for retroactive adjustments. Our royalty payments are calculated by the operators of the properties on which we have royalties based on their reported production. Each operator's calculation of our royalty payments is subject to and dependent upon the adequacy and accuracy of its production and accounting functions, and, given the complex nature of mining and ownership of mining interests, errors may occur from time to time in the allocation of production and the various other calculations made by an operator. Any of these errors may render calculations of our royalty payments inaccurate. Certain royalty agreements require the operators to provide us with production and operating information that may, depending on the completeness and accuracy of such information, enable us to detect errors in the calculation of royalty payments that we receive. We do not, however, have the contractual right to receive production information for all of our royalty interests. As a result, our ability to detect royalty payment errors through our royalty monitoring program and its associated internal controls and procedures is limited, and the possibility exists that we will need to make retroactive royalty revenue adjustments. Some of our royalty contracts provide us the right to audit the operational calculations and production data for the associated royalty payments; however, such audits may occur many months following our recognition of the royalty revenue and may require us to adjust our royalty revenue in later periods, which could require us to restate our financial statements. Development and operation of mines is very capital intensive and any inability of the operators of our royalty properties to meet liquidity needs, obtain financing or operate profitably could have material adverse effects on the value of and revenue from our royalty interests. The development and operation of mines is very capital intensive, and if operators of our royalty properties do not have the financial strength or sufficient credit or other financing capability to cover the costs of developing or operating a mine, the operator may curtail, delay or cease development or operations at a mine site. Operators' ability to raise and service sufficient capital may be affected by, among other things, macroeconomic conditions, future commodity prices of metals to be mined, or a further downturn in the U.S. or global financial markets as has been experienced in recent years. If any of the operators of the properties on which we have royalties suffer these material adverse effects, then our royalty interests and the value of and revenue from our royalty interests may be materially adversely affected. In addition, a continued economic downturn or credit crisis could adversely affect 10 Table of Contents the ability of operators to obtain debt or equity financing for the exploration, development and operation of their properties. Acquired royalty interests, particularly on development stage properties, are subject to the risk that they may not produce anticipated royalty revenues. The royalty interests we acquire may not produce anticipated royalty revenues. The success of our royalty acquisitions is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, timing and amount of royalty payments, particularly with respect to acquisitions of royalties on development stage properties. If an operator does not bring a property into production and operate in accordance with feasibility studies, technical or reserve reports or other plans due to lack of capital, inexperience, unexpected problems, or otherwise, then the acquired royalty interest may not yield sufficient royalty revenues to be profitable. Furthermore, operators of development stage properties must obtain all necessary environmental permits and access to water, power and other raw materials needed to begin production, and there can be no assurance operators will be able to do so. The Pascua-Lama mining project in Chile and Argentina and the Mt. Milligan mining project in Canada are among our cornerstone development stage royalty acquisitions. The failure of any of our cornerstone or principal royalty properties to produce anticipated royalty revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and the other benefits we expect to achieve from the acquisition of royalty interests. Further, as mines on which we have royalties or other interests mature, we can expect overall declines in production over the years unless operators are able to replace reserves that are mined through mine expansion or successful new exploration. There can be no assurance that the operators of our royalty properties will be able to maintain or increase production or replace reserves as they are mined. Certain of our royalty interests are subject to payment or production caps or rights in favor of the operator or third parties that could reduce the revenues generated from the royalty assets. Some of our principal royalty interests are subject to limitations, such that the royalty will extinguish after threshold production is achieved or royalty payments at stated thresholds are made. For example, a portion of our royalty at Pascua-Lama and our royalty at Mulatos are subject to production caps. Furthermore, certain of our other royalty agreements contain rights that favor the operator or third parties. For example, Osisko, the operator of Canadian Malartic, one of our principal producing properties, exercised its buy-down right that reduced our royalty interest from a 3% NSR royalty to a 1.5% NSR royalty in fiscal year 2011. Also, certain individuals from whom we purchased portions of our royalty interest at Pascua-Lama, another of our cornerstone development properties, are entitled to one-time payments if the price of gold exceeds certain thresholds. If any of these thresholds are met or similar rights are exercised or we fail to make the required payment, our future royalty revenue could be reduced. We may enter into acquisitions or other material royalty transactions at any time. We are engaged in a continual review of opportunities to acquire existing royalties, to create new royalty interests through the financing of mining projects or to acquire companies that hold royalties. We currently, and generally at any time, have acquisition opportunities in various stages of active review, including, for example, our engagement of consultants and advisors to analyze particular opportunities, technical, financial and other confidential information, submission of indications of interest and participation in discussions or negotiations for acquisitions. We also often consider obtaining or providing debt commitments for acquisition financing. Any such acquisition could be material to us. We could issue common stock or incur additional indebtedness to fund our acquisitions. Issuances of common stock may dilute existing stockholders and reduce some or all of our financial measures on a per share basis. In addition, any such acquisition or other royalty transaction may have 11 Table of Contents other transaction specific risks associated with it, including risks related to the completion of the transaction, the project, its operators, or the jurisdictions in which the project is located. In addition, we may consider opportunities to restructure our royalties where we believe such restructuring would provide a long-term benefit to the Company, though such restructuring may reduce near-term revenues or result in the incurrence of transaction related costs. We could enter into one or more acquisition or restructuring transactions at any time. We may be unable to successfully acquire additional royalty interests at appropriate valuations. Our future success largely depends upon our ability to acquire royalty interests at appropriate valuations, including through royalties and corporate acquisitions, gold and silver streaming and other financing transactions. Most of our revenues are derived from royalty interests that we acquire or finance, rather than through exploration of properties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and complete the acquisition of such royalty interests or businesses that own desired interests, at reasonable prices or on favorable terms, or, if necessary, that we will have, or be able to obtain, sufficient financing on reasonable terms to complete such acquisitions. A continued economic downturn or credit crisis could adversely affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing for additional royalty acquisitions. In addition, we face competition in the acquisition of royalty interests. We have competitors that are engaged in the acquisition of royalty interests, including companies with greater financial resources, and we may not be able to compete successfully against these companies in acquiring new royalty interests. If we are unable to successfully acquire additional royalties, the reserves subject to our royalties will decline as the producing properties on which we have such interests are mined or payment or production caps on certain of our royalties are met. We also may experience negative reactions from the financial markets or operators of properties on which we seek royalties if we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions of royalty interests or businesses that own desired royalty interests. Each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Estimates of reserves and mineralization by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to significant revision. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating proven and probable reserves and mineralization, including many factors beyond our control and the control of the operators of properties on which we have royalty interests. Reserve estimates for our royalty interests are prepared by the operators of the mining properties. We do not participate in the preparation or verification of such reports and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information. The estimation of reserves and of other mineralized material is a subjective process, and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate, may cause a revision of such estimates. The volume and grade of reserves recovered and rates of production may be less than anticipated. Assumptions about gold and other precious metal prices are subject to great uncertainty, and such prices have fluctuated widely in the past. Declines in the market price of gold, silver, copper, nickel or other metals also may render reserves or mineralized material containing relatively lower ore grades uneconomical to exploit. Changes in operating costs and other factors including short-term operating factors, the processing of new or different ore grades, geotechnical characteristics and metallurgical recovery, may materially and adversely affect reserves. Finally, it is important to note that our royalties generally give us interests in only a small portion of the production from the operators' aggregate reserves, and the size of those interests varies widely based on the individual royalty documents. 12 Table of Contents Estimates of production by the operators of mines in which we have royalty interests are subject to change, and actual production may vary materially from such estimates. Production estimates are prepared by the operators of mining properties. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating anticipated production attributable to our royalty interests, including many factors beyond our control and the control of the operators of the properties in which we have royalty interests. We do not participate in the preparation or verification of production estimates and have not independently assessed or verified the accuracy of such information. The estimation of anticipated production is a subjective process and the accuracy of any such estimates is a function of the quality of available data, reliability of production history, variability in grade encountered, mechanical or other problems encountered, engineering and geological interpretation and operator judgment. Rates of production may be less than expected. Results of drilling, metallurgical testing and production, changes in commodity prices, and the evaluation of mine plans subsequent to the date of any estimate may cause actual production to vary materially from such estimates. If title to properties is not properly maintained by the operators, or is successfully challenged by third parties, our royalty interests could become invalid. Our business includes the risk that operators of mining projects and holders of mining claims, tenements, concessions, mining licenses or other interests in land and mining rights may lose their exploration or mining rights, or have their rights to mining properties contested by private parties or the government. Internationally, mining tenures are subject to loss for many reasons, including expiration, failure of the holder to meet specific legal qualifications, failure to pay maintenance fees, reduction in geographic extent upon passage of time or upon conversion from an exploration tenure to a mining tenure, failure of title and similar risks. Unpatented mining claims, for example, which constitute a significant portion of the properties on which we hold royalties in the United States, and which are generally considered subject to greater title risk than real property interests held by absolute title, are often uncertain and subject to contest by third parties and the government. If title to unpatented mining claims or other mining tenures subject to our royalty interests has not been properly established or is not properly maintained, or is successfully contested, our royalty interests could be adversely affected. Royalty interests are subject to title and other defects and contest by operators of mining projects and holders of mining rights, and these risks may be hard to identify in acquisition transactions. While we seek to confirm the existence, validity, enforceability and geographic extent of the royalties we acquire, there can be no assurance that disputes over these and other matters will not arise. Confirming these matters, as well as the title to mining property on which we hold or seek to acquire a royalty, is a complex matter, and is subject to the application of the laws of each jurisdiction to the particular circumstances of each parcel of mining property. Similarly, our royalty interests generally are subject to uncertainties and complexities arising from the application of contract and property laws governing private parties and/or local or national governments in the jurisdiction where mining projects are located. Furthermore, royalties in many jurisdictions are contractual in nature, rather than interests in land, and therefore may be subject to change of control, bankruptcy or insolvency of operators, nonperformance and to challenges of various kinds brought by operators or third parties. We do not usually have the protection of security interests over property that we could liquidate to recover all or part of our royalty investment. Even if we retain our royalty interests in a mining project after any change of control, bankruptcy or insolvency of the operator, the project may end up under the control of a new operator, who may or may not operate the project in a similar manner to the current operator, which may positively or negatively impact us. In addition, operators and other parties to our royalty agreements may not abide by their contractual obligations and we could be forced to take legal action to enforce our contractual rights. Disputes also could arise 13 Table of Contents challenging, among other things, the existence or geographic extent of the royalty, third party claims to the same royalty interest or to the property on which we have a royalty, various rights of the operator or third parties in or to the royalty, methods for calculating the royalty, production and other thresholds and caps applicable to royalty payments, the obligation of an operator to make royalty payments, and various defects or ambiguities in the royalty agreement itself. Unknown defects in, non-performance of, or disputes relating to, the royalties we acquire may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Operations in foreign jurisdictions are subject to many risks, which could decrease our royalty revenues. We derived approximately 82% of our revenues from foreign sources during fiscal 2012, compared to approximately 76% in fiscal year 2011 and 60% in fiscal year 2010. Our principal producing royalties on properties outside of the United States are located in Canada, Chile, Mexico and Spain. We currently have interests in mines and projects in other countries, including Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Finland, Ghana, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Peru, Russia and Tunisia. In addition, future acquisitions may expose us to new jurisdictions. Our foreign activities are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries. These risks include, depending on the country, such things as: •volatile exchange and currency controls and fluctuations; •expropriation or nationalization of property; •limitations on foreign exchange and repatriation of earnings; •increased foreign taxation or imposition of new or increased mining royalties; •enforcement of unfamiliar or uncertain foreign real estate, mineral tenure, contract, water use, mine safety and environmental laws and policies; •restrictions on mineral production and price controls; •high rates of inflation; •labor practices and disputes; •import and export regulations, including restrictions on the export of gold, silver, copper, nickel or other metals; •changes in legislation, including changes related to taxation, royalties, imports, exports, duties, currency, foreign ownership, foreign trade and foreign investment; •renegotiation, nullification or forced modification of existing contracts, licenses, permits, approvals, concessions or the like; •war, crime, terrorism, sabotage, civil unrest and uncertain political and economic environments; •corruption; •exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions to which we, but not necessarily our competitors, may be subject; •suspension of the enforcement of creditors' rights and shareholders' rights; and •risk of loss due to disease and other potential endemic health issues. 14 Table of Contents For example, in recent years Argentina, where a portion of the Pascua-Lama project is located, has experienced significant economic turmoil and its government has taken several actions that have troubled foreign investors, including the nationalization of YPF S.A., the largest oil and gas company in Argentina, and the enactment of a federal glacier protection law that restricts mining activities in areas on or near the nation's glaciers (as discussed below in "The mining industry is subject to significant environmental risks"). Our royalty interests in the Pascua-Lama project, which straddles the border between Chile and Argentina, are on the Chilean side of the project. These actions, or similar future actions, could have a material adverse effect on the feasibility of new mine development and the profitability of existing mining operations in Argentina. As another example, in March 2012, the Australian federal government adopted new tax legislation that imposes a 30% tax on iron ore and coal mine profits. Similar legislation could be adopted in other foreign jurisdictions that could impose new or larger tax obligations or royalties on operators. Such legislation could have a material adverse effect on the feasibility of new mine development and the profitability of existing mining operations. In addition, many of our operators are organized outside of the United States. Our royalty interests may be subject to the application of foreign laws to our operators, and their stockholders, including laws relating to foreign ownership structures, corporate transactions, creditors' rights, bankruptcy and liquidation. Foreign operations also could be adversely impacted by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation. These risks may limit or disrupt operating mines or projects on which we hold royalties, restrict the movement of funds, or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Certain of these risks may increase in an environment of relatively high metal prices. Changes in U.S. federal and state legislation, including changes in mining taxes and royalties payable to governments, could decrease our royalty revenues. A number of our royalty properties are located on U.S. federal lands that are subject to federal mining and other public land laws. Changes in federal or state laws or the regulations promulgated under them could affect mine development and expansion, significantly increase regulatory obligations and compliance costs with respect to mine development and mine operations, increase the cost of holding mining claims or impose additional taxes on mining operations, all of which could adversely affect our royalty revenue from such properties. In recent years, the United States Congress has considered a number of proposed major revisions to the General Mining Law of 1872 (the "General Mining Law"), which governs the creation, maintenance and possession of mining claims and related activities on federal public lands in the United States. Congress also has recently considered bills, which if enacted, would impose royalties payable to the government on hardrock production, increase land holding fees, impose federal reclamation fees, impose additional environmental operating standards and afford greater public involvement and regulatory discretion in the mine permitting process. Such legislation, if enacted, could adversely affect the development of new mines and the expansion of existing mines, as well as increase the cost of all mining operations on federal lands, and could materially and adversely affect mine operators and our royalty revenue from mines located on federal lands in the United States. The mining industry is subject to significant environmental risks. Mining is subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and the disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral exploration and production. Laws and regulations in the United States and abroad intended to ensure the protection of the environment are 15 Table of Contents constantly changing and evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Furthermore, mining may be subject to significant environmental and other permitting requirements regarding the use of raw materials needed for operations, particularly water and power. Compliance with such laws and regulations can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, which may be material. If an operator is forced to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations or becomes subject to environmental restrictions that limit its ability to continue or expand operations, or if an operator were to lose its right to use or access water or other raw materials necessary to operate a mine, our royalty revenues could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. These risks are most salient with regard to our development stage royalty properties where permitting may not be complete and/or where new legislation and regulation can lead to delays, interruptions and significant unexpected cost burdens for mine operators. For example, Argentina recently passed a federal glacier protection law that restricts mining activities in areas on or near the nation's glaciers. We have royalty interests on the Chilean side of the Pascua-Lama project, which straddles the border between Chile and Argentina, and the glacier law could affect aspects of the design, development and operation of the Pascua-Lama project. In July 2012, the National Supreme Court of Justice of Argentina overturned preliminary injunctions suspending the application of the glacier law in the San Juan Province, where a portion of the Pascua-Lama project is located, but the Supreme Court must still rule on the constitutionality of the glacier law. Further, to the extent that we become subject to environmental liabilities for the time period during which we were operating properties, the satisfaction of any liabilities would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs to the operators of the properties on which we have royalties. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which ends at the end of 2012, established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for countries that have ratified the Protocol, which include Ghana, Australia and Peru. Canada ratified the Protocol but renounced its ratification in December 2011. Furthermore, the U.S. Congress and several states have initiated legislation regarding climate change that will affect energy prices and demand for carbon intensive products. Additionally, the Australian government recently implemented a national emissions trading scheme and renewable energy targets. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on the operators of our royalty properties, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. If an operator of a property on which we have royalty interests is forced to incur significant costs to comply with climate change regulation or becomes subject to environmental restrictions that limit its ability to continue or expand operations, our royalty revenues from that property could be reduced, delayed or eliminated. We depend on the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer and other key employees and on the participation of our Chairman. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key executive management personnel. Tony Jensen has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since July 2006. Mr. Jensen's extensive commercial experience, mine operations background and industry contacts give us an important competitive advantage. Furthermore, our Chairman, Stanley Dempsey, who served as our Executive Chairman until his retirement as an officer of the Company in January 2009, has extensive knowledge of the royalty business and maintains long-standing relationships with the mining industry, both of which are important to our success. The loss of the services of Mr. Jensen, other key 16 Table of Contents members of management or other key employees could jeopardize our ability to maintain our competitive position in the industry. From time to time, we may also need to identify and retain additional skilled management and specialized technical personnel to efficiently operate our business. The number of persons skilled in the acquisition, exploration and development of royalties is limited and competition for such persons is intense. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel is critical to our success and there can be no assurance of such success. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, our ability to execute our business model and growth strategy could be affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We currently do not have key person life insurance for any of our officers or directors. Our disclosure controls and internal control over our financial reporting are subject to inherent limitations. Management has concluded that as of June 30, 2012, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were effective. Such controls and procedures, however, may not be adequate to prevent or identify existing or future internal control weaknesses due to inherent limitations therein, which may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to, our dependence on operators for the calculations of royalty payments as discussed above in "We depend on our operators for the calculation of royalty payments. We may not be able to detect errors and later payment calculations may call for retroactive adjustments". Given our dependence on third party calculations, there is a risk that material misstatements in results of operations and financial condition may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by our internal controls over financial reporting and may require us to restate our financial statements. We have incurred indebtedness in connection our business and could incur additional indebtedness that could limit cash flow available for our operations, limit our ability to borrow additional funds and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As of June 30, 2012, we had $370 million aggregate principal amount of our 2019 Notes outstanding. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in connection with financing acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. As of June 30, 2012, we had $350 million available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. Our indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate enough cash to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund royalty acquisitions, working capital and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •restrict us from exploiting business opportunities; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; •dilute our existing stockholders if we elect to issue common stock instead of paying cash in the event the holders convert the 2019 Notes, or any other convertible securities issued in the future; and 17 Table of Contents •limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes. We may be required to pay a significant amount of money or issue a significant amount of shares of our common stock or both upon the exercise of any put, redemption or call right and conversion of the 2019 Notes, which could dilute existing shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Holders of the 2019 Notes may convert their 2019 Notes at their option prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding March 15, 2019, but only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter commencing after June 30, 2012 (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five consecutive business day period after any five consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of such measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on each such trading day; (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events; or (4) if we call any 2019 Notes for redemption, at any time until the close of business on the business day preceding the redemption date. On or after March 15, 2019 until the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding the June 15, 2019, maturity date, holders may convert their 2019 Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. On or after June 15, 2015, if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending within 10 trading days immediately prior to the date we provide the notice of redemption exceeds 130% of the applicable conversion price of the 2019 Notes on each applicable trading day, subject to certain limited exceptions, we may redeem any or all of the 2019 Notes. The redemption price for the 2019 Notes to be redeemed on any redemption date will equal 100% of the principal amount of the 2019 Notes being redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date, plus $90 per each $1,000 principal amount of 2019 Notes being redeemed. If we call any 2019 Notes for redemption, holders may convert their 2019 Notes at any time until the close of business on the business day preceding the redemption date. Upon conversion of any of the 2019 Notes, whether upon maturity, the exercise of any put, call or redemption right, or otherwise, we will be required to pay or deliver, at our election, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. Any such payment or delivery of cash, shares or a combination of cash and shares upon conversion of the 2019 Notes could dilute existing shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may not be able to satisfy our debt obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flows will be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments and the risk that we will be unable to refinance our indebtedness when it becomes due, or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our indebtedness. As of June 30, 2012, our annual debt service obligation on the 2019 Notes was approximately $10.6 million. In addition, the 2019 Notes include provisions providing for the lump sum payment of significant amounts of principal, whether upon maturity, upon the exercise of any applicable put, redemption or call rights or otherwise and all 18 Table of Contents amounts, if any, due under our revolving credit facility are due at maturity. We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness when due, or that our cash needs will not increase. Our ability to make these payments when due will depend upon several factors, which may not be in our control. These factors include our liquidity or our ability to convert assets owned by us into liquidity on or prior to such put, redemption, call or maturity dates and the amount by which we have been able to reduce indebtedness prior to such date though exchanges, refinancing, extensions, collateralization or other similar transactions (any of which transactions may also have the effect of reducing liquidity or liquid assets). In addition, our revolving credit facility contains, and the agreements that may govern any future indebtedness that we may incur may contain, financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Among other restrictions, our revolving credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to make certain investments, consummate certain mergers, incur certain debt or liens and dispose of assets. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various covenants and requirements of the 2019 Notes, our revolving credit facility or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future, this could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Any default under the 2019 Notes, our revolving credit facility or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2019 Notes, could have a material effect on our reported net loss, net working capital or other financial results. Under the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") Accounting Standards Codification Section 470-20, Debt with Conversion and other Options ("ASC 470-20"), an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the 2019 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the 2019 Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the 2019 Notes. As a result, we are required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the 2019 Notes to their face amount over the term of the 2019 Notes. We report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the 2019 Notes. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the 2019 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the 2019 Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the 2019 Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the 2019 Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may continue to be volatile and could decline. Future fluctuations in our stock price may also impact the trading price of the outstanding 2019 Notes and make them more difficult to resell. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may decline in the future. The high and low sale prices of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market were $55.96 and $37.35 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, $62.33 and $42.15 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 and $83.87 and $57.00 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. The fluctuation of the market price of our common stock has been affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: •market prices of gold, silver, copper, nickel and other metals; •interest rates; •expectations regarding inflation; •ability of operators to produce precious metals and develop new reserves; •currency values; •credit market conditions; •general stock market conditions; and •global and regional political and economic conditions. Because the 2019 Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed market prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of the outstanding 2019 Notes. Holders who receive shares of our common stock upon conversion of the 2019 Notes will also be subject to the risk of volatility and depressed market prices of our common stock. Additional issuances of equity securities by us could dilute our existing stockholders, reduce some or all of our financial measures on a per share basis, reduce the trading price of our common stock and the 2019 Notes or impede our ability to raise future capital. Substantial sales of shares may negatively impact the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the outstanding 2019 Notes. We may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, our existing stockholders could be diluted and some or all of our financial measures on a per share basis could be reduced. In addition, the shares of common stock that we issue in connection with an acquisition may not be subject to resale restrictions. The market price of our common stock and, in turn, the trading price of the 2019 Notes, could decline if our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the conversion of the outstanding 2019 Notes or are perceived by the market as intending to sell these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, the existence of the 2019 Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the 2019 Notes could depress the price of our common stock. These sales also could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the then-prevailing market price of our common stock and the trading price of the outstanding 2019 Notes. Conversion of the 2019 Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders, including holders who had previously converted their 2019 Notes. At our election, we may settle the 2019 Notes tendered for conversion entirely or partly in shares of our common stock. An aggregate of approximately 3.5 million shares of our common stock are issuable upon conversion of the outstanding 2019 Notes at the initial conversion rate of 9.4955 shares 20 Table of Contents of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $105.31 per share of common stock). In addition, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2019 Notes, and therefore the dilution of existing common stockholders, could increase under certain circumstances described in the indenture under which the 2019 Notes are governed. We may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. As a result, the conversion of some or all of the 2019 Notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock and, in turn, the trading price of the 2019 Notes. We may change our practice of paying dividends. We have paid a cash dividend on our common stock for each fiscal year beginning in fiscal year 2000. Our board of directors has discretion in determining whether to declare a dividend based on a number of factors, including prevailing gold prices, economic market conditions, future earnings, cash flows, financial condition, and funding requirements for future opportunities or operations. In addition, there may be corporate law limitations or future contractual restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. If our board of directors declines or is unable to declare dividends in the future or reduces the current dividend level, our stock price could fall, and the success of an investment in our common stock would depend largely upon any future stock price appreciation. We have increased our dividends in prior years. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to do so or that we will pay any dividends at all. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our organizational documents, our rights plan, the 2019 Notes and the indenture governing the 2019 Notes could impede, delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of us. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our organizational documents, our rights plans, the 2019 Notes and the indenture governing the 2019 Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Delaware law prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could similarly delay, defer or discourage a change in control of us or management. These provisions could also discourage a proxy contest and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. Such provisions provide for the following, among other things: (i) the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval, (ii) the ability of our board of directors to establish the rights and preferences of authorized and unissued preferred stock, (iii) a board of directors divided into three classes of directors serving staggered three year terms, (iv) permitting only the chairman of the board of directors, chief executive officer, president or board of directors to call a stockholders' meeting and (v) requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals and related information. Furthermore, we have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the stockholder rights plan could cause significant dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a fundamental change, holders of the 2019 Notes will have the right to require us to purchase their 2019 Notes in cash. If an acquisition event constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their 2019 Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. These provisions could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise 21 Table of Contents discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, which may cause the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the 2019 Notes to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 