ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have sought to identify what we believe to be the most significant risks to our business, but we cannot predict whether or to what extent any of such risks may be realized, nor are there any assurances that the Company has identified all possible risks that might arise. Our revenues are derived from specialty restoration, construction and interior services products and services. There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. Some of these risks are set forth below. Unless otherwise indicated, all numbers (except per share amounts) presented under this Item 1A are stated in thousands. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to evaluate our future business prospects and make decisions based on those estimates of our future performance. We did not begin operations of our current business concept until November 2002. We have a limited operating history in our current combined form, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business on the basis of historical operations. The revenues from two of our operating subsidiaries, Fireline and HSR of Louisiana, which account for a significant portion of our revenue for fiscal year 2006, were the result of acquisitions that we closed in October 2006, July 2006 and September 2005. As a consequence, it is difficult, if not impossible, to forecast our future results based upon our historical data. Reliance on the historical results of our acquisition targets may not be representative of the results we will achieve, particularly in our combined form. Because of the uncertainties related to our lack of historical operations, we may be hindered in our ability to anticipate and timely adapt to increases or decreases in sales, revenues or expenses. If we make poor budgetary decisions as a result of unreliable historical data, we could be less profitable or incur losses, which may result in a decline in our stock price. Our results of operations have not been consistent, and we may not be able to maintain profitability. We incurred a consolidated net loss of ($702) for the year ended December 31, 2003, yet we achieved a consolidated net profit of $2,563 for the year ended December 31, 2004, a net profit of $7,185 for the year ended December 31, 2005 and a net profit of $17,898 for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our management believes that our current business plan will be successful and that we will continue to maintain and grow profitability; however, our business plan is speculative and unproven. Although our revenues grew substantially due to our growth strategy and we achieved a profit in fiscal years 2004, 2005 and 2006, there is no assurance that we will be successful in executing our business plan or, even if we successfully implement our business plan, that we will sustain profitability now or in the future. If we incur significant operating losses, our stock price may decline, perhaps significantly. Our business depends on the demand for restoration, construction and interior services, and if the demand for those services decreases, our revenues could decline. Our business depends upon the demand for the services that we provide, which include restoration, construction and interior services that we provide to residential home owners and commercial properties. Because of our significant emphasis on the construction and reconstruction of residential and commercial properties, we would be adversely affected by any slowdown in the growth of, or reduction in demand for, these services. Demand for our restoration services is event-based and depends upon the frequency and intensity of natural disasters and the type and scope of damage to properties. Additionally, demand for our services depends on numerous other factors, including: the amount and growth of household income; the financial condition of the end user of our services, and whether an insurance policy or reimbursement from the federal or state government is available to pay the cost of our services; changes in mortgage rates and decreases in housing growth in markets where the Company operates; and general economic conditions. If demand for the services that we provide decreases, then we may experience a decline in sales resulting in decreased profits. If demand for our services decreases and our management fails to implement appropriate adjustments, then our profitability could suffer and the price of our common stock could decline. 6 Table of Contents A significant portion of our interior services business segment is dependent upon relationships with two customers. Our interior services business segment currently consists of the manufacture and installation of custom kitchen cabinets and the installation of kitchen countertops. These products and services are offered to residential customers primarily through a furnish and installation contract with Home Depot, and through a relationship with Centex. The Home Depot contract may be terminated by Home Depot at any time upon notice to us. Furthermore, Home Depot is not obligated to use our services under this contract. We have no contract with Centex, and Centex is not obligated to buy our products or use our services. If Home Depot terminates its contract with us, or if Home Depot or Centex choose not to buy our products or use our services, we would experience an immediate detrimental impact on our interior services business segment, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to engage in acquisitions as part of our growth strategy, which will consume resources and may be unsuccessful or unprofitable. We have pursued, and we intend to continue to pursue, a strategy of acquiring businesses that fit within our business model. However, acquisitions are not always successful or profitable. Any future acquisitions could expose us to risks, including risks associated with assimilating new operations and personnel; diversion of resources from our existing businesses; inability to generate revenues sufficient to offset associated acquisition costs; the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Acquisitions may also result in additional expenses from amortizing acquired intangible assets. If we attempt an acquisition and are unsuccessful in its completion, we will likely incur significant expenses without any benefit to our Company. If we are successful in completing an acquisition, the risks and other problems we face may ultimately make the acquisition unprofitable. Failed acquisition transactions and underperforming completed acquisitions would burden us with significant costs without any corresponding benefits to us, which could cause our stock price to decrease, perhaps significantly. We expect that we will need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy, and these funds may not be available when we need them. We believe that we will need to raise additional monies in order to fund our growth strategy and implement our business plan. Specifically, we expect that we will need to raise additional funds in order to pursue rapid expansion, develop new or enhanced services and products, and acquire complementary businesses or assets. Additionally, we may need funds to respond to unanticipated events that require us to make additional investments in our business. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed on favorable terms, or at all. If these funds are not available when we need them, then we may need to change our business strategy and reduce our targeted rate of growth. We must effectively manage the growth of our operations, or our results of operations will suffer. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan requires an effective planning and management process. If funding is available, we intend to increase the scope of our operations and acquire complementary businesses. Implementing our business plan will require significant additional funding and resources. If we are successful in growing our operations, we will need to hire additional employees and make significant capital investments. As we continue to grow our operations, it may place a significant strain on our management and our resources. As a result of our recent growth and any continued growth, we will need to improve our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures, and we will need to expand, train and manage our workforce. Any failure to manage any of the foregoing areas efficiently and effectively could cause our results of operations to suffer. We face competition from numerous sources and competition may increase, leading to a decline in revenues. We compete primarily with well-established companies, many of which we believe have greater resources than Home Solutions. We believe that barriers to entry in our restoration and construction services and interior services business segments are not significant and start-up costs are relatively low, so our competition may increase in the future. New competitors may be able to launch new businesses similar to ours, and current competitors may replicate our business model, at a relatively low cost. If competitors with significantly greater resources than ours decide to replicate our business model, they may be able to quickly gain recognition and acceptance of their business methods and products through marketing and promotion. We may not have the resources to compete effectively with current or future competitors. If we are unable to effectively compete, we will lose sales to our competitors and our revenues will decline. Our failure to comply with federal and state environmental laws and regulations could result in fines or injunctions, which could materially impair the operation of our business. Portions of our business are heavily regulated by federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated under the Environmental Protection Agency. These federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations govern the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials and 7 Table of Contents the remediation of contaminated sites. Our businesses involve working around and with volatile, toxic and hazardous substances and other regulated substances. We may become liable under these federal, state and local laws and regulations for the improper characterization, handling or disposal of hazardous or other regulated substances. We may become subject to claims for personal injury or property damage related to accidents, spills, and exposure to hazardous substances that are related to our business. It is possible that some of our operations could become subject to an injunction which would impede or even prevent us from operating that portion of our business. Any significant environmental claim or injunction could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Additionally, environmental regulations and laws are constantly changing, and changes in those laws and regulations could significantly increase our compliance costs and divert our human and other resources from revenue-generating activities. The failure to obtain and maintain required governmental licenses, permits and approvals could have a substantial adverse effect on our operations. Portions of our operations, particularly our restoration and construction services business segment, are highly regulated and subject to a variety of federal and state laws, including environmental laws which require that we obtain various licenses, permits and approvals. We must obtain and maintain various federal, state and local governmental licenses, permits and approvals in order to provide our services. We may not be successful in obtaining or maintaining any necessary license, permit or approval. Further, as we seek to expand our operations into new markets, regulatory and licensing requirements may delay our entry into new markets, or make entry into new markets cost-prohibitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or, once obtained, maintain our licenses or registrations in any states where we are required to be licensed or registered to operate our business. Our activities in states where necessary licenses or registrations are not available could be curtailed pending processing of an application, and we may be required to cease operating in states where we do not have valid licenses or registrations. We could also become subject to civil or criminal penalties for operating without required licenses or registrations. These costs may be substantial and may materially impair our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company fails to maintain adequate insurance, our financial results could be negatively impacted. We carry standard general liability insurance in amounts determined to be reasonable by our management. We are also covered through standard worker’s compensation insurance against claims by our employees for injuries and other conditions contacted while on the job. Although we believe we are adequately insured, if we fail to adequately assess our insurance needs or if a significant amount of claims are made by workers or others, there can be no assurance that the amount of such claims will not exceed our available insurance, resulting in a material negative impact on our financial results. This could have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We are heavily dependent on our senior management, and a loss of a member of our senior management team could cause our stock price to suffer. If we lose members of our senior management, we may not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis, and our business could be adversely affected. Our existing operations and continued future development depend to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of certain key individuals, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining the services of these or other key personnel. If we were to lose any of these individuals, we may not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our inability to hire, train and retain qualified employees could cause our financial condition to suffer. The success of our business is highly dependent upon our ability to hire, train and retain qualified employees. We face competition from other employers for laborers, and the availability of labor is limited, particularly in areas serviced by our Restoration and Construction Services segment. We must offer a competitive employment package in order to hire and retain employees, and any increase in competition for labor may require us to increase wages or benefits in order to maintain a sufficient work force, resulting in higher operation costs. Additionally, we must successfully train our employees in order to provide high-quality services. In the event of high turnover or a labor shortage, we may experience difficulty in providing consistent high-quality services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have identified 18 material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. We have identified several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as discussed in Item 9A. 8 Table of Contents Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. We may be unable to pay our debts when due, which could materially impact our profitability and our stock price. Historically we have incurred debt in order to pursue our acquisition strategy, and we will likely incur additional debt in the future as we continue to implement our business plan, which involves engaging in strategic acquisitions. There is no guarantee that revenues from operations will be sufficient to pay our debts as they become due. We may need to attract new investors or lenders in order to refinance existing debt or incur new debt, and we may not be successful in doing so. Even if we are able to attract new investors or lenders or otherwise obtain additional financing, we could still suffer financial hardships if unexpected expenses arise or if revenues fail to meet our expectations. If we fail to obtain financing or attract other investors, our results of operations may suffer, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. SPECIFIC RISKS RELATED TO RESTORATION AND CONSTRUCTION SERVICES Our subsidiaries Fireline and HSR of Louisiana are involved in providing restoration and construction services to disaster-ravaged areas and the southern United States. Our management has identified certain risks which it believes relate specifically to our restoration and construction services segment, which are set forth below. The need for restoration services is unpredictable and depends upon the nature and extent of weather-related emergencies. Our restoration services are significantly impacted by the frequency and intensity of weather-related emergencies, which causes the results of this segment of our business to fluctuate. Historically, the nature and frequency of weather-related emergencies has fluctuated between periods of relative calm, as compared to periods with weather-related events of greater frequency or intensity. In a period with few weather-related emergencies or in which weather-related emergencies cause comparatively less damage, we expect our revenues from this business segment to decline. Although emergencies and disasters will always occur, we cannot predict the frequency of occurrence, where they will occur and the extent of damage that will result. All of these factors impact the need for restoration and construction services. If the need for restoration services decline, our results of operations could suffer. If we fail to win contracts that are ultimately reimbursable by insurers and federal, state and local governments, it may impede our ability to grow our restoration services segment. The end users of our restoration services currently consist primarily of large commercial businesses and homeowners that have the funds and resources to begin recovery of their properties that have been damaged in natural disasters. We believe that individuals and smaller commercial businesses who have experienced damage or destruction to their homes and properties, but do not have the resources to respond immediately, will rely upon insurance companies and federal, state and local governments to assist them in repairing their properties. We pursue bids on recovery services contracts, the costs of which are likely to be reimbursed by insurance agencies and government branches and agencies. Some of our competitors may have better resources than we do or may have long standing relationships that will place us at a competitive disadvantage in winning contracts that are ultimately reimbursable by insurance or government funds. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining contracts that are reimbursable by insurance and government funds, it may impede the ability of our restoration and construction services segment to continue to grow, which could result in a reduction in revenues and a decline in the price of our common stock. If insurance proceeds and federal funds are not available to our customers, then our revenues may decline, and the demand for our restoration and construction services may decline. There is no assurance that any particular contract for our restoration and construction services segment will ultimately be paid by insurance or reimbursed by government funds. If insurance proceeds or federal funds are not available to reimburse customers for our restoration and construction services, then our current customers may delay or forego payment on current projects, and potential new customers may delay projects until funds are available, or decide not to rebuild. If a lack of insurance proceeds or federal funds causes a delay in payment or a failure to pay one or more individual material contracts, or a significant aggregate amount of smaller contracts, then our revenues could decline, perhaps significantly. Furthermore, overall demand for recovery services could decrease, resulting in decreased demand for our services and a decrease in our revenues. 9 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ if we do not comply with the NASDAQ continued listing standards. We have only been listed on NASDAQ since July 2006, and prior to that, we were on the American Stock Exchange from June 2003 through July 2006. To maintain our listing, we must meet NASDAQ’s continued listing standards. If our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ for any reason, it would reduce our liquidity and could seriously reduce the value of our common stock, reduce our ability to raise additional financing, limit our use of equity instruments to satisfy outstanding obligations, and limit our ability to attract qualified employees. Any or all of these factors could result in stockholders losing a portion or all of their investment in the Company. Because of our low stock price, we may become subject to “penny stock” regulations, which place restrictions on the trading of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5 per share, subject to certain exemptions. Our trading price has historically ranged from $1 to $3 per share in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2004, and from $1 to $6 in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, although our common stock traded generally at prices above $5 per share in fiscal 2006. Regardless of our current trading price, we are currently exempt from complying with the SEC’s penny stock regulations because our common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ. However, we could become subject to the penny stock regulations if we are delisted from NASDAQ or if the SEC expands the coverage of its penny stock regulations so that NASDAQ listing is no longer an exemption. The penny stock regulations provide that unless an exemption is available, a penny stock transaction must be preceded by the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and its risks. In addition, under these regulations broker/dealers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than established customers and certain accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the proposed transaction prior to the sale. If we become subject to penny stock regulations, it would be more difficult for investors to purchase or sell our common stock due to the additional restrictions imposed by those regulations, which could reduce our stock price. Effects of anti-takeover provisions could inhibit potential investors or delay or prevent a change of control that may favor stockholders. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could, together or separately: • discourage potential acquisition proposals; • delay or prevent a change in control; and • limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In particular, our board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock and debt instruments with rights and privileges that might be senior to our common stock, without the consent of the holders of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock and debt instruments could cause the price of our common stock to decline, even if our business is doing well. We have not paid dividends in the past, and do not anticipate paying dividends in the future. We have not paid or declared cash dividends to the holders of our common stock, and do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. We intend to use any excess funds from our operations to operate and grow our Company. We cannot assure you that we will ever pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 