ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The short- and long-term success of Fonix is subject to certain risks, many of which are substantial in nature and outside the control of Fonix. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to other information contained herein. When used in this Report, words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although there may be certain forward-looking statements not accompanied by such expressions. Additionally, statements that relate to future business development, financial projections, capital raising, capital requirements, growth of markets or customer bases, or future business combinations may also include forward-looking statements. You should understand that several factors govern whether any forward-looking statement contained herein will or can be achieved. Any one of those factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein. These forward-looking statements include plans and objectives of management for future operations, including the strategies, plans and objectives relating to the products and the future economic performance of Fonix and its subsidiaries discussed above. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of any such statement should not be regarded as a representation by Fonix or any other person that the objectives or plans of Fonix will be achieved. Fonix disclaims any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statement contained herein. Our substantial and continuing losses since inception, coupled with significant ongoing operating expenses, raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Since inception, we have sustained substantial losses. Such losses continue due to ongoing operating expenses and a lack of revenues sufficient to offset operating expenses. We have raised capital to fund ongoing operations by private sales of our securities, some of which sales have been highly dilutive and involve considerable expense. In our present circumstances, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern absent significant sales of our products and telecommunication services, substantial revenues from new licensing or co-development contracts, or continuing large sales of our securities. We had net loss of $6,169,000 for December 31, 2008, and net income of $14,959,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007 and a net loss of $21,943,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $286,367,000, negative working capital of $44,471,000, derivative liabilities of $34,582,000 related to the issuance of Series L Preferred Stock, Series M Preferred Stock, Series N Preferred Stock, Series O Preferred Stock, Series P Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock of our subsidiary, accrued liabilities of $6,510,000, accounts payable of $1,801,000 and deferred revenues of $445,000. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to enhance our Speech Products and technologies and fund further Product development. As a result, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we do not achieve and maintain profitability, the market price for our common stock may further decline, perhaps substantially, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. Continuing debt obligations could impair our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2008, we had debt obligations of $917,000, accrued liabilities of $6,510,000 and vendor accounts payable of approximately $1,801,000. At present, our revenues from existing licensing arrangements and Speech Product sales are not sufficient to offset our ongoing operating expenses or to pay in full our current debt obligations. There is substantial risk, therefore, that the existence and extent of the debt obligations described above could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition, and we may be forced to curtail our operations, sell part or all of our assets, or seek protection under bankruptcy laws. Additionally, there is substantial risk that the current or former employees or our vendors could bring lawsuits to collect the unpaid amounts. In the event of lawsuits of this type, if we are unable to negotiate settlements or satisfy our obligations, we could be forced to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. 13 Holders of Fonix Class A common stock are subject to the risk of additional and substantial dilution to their interests as a result of the issuances of Class A common stock in connection with conversions of the outstanding series of preferred stock. The following table describes the number of shares of Class A common stock that would be issuable, assuming that the full principal amount of the various series of preferred stock listed were converted into shares of our Class A common stock as of March 16, 2009 (irrespective of the availability of registered shares or conversion limitations imposed by the applicable certificates of designation), and further assuming that the applicable conversion price at the time of such put were the following amounts: Hypothetical Conversion Price Shares issuable upon Conversion of Series L Preferred Stock (1,494 shares outstanding) Shares issuable upon Conversion of Series M Preferred Stock (150 shares outstanding) Shares issuable upon Conversion of Series N Preferred Stock (1,755 shares outstanding) Shares issuable upon Conversion of Series O Preferred Stock (730 shares outstanding) Shares issuable upon Conversion of Series P Preferred Stock (1,305 shares outstanding) Shares issuable upon Conversion of Fonix Speech Series B Preferred Stock* (125 shares outstanding) Total shares issuable upon conversion of outstanding Preferred Stock $0.01 1,494,000,000 150,000,000 175,500,000 73,000,000 13,005,000,000 125,000,000 3,322,500,000 $0.02 747,000,000 75,000,000 87,750,000 36,500,000 652,500,000 62,500,000 1,661,250,000 $0.03 498,000,000 50,000,000 58,500,000 24,333,333 435,000,000 41,666,666 1,107,500,000 $0.05 298,800,000 30,000,000 35,100,000 14,600,000 261,000,000 25,000,000 664,500,000 $0.10 149,400,000 15,000,000 17,550,000 7,300,000 130,500,000 12,500,000 332,250,000 $0.20 74,700,000 7,500,000 8,775,000 3,650,000 65,250,000 6,250,000 166,125,000 $0.50 29,880,000 3,000,000 3,510,000 1,460,000 26,100,000 2,500,000 66,450,000 * The Fonix Speech Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of Fonix Corporation Class A common stock. Given the formulas for calculating the shares to be issued in connection with conversions of the various series of preferred stock, there effectively is no limitation on the number of shares of Class A common stock which may be issued in connection with conversions of the outstanding shares of preferred stock, except for the number of shares available for issuance under the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation. As such, shareholders are subject to the risk of substantial dilution to their interests as a result of our issuance of shares in connection with conversions of the series of preferred stock listed above. We have no dividend history and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on or in connection with any class of our common stock and do not intend to pay any dividends to common stockholders for the foreseeable future. Competition from other industry participants and rapid technological change could impede our ability to achieve profitable operations. Additionally, our current and potential competitors, some of whom have greater resources and experience than we do, may develop products and technologies that may cause a decline in demand for, and the prices of, our Speech Products. The speech-enabled technologies market sector and telecommunications industry are characterized by rapid technological change. Competition in the speech-enabled technologies market is based largely on marketing ability and resources, distribution channels, technology and product superiority and product service and support. A number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete with our Speech Products and Core Technologies. Competitors in the speech technology software market include IBM, SpeechWorks International, Nuance, and VoiceSignal. We expect additional competition from other companies, including Microsoft. Furthermore, our competitors may combine with each other, and other companies may enter our markets by acquiring or entering into strategic relationships with our competitors. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the abilities of their speech and language technology products to address the needs of our prospective customers. 14 Many of our current and potential competitors have competitive advantages over us, including substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources, including brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with customers. These resources may place us at competitive disadvantage in our existing speech and telecommunications markets and may impair our ability to expand into new markets, which could adversely affect our business. If we fail to grow rapidly or obtain additional capital we may not be able to compete with larger, more well established companies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in our existing markets or in new markets. We may incur a variety of costs to engage in future acquisitions of companies, products or technologies to grow our customer base, to expand into new markets, or to provide new services. As such, the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions may never be realized. We may acquire other businesses to grow our customer base, to expand into new markets, or to provide new services. We may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies, although no additional material acquisitions or investments are currently pending. Acquisitions may be accompanied by risks such as: • difficulties in assimilating the operations and employees of acquired companies; • diversion of our management's attention from ongoing business concerns; • our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • additional expense associated with amortization of acquired assets; • additional expense associated with understanding and development of acquired business; • maintenance and implementation of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • impairment of existing relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new management employees. We must attract and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain technical, sales and marketing and operational employees, our business could be harmed. Our ability to manage our growth will be particularly dependent on our ability to develop and retain an effective sales force and qualified technical and managerial personnel. We intend to hire additional employees, including software engineers, sales and marketing employees and operational employees. The competition for qualified sales, technical, and managerial personnel in the communications industry, as well as the speech technology industry, is intense, and we may not be able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the quality of our operations, control our costs, maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, and expand our internal management, technical, information and accounting systems in order to support our desired growth, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. We are subject to the risk that certain key personnel, including key scientific employees named below, on whom we depend, in part, for our operations, will cease to be involved with us. We are dependent on the knowledge, skill and expertise of several key scientific and business development employees, including Dale Lynn Shepherd and Ron Lowe; and executive officers, including Roger D. Dudley. The loss of any of the key personnel listed above could materially and adversely affect our future business efforts. Although we have taken reasonable steps to protect our intellectual property rights including obtaining non-competition and non-disclosure agreements from all of our employees and independent contractors, if one or more of our key scientific employees, executive employees or independent contractors resigns from Fonix to join a competitor, to the extent not prohibited by such person's non-competition and non-disclosure agreement, the loss of such personnel and the employment of such personnel by a competitor could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not presently have any key man life insurance on any of our employees. 15 As of the date of this Report, our board of directors consisted of one individual, and we had only one executive officer. As such, management of the Company is consolidated in one individual. On Wednesday, March 5, 2008, Thomas A. Murdock resigned as Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Murdock also resigned all officer and director positions he held with Fonix Speech, Inc., Fonix/AcuVoice, Inc., Fonix/Papyrus Corporation, Fonix UK, Ltd., and Fonix Sales, Korea Group, Ltd., all subsidiaries of the Company. Additionally, on Wednesday, March 5, 2008, William A. Maasberg resigned as director of the Company, although he continued to serve as our Chief Operating Officer until March 31, 2008. In connection with the resignation of Messrs. Murdock and Maasberg, the Company appointed Roger D. Dudley, who was serving as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as the Company’s Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Dudley will continue to serve as Chief Financial Officer. Following the resignations of Messrs. Murdock and Maasberg, Mr. Dudley is the sole director of the Company. Although our bylaws and Delaware corporate law permit the continuation of business with a sole director, this situation results in an absence of the typical checks and balances that are present where a board of directors consists of even two individuals. Additionally, although we have in place controls and procedures relating to the operation of the Company, the positions of Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) and Chief Financial Officer (principal accounting officer) are held by one individual, again resulting in the absence of checks and balances. Such consolidation of management roles may also subvert certain of our operational controls and procedures. An inability to market and develop additional services may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Through Fonix Speech, we offer speech technology solutions and products. In order to address the future needs of our customers, we will be required to market and develop additional products and services. We may not be able to continue to provide the range of speech products or telecommunication services that our customers need or desire. We may lose some of our customers or be unable to attract new customers if we cannot offer the products and services our customers need or desire. Our common stock is considered a penny stock. Penny stocks are subject to special regulations, which may make them more difficult to trade on the open market. Securities in the OTC market are generally more difficult to trade than those on the NASDAQ National Market, the NASDAQ SmallCap Market or the major stock exchanges. In addition, accurate price quotations are also more difficult to obtain. The trading market for our common stock is subject to special regulations governing the sale of penny stock. A “penny stock” is defined by regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission as an equity security with a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The market price of our Class A common stock has been less than $5.00 for several years. If you buy or sell a penny stock, these regulations require that you receive, prior to the transaction, a disclosure explaining the penny stock market and associated risks. Furthermore, trading in our common stock would be subject to Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act, which relates to non-NASDAQ and non-exchange listed securities. Under this rule, broker-dealers who recommend our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Securities are exempt from this rule if their market price is at least $5.00 per share. 16 Penny stock regulations will tend to reduce market liquidity of our common stock, because they limit the broker-dealers' ability to trade, and a purchaser's ability to sell the stock in the secondary market. The low price of our common stock will have a negative effect on the amount and percentage of transaction costs paid by individual shareholders. The low price of our common stock may also limit our ability to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares. There are several reasons for these effects. First, the internal policies of many institutional investors prohibit the purchase of low-priced stocks. Second, many brokerage houses do not permit low-priced stocks to be used as collateral for margin accounts or to be purchased on margin. Third, some brokerage house policies and practices tend to discourage individual brokers from dealing in low-priced stocks. Finally, broker's commissions on low-priced stocks usually represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks. As a result, our shareholders will pay transaction costs that are a higher percentage of their total share value than if our share price were substantially higher. We have a limited Speech Product offering, and many of our key technologies are still in the product development stage. Presently, there are a limited number of commercially available Speech Products incorporating our Core Technologies. For Fonix to be ultimately successful, sales from these Speech Products must be substantially greater. An additional element of our business strategy is to achieve revenues through strategic alliances, co-development arrangements, and license arrangements with third parties. For example, we have entered into licensing and joint-marketing agreements with Sony, Electronic Arts, Microsoft, Epson, Casio, Canon, Ubisoft, OC3, Harmonix, and others. These agreements provide for joint marketing and application development for end-users or customers. To date, these agreements have not produced significant revenues. There can be no assurance that these collaboration agreements will produce license or other agreements which will generate significant revenues for us. The market for many of our Core Technologies and Speech Products is largely unproven and may never develop sufficiently to allow us to capitalize on our Core Technology and Speech Products. The market for speech-enabled Speech Products is rapidly evolving. Additionally, our Speech Products are new and, in many instances, represent a significant departure from technologies which already have found a degree of acceptance in the speech-enabled technologies marketplace. Our financial performance will depend, in part, on the future development, growth and ultimate size of the market for speech-enabled applications and Speech Products generally, and applications and products incorporating our Speech Products. If the potential users of speech-enabled software in general and our products in particular do not perceive appropriate benefits, or if speech-enabled software platforms do not achieve commercial acceptance, our business could be harmed or even fail. The Speech Products which incorporate our Core Technologies will be competing with more conventional means of information processing such as data entry, access by keyboard, mouse or touch-tone telephone. We believe that there is a substantial potential market for applications and products incorporating advanced speech-enabled technologies. Nevertheless, such a market for our Speech Products may never develop to the point that profitable operations can be achieved or sustained. Our Speech Products may not achieve widespread acceptance by businesses or telecommunications carriers, which could limit our ability to grow our business. Our ability to increase revenue in the future depends on the acceptance of speech-enabling products and applications by both our customers and end users. The adoption and integration of speech-enabling products and applications could be hindered by the perceived costs of these new products and applications, as well as the reluctance of enterprises that have invested substantial resources in existing applications to replace their current systems with these new products and applications. Accordingly, in order to achieve commercial acceptance, we will have to educate prospective customers, including large, established companies, about the uses and benefits of speech-enabling products and applications in general and our Speech Products in particular. If these efforts fail, or if speech-enabling products and technology platforms do not achieve commercial acceptance, our business will not develop or may subsequently fail. Continued development of the market for our Speech Products also will depend upon the following factors over which we have little or no control: 17 • widespread deployment of speech-enabling applications by third parties, which is driven by consumer demand for services having a voice user interface; • demand for new uses and applications of speech-enabling technology, including adoption of speech-enabled interfaces by companies that operate web sites; • adoption of industry standards for speech-enabling and related technologies; and • continuing improvements in hardware technology that may reduce the costs of speech-enabling technology solutions. In many cases, the delivery of our Speech Products to end users is dependent upon third-party integration and may be subject to delays and cancellations that are beyond our control. Generally, we are pursuing third-party integration of our Speech Products into mass market, general business, personal electronics products, and computing solutions. Thus, lead time to revenue recognition will be longer than software products directly released into consumer channels. Purchase of our Speech Products often requires a significant expenditure by a customer. Accordingly, the decision to purchase our Speech Products typically requires significant pre-purchase evaluation. We spend significant time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our Speech Products. During this evaluation period, we may expend substantial sales, marketing and management resources. Further, our Speech Products sold and integrated into customer applications and products are subject to both customer production schedules and customer success in marketing their own products and generating product sales. Our revenues are thus subject to delays and possible cancellation resulting from customer integration risks and delays. In cases where our contract with our customers specifies milestones or acceptance criteria, we may not be able to recognize license or services revenue until these conditions are met. We have in the past and may in the future experience unexpected delays in recognizing revenue. Consequently, the length of our sales and implementation cycles and the varying order amounts for our Speech Products make it difficult to predict the quarter in which revenue recognition may occur and may cause license and services revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. These factors could cause our stock price to be volatile or to decline. Our Speech Products can have a long sales cycle and, as a result, our quarterly operating results and our stock price may fluctuate. The sales cycles for our Speech Products are generally six to twelve months but may be shorter or longer depending on the size and complexity of the order, the amount of services to be provided and whether the sale is made directly by us or indirectly through an OEM, VAR, or systems integrator. The length of the sales cycles could adversely impact our operating results. Our failure to respond to rapid change in the speech-enabled technologies market could cause us to lose revenue and could harm our business. Our success will depend substantially upon our ability to enhance our existing Speech Products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new technologies, Speech Products and features that meet changing end-user requirements and incorporate technological advancements. If we are unable to develop new Speech Products and enhanced functionalities or technologies to adapt to these changes, or if we cannot offset a decline in revenue from existing Speech Products with sales of new Speech Products, our business will suffer. Commercial acceptance of our Speech Products will depend, among other things, on: • the ability of our Speech Products to meet and adapt to the needs of our target markets; • the performance and price of our Speech Products and our competitors' products; and • our ability to deliver customer services directly and through our resellers, VARs and OEM partners. 18 In order to increase our international sales, we must increase the foreign language capacities of our Speech Products. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to grow our revenue and execute our business strategy. We intend to expand our international sales, which requires a significant investment to create and refine different language models for each particular language or dialect. These language models are required to create versions of products that allow end users to speak the local language or dialect and be understood. If we fail to develop additional foreign language capacity of our Speech Products, our ability to benefit from international market opportunities and to grow our business will be limited. Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property or if our technologies are found to infringe the intellectual property of a third party. Dependence on proprietary technology Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology. Certain elements of our Core Technologies are the subject of nine patents issued and allowed by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and seven other patent applications which are pending. In addition to our patents, we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Such means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate because such laws provide only limited protection. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to duplicate aspects of our technologies or the current or future products or technologies of our business units or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary rights is difficult, and some international laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation periodically may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Risks of our infringement upon the technology of unrelated parties or entities We are not aware and do not believe that any of our technologies or products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. Nevertheless, third parties may claim infringement with respect to our current or future technologies or products or products manufactured by others and incorporating our technologies. We expect that developers of speech-enabled technologies increasingly will be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the industry grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Responding to any such claims, whether or not they are found to have merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause development delays, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. Royalty or license agreements may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, infringement claims could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. There may be additional unknown risks, which could have a negative effect on our business. The risks and uncertainties described in this section are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the foregoing risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 