Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K, including the items included as exhibits. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risk. At December 31, 2010, our loan portfolio consisted of $94.6 million, or 29.8%, of commercial real estate loans, $26.8 million, or 8.4%, of construction loans (primarily commercial properties), and $22.3 million, or 7.0%, of commercial and industrial loans and leases. We intend to continue to maintain our emphasis on the origination of commercial loans. However, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy o f the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Commercial and construction loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial and industrial loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flows of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Cons equently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We may be required to increase our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For 2010, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $1.9 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $1.7 million. The recent economic recession has contributed to the relatively high levels of loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets as of December 31, 2010. Our nonperforming loans totaled $11.2 million, representing 3.5% of total loans. In addition, loans that we have classified as substandard totaled $8.1 million, representing 2.6% of total loans. If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the collateral is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience loan losses, which could have a material effect on our operating results. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. 27 In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. At December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.33%. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The economic recession could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area in particular. The national economy has recently experienced a recessi on, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have negatively affected the performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions, including the Bank. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could further impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in central Indiana. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact ou r interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our earnings. Continuation of the economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, which would hurt our revenues. Our cost of operations is high relative to our assets. Our failure to maintain or reduce our operating expenses costs could hurt our profits. Our operating expenses, which consist primarily of salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, furniture and equipment expense, professional fees, data processing expense, FDIC insurance premiums and assessments, and marketing, totaled $16.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $17.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. We continue our concerted effort to effectively manage our expenses. Our efficiency ratio totaled 87.8% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 92.6% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Failure to control our expenses could hurt future profits . Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investment less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. ; Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. 28 The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We opened a full-service banking center in Fishers, Indiana in October 2008, a second banking center in Carmel in December 2008 and a third in Westfield in May 2009. We also purchased property in Plainfield in 2008 with the expectation to begin construction on a new full-service banking center, but those plans were put on hold until such time it is determined that the economy and other conditions warrant the required investment. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act contains various provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. These include provisions strengthening holding company capital requirements, requiring retention of a portion of the risk of securitized loans and regulating debit card interchange fees. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lendi ng laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter en ded June 30, 2009, was $225,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $2.7 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. According to the FDIC, as of June 30, 2010, we held 31.42% of the deposits in Henry County, Indiana, which was the second largest market share of deposits out of the six financial institutions that held deposits in this county. We also held 9.80% of the deposits in Hancock County, Indiana, whi ch was the fourth largest market share of deposits out of the 10 financial institutions that held deposits in this county. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, its chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC are not intended to prot ect the interests of investors in the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. 29 The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. Our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. Although our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Market, it has not been regularly traded. We cannot predict whether a more active trading market in our common stock will occur or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in interest rates; · changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; · press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; · future sales of our common stock; · changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and · other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. Failure to comply with the restrictions and conditions in the resolutions adopted by our board at the request of our regulators could result in additional enforcement action against us. On September 28, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Bank adopted a resolution agreeing to higher capital requirements, requirements to reduce the level of our classified and criticized assets and restrictions on dividend payments. On July 26, 2010, following a joint examination by and discussions with the FDIC and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, the Board of Directors of the Bank adopted a resolution with the same requirements, except for an additional 0.50% increase in the Tier 1 Leverage Ratio to 8.50% . These restrictions may impede our ability to operate our business. Additionally, on December 17, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Company, at the request of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, adopted a resolution requiring the Board to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank at least thirty days before taking any of the following actions: · The payment of corporate dividends; · The payment of interest on trust preferred securities; 30 · Any increase in debt or issuance of trust preferred obligations (the request for approval should include a written debt service plan indicating how payments will be made without causing further strain on Ameriana Bank’s capital position); and · The redemption of Ameriana Bancorp stock. The resolution will remain in effect until the Federal Reserve Bank authorizes the Board to rescind the resolution. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the board resolutions, our regulators could take enforcement action against us, including the imposition of further operating restrictions. These enforcement actions could take the form of a memorandum of understanding or a cease and desist order. Any informal or formal enforcement action could harm our reputation and our ability to retain or attract customers or employees and impact the trading price of our common stock. We may require additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We anticipate that we have adequate capital for the foreseeable future. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth or if we incur significant loan or securities impairment. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through inte rnal growth could be materially impaired. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Indiana law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate law of the State of Indiana could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder mee tings. In addition, we are subject to Indiana laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. We may not be able to realize the full value of our deferred tax asset. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities, coupled with unused tax credits and tax benefits from operating loss carryforwards. At December 31, 2010, our net deferred tax asset was $4.9 million. The net deferred tax asset was composed of approximately $3.5 million of tax benefit from both state and federal net operating loss carryforwards, approximately $1.3 million of tax benefit from temporary differences between book and tax income and an unused federal tax credit of $1.0 million, reduced by a valuation allow ance of $879,000. We regularly review our deferred tax asset for recoverability based on our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences, as well as tax strategies available to expedite the use of both the deferred state tax asset and the deferred federal tax asset. Realization of our deferred tax asset ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient future taxable income. We currently expect that it is more likely than not that our net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2010 will be fully realizable based on our expected future earnings. Realization of our deferred tax asset would significantly improve our earnings and capital through a related reversal of the current valuation allowance. 31 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 