Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K, including the items included as exhibits. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our increased emphasis on commercial and construction lending may expose us to increased lending risk. At December 31, 2009, our loan portfolio consisted of $104.2 million, or 31.9%, of commercial real estate loans, $30.9 million, or 9.5%, of construction loans, and $23.6 million, or 7.2%, of commercial and industrial loans and leases. We intend to continue to increase our emphasis on the origination of commercial and construction lending. However, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial and industrial loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Our provision for loan losses increased substantially during the past fiscal year and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For 2009, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $2.2 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $1.2 million. We are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. The deterioration in the general economy and our market area has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets as of December 31, 2009. Our nonperforming loans totaled $9.1 million, representing 2.78% of total loans. In addition, loans that we have classified as substandard totaled $6.7 million, representing 2.1% of total loans. If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the collateral is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience loan losses, which could have a material effect on our operating results. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. At December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.23%. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Our cost of operations is high relative to our assets. Our failure to maintain or reduce our operating expenses costs could hurt our profits. Our operating expenses, which consist primarily of salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, furniture and equipment expense, professional fees, data processing expense, FDIC insurance premiums and assessments, and marketing, totaled $17.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We continued our concerted effort to effectively manage our expenses, but experienced the increase in 2009 due primarily to higher FDIC insurance premiums and assessments, and costs associated with the new banking centers that are part of our Indianapolis metropolitan market retail expansion strategy. Although we generated an increase in both net interest income on a tax equivalent basis and noninterest income, we experienced an increase in our efficiency ratio as a result of the higher operating expenses. Our efficiency ratio totaled 92.6% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 89.2% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Failure to control our expenses could hurt future profits. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investment less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We opened a full-service banking center in Fishers in October 2008, a second banking center in Carmel in December 2008 and a third in Westfield in May 2009. We also have purchased property in Plainfield with the expectation to begin construction on a new full-service banking center in 2011. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $225,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC has adopted a rule requiring that all institutions prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Under the rule, the assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 is based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 will be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional 3 basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period will be calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Under this rule, we made a payment of $2.9 million to the FDIC on December 30, 2009. We recorded the fourth quarter assessment of $193,000 as a charge to earnings, and recorded $2.7 million as a prepaid expense that will be amortized over the three-year assessment period. 27 If the value of real estate in central Indiana were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Central Indiana has experienced declines in home prices over the past two years. A further decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A continued decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Since the latter half of 2007, depressed economic conditions have existed throughout the United States, including our market area. Our market area has experienced home price declines, increased foreclosures and increased unemployment rates. Continued deterioration of economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in Indiana could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and our stock price. As a result of the general economic downturn and uncertainty in the financial markets, commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. According to the FDIC, as of June 30, 2009, we held 33.9% of the deposits in Henry County, Indiana, which was the largest market share of deposits out of the six financial institutions that held deposits in this county. We also held 10.8% of the deposits in Hancock County, Indiana, which was the fourth largest market share of deposits out of the 10 financial institutions that held deposits in this county. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, its chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC are not intended to protect the interests of investors in the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. 28 The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. Our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. Although our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Market, it has not been regularly traded. We cannot predict whether a more active trading market in our common stock will occur or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in interest rates; · changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; · press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; · future sales of our common stock; · changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and · other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. Failure to comply with the restrictions and conditions in the resolutions adopted by our board at the request of our regulators could result in additional enforcement action against us. On September 28, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Bank, adopted a resolution agreeing to higher capital requirements, requirements to reduce the level of our classified and criticized assets and restrictions on dividend payments. These restrictions may impede our ability to operate our business. Additionally, on December 17, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Company, at the request of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, adopted a resolution requiring the Board to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank at least thirty days before taking any of the following actions: · The payment of corporate dividends; · The payment of interest on trust preferred securities; · Any increase in debt or issuance of trust preferred obligations (the request for approval should include a written debt service plan indicating how payments will be made without causing further strain on Ameriana Bank’s capital position); and · The redemption of Ameriana Bancorp stock. The resolution will remain in effect until the Federal Reserve Bank authorizes the Board to rescind the resolution. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the board resolutions, our regulators could take enforcement action against us, including the imposition of further operating restrictions. These enforcement actions could take the form of a memorandum of understanding or a cease and desist order. Any informal or formal enforcement action could harm our reputation and our ability to retain or attract customers or employees and impact the trading price of our common stock. 29 We may require additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We anticipate that we have adequate capital for the foreseeable future. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth or if we incur significant loan or securities impairment. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth could be materially impaired. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Indiana law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate law of the State of Indiana could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Indiana laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Item 