Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K, including the items included as exhibits. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investment less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. For further discussion on how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition—Interest Rate Risk.” Our increased emphasis on commercial and construction lending may expose us to increased lending risk. At December 31, 2008, our loan portfolio consisted of $98.2 million, or 30.1%, of commercial real estate loans, $39.3 million, or 12.1%, of construction loans, and $21.2 million, or 6.5%, of commercial and industrial loans. We intend to continue to increase our emphasis on the origination of commercial and construction lending. However, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial and industrial loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Our level of non-performing loans and classified assets expose us to increased lending risks. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2008, our nonperforming loans totaled $6.2 million, representing 1.9% of total loans. In addition, loans that we 24 Table of Contents have classified as substandard totaled $5.0 million, representing 1.5% of total loans. If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the collateral is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience loan losses, which could have a material effect on our operating results. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. At December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 0.92%. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our cost of operations is high relative to our assets. Our failure to maintain or reduce our operating expenses costs could hurt our profits. Our operating expenses, which consist primarily of salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, furniture and equipment expense, professional fees and data processing expense, totaled $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to $14.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our efficiency ratio totaled 89.2% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 100.0% for the year ended December 31, 2007. We continue our concerted effort to effectively manage our expenses, as is evidenced by the improvement realized in our efficiency ratio in 2008 compared to 2007, that was due primarily to a net interest income growth rate that exceeded the growth rate for operating expenses. However, the failure to control our expenses could hurt our profits. Future FDIC Assessments Will Hurt Our Earnings. In February 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim final rule imposing a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 20 basis points of insured deposits as of June 30, 2009. The assessment will be collected on September 30, 2009. The special assessment will negatively impact the Company’s earnings and the Company expects that the special assessment will amount to approximately $740,000. In addition, the interim rule would also permit the FDIC to impose additional emergency special assessments after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points per quarter if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessments imposed by the FDIC will further hurt the Company’s earnings. Additionally, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased the assessment rates for deposits by seven basis points for the first quarter of 2009. The FDIC has the authority to further increase insurance assessments, which would have an adverse impact on our non-interest expenses and results of operations. If we do not achieve profitability on our new offices, it may negatively impact our earnings. We opened a new loan production office in Carmel, Indiana in April 2007, a new full-service banking center in Fishers, Indiana in November 2008, and another in Carmel in January 2009. We also expect to open a new full-service banking center in Westfield, Indiana in the second quarter of 2009. Numerous factors will impact the performance of a new office, such as a suitable location, competition from other financial institutions, qualified personnel and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new office to generate significant deposits and loans to 25 Table of Contents produce enough income to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. We expect that it may take a period of time before our new offices can become profitable. During this period, operating these new offices may negatively impact our net income. If the value of real estate in central Indiana were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With most of our loans concentrated in central Indiana, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Because the majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in central Indiana our success significantly depends to a significant extent upon economic conditions in central Indiana. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in Indiana could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. According to the FDIC, as of June 30, 2008, we held 32.5% of the deposits in Henry County, Indiana, which was the largest market share of deposits out of the five financial institutions that held deposits in this county. We also held 9.4% of the deposits in Hancock County, Indiana, which was the fourth largest market share of deposits out of the 10 financial institutions that held deposits in this county. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. Our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. Although our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Market, it has not been regularly traded. We cannot predict whether a more active trading market in our common stock will occur or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in interest rates; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; 26 Table of Contents • press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; • future sales of our common stock; • changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and • other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, its chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC are not intended to protect the interests of investors in the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Indiana law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate law of the State of Indiana could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Indiana laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. We may require additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We anticipate that we have adequate capital for the foreseeable future. Based on this determination and an assessment that the restrictions contained in the Troubled Asset Relief Program’s Capital Purchase Program could adversely affect our ability to successfully operate our business, our board of directors determined not to participate in the Capital Purchase Program, even though it had been preliminarily approved. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth or if we incur significant loan or securities impairment. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us or on financial terms that were comparable to that offered through the Capital Purchase Program. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth could be materially impaired. 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 Table of Contents 