Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K, including the items included as exhibits. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risk. At December 31, 2013, our loan portfolio consisted of $104.8 million, or 33.1%, of commercial real estate loans, $11.4 million, or 3.6%, of construction loans (primarily commercial properties) and $29.3 million, or 9.2%, of commercial and industrial loans and leases. We intend to continue to maintain our emphasis on the origination of commercial loans. However, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Commercial and construction loans typically involve larger loan balances compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial and industrial loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flows of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Our nonperforming assets remain elevated and we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For 2013, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $755,000. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $1.0 million. The continuing weakened economy has contributed to relatively high levels of loan delinquencies and other nonperforming assets as of December 31, 2013. Our nonperforming loans totaled $5.1 million, representing 1.60% of total loans, at December 31, 2013. In addition, loans that we have classified as special mention, substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $15.3 million, representing 4.8% of total loans, at December 31, 2013. If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the collateral is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may be required to add further reserves to our allowance for loan losses or we may experience loan losses, which could have a material effect on our operating results. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. 27 Table of Contents In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. At December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.26%. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A return to recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States’ subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. A return of recessionary conditions and/or negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our levels of nonperforming and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. Our cost of operations is high relative to our assets. Our failure to maintain or reduce our operating expenses costs could hurt our profits. Our operating expenses, which consist primarily of salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, furniture and equipment expense, professional fees, data processing expense, FDIC insurance premiums and assessments, and marketing, totaled $16.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $15.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. We continue our concerted effort to effectively manage our expenses, which was a key driver of our decision to close our McCordsville banking center. The Company’s efficiency ratio totaled 81.1% for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to 81.4% for the year ended December 31, 2012. Failure to control our expenses could hurt future profits. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investment less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our interest rate spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, as a result, our net interest income and net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Changes in interest rates can also affect: (1) our ability to originate loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. 28 Table of Contents The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We opened a full-service banking center in Fishers, Indiana in October 2008, a second banking center in Carmel in December 2008 and a third in Westfield in May 2009. We also purchased property in Plainfield in 2008 with the expectation to begin construction of a new full-service banking center, but those plans were put on hold because of the immediate following economic conditions. The Bank purchased two vacant banking centers on June 7, 2013 located in Hamilton County, which is in the Indianapolis metropolitan area, and is in the process of determining the appropriate time to open each office, as well as building on the Plainfield property, based on the Bank’s long-term expansion strategy. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Regulatory reform legislation may have a material impact on the value of our stock. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”) was passed , which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are: • changes to regulatory capital requirements; • creation of new government regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which oversees systemic risk, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which develops and enforces rules for bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products); • potential limitations on federal preemption; • changes to deposit insurance assessments; • regulation of debit interchange fees we earn; • changes in retail banking regulations, including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge; and • changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments. Some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon its enactment. Many provisions, however, will require regulations to be promulgated by various federal agencies to be implemented, some but not all of which have been proposed or finalized by the applicable federal agencies. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have unintended effects, which will not be clear until after implementation. Certain changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to investors in our common stock. 29 Table of Contents Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $225,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $2.7 million. $708,000 of the $2.7 million, which represented the remaining prepaid balance at the time, was refunded to the Bank in 2013. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. We may not be able to realize the full value of our deferred tax asset. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities, coupled with unused tax credits and tax benefits from operating loss carryforwards. At December 31, 2013, our net deferred tax asset was $5.0 million. The net deferred tax asset was composed of approximately $2.1 million of tax benefit from both state and federal net operating loss carryforwards, approximately $1.5 million of tax benefit from temporary differences between book and tax income and an unused federal tax credit of $2.2 million, reduced by a valuation allowance of $813,000. We regularly review our deferred tax asset for recoverability based on our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences, as well as tax strategies available to expedite the use of both the deferred state tax asset and the deferred federal tax asset. Realization of our deferred tax asset ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient future taxable income. We currently expect that it is more likely than not that our net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2013 will be fully realizable based on our expected future earnings. Realization of our deferred tax asset would significantly improve our earnings and capital through a related reversal of the current valuation allowance. Any reduction in the corporate tax rate for federal or state income taxes would immediately result in partial impairment of the book value of the deferred tax asset, and require a write-down that would be charged against earnings in the year of the enactment of the related tax law. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. According to the FDIC, as of June 30, 2013, we held 29.4% of the deposits in Henry County, Indiana, which was the second largest market share of deposits out of the six financial institutions that held deposits in this county. We also held 8.6% of the deposits in Hancock County, Indiana, which was the fourth largest market share of deposits out of the seven financial institutions that held deposits in this county. We also maintain offices in four other counties in which we held between 0.8% and 5.4% of the deposits in those counties as of June 30, 2013. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to entry, allowed banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Changes in federal law permit affiliation among banks, securities firms and insurance companies, which promotes a competitive environment in the financial services industry. Competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit the Company’s growth in the future. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, its chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC are not intended to protect the interests of 30 Table of Contents investors in the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. Our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. Although our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Market, it has not been regularly traded. We cannot predict whether a more active trading market in our common stock will occur or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in interest rates; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; • press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; • future sales of our common stock; • changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and • other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. We may require additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We anticipate that we have adequate capital for the foreseeable future. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth or if we incur significant loan or securities impairment. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth could be materially impaired. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Indiana law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate law of the State of Indiana could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Indiana laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination 31 Table of Contents with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we provide our customers with the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us. Additionally, financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. New capital rules that were recently issued generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital. The impact of the new rules on our financial condition and operations is uncertain but could be materially adverse. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule for the Basel III capital framework. These rules substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The rules phase in over time beginning in 2015 and will become fully effective in 2019. The rules apply to the Company as well as to the Bank. Beginning in 2015, our minimum capital requirements will be (i) a common Tier 1 equity ratio of 4.5%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital (common Tier 1 capital plus Additional Tier 1 capital) of 6% (up from 4%) and (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (the current requirement). Our leverage ratio requirement will remain at the 4% level now required. Beginning in 2016, a capital conservation buffer will phase in over three years, ultimately resulting in a requirement of 2.5% on top of the common Tier 1, Tier 1 and total capital requirements, resulting in a require common Tier 1 equity ratio of 7%, a Tier 1 ratio of 8.5%, and a total capital ratio of 10.5%. Failure to satisfy any of these three capital requirements will result in limits on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. 32 Table of Contents We are subject to a variety of operational risks, environmental, legal and compliance risks, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by the Bank can also result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be misappropriated, mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, erroneously providing such information to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or the interception or inappropriate acquisition of such information by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in our diminished ability to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. The geographic concentration of our markets in Indiana makes our business highly susceptible to downturns in these local economies and depressed banking markets, which could materially and adversely affect us. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, we are a regional banking franchise concentrated in certain markets in Indiana. Our success depends significantly on growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in the geographic markets in which we operate. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in, and further deterioration of, the economic conditions in the markets in which we operate in Indiana could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and profitability. A continuing deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business: • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; and • collateral for loans that we make may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the our loans. 33 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 