ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The short- and long-term success of Fonix is subject to certain risks, many of which are substantial in nature and outside the control of Fonix. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to other information contained herein. When used in this Report, words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although there may be certain forward-looking statements not accompanied by such expressions. Additionally, statements that relate to future business development, financial projections, capital raising, capital requirements, growth of markets or customer bases, or future business combinations may also include forward-looking statements. You should understand that several factors govern whether any forward-looking statement contained herein will or can be achieved. Any one of those factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein. These forward-looking statements include plans and objectives of management for future operations, including the strategies, plans and objectives relating to the products and the future economic performance of Fonix and its subsidiaries discussed above. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of any such statement should not be regarded as a representation by Fonix or any other person that the objectives or plans of Fonix will be achieved. Fonix disclaims any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statement contained herein. Our substantial and continuing losses since inception, coupled with significant ongoing operating expenses, raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Since inception, we have sustained substantial losses. Such losses continue due to ongoing operating expenses and a lack of revenues sufficient to offset operating expenses. We have raised capital to fund ongoing operations by private sales of our securities, some of which sales have been highly dilutive and involve considerable expense. In our present circumstances, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern absent significant sales of our products and telecommunication services, substantial revenues from new licensing or co-development contracts, or continuing large sales of our securities. We incurred net losses of $21,943,000, $22,631,000 and $15,148,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $291,200,000, negative working capital of $52,957,000, derivative liabilities of $20,941,000 related to the issuance of Series L Preferred Stock and Series E Debentures, net liabilities of discontinued subsidiaries of $20,819,000 related to the telecom assets subject to bankruptcy, accrued liabilities and accrued settlement obligation of $3,584,000, accounts payable of $1,504,000 and current portion of notes payable of $3,683,000. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to enhance our Speech Products and technologies and fund further Product development. As a result, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we do not achieve and maintain profitability, the market price for our common stock may further decline, perhaps substantially, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. Continuing debt obligations could impair our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2006, we had debt obligations of $6,671,000, accrued liabilities and accrued settlement obligation of $3,584,000 and vendor accounts payable of approximately $1,504,000. At present, our revenues from existing licensing arrangements and Speech Product sales are not sufficient to offset our ongoing operating expenses or to pay in full our current debt obligations. There is substantial risk, therefore, that the existence and extent of the debt obligations described above could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition, and we may be forced to curtail our operations, sell part or all of our assets, or seek protection under bankruptcy laws. Additionally, there is substantial risk that the current or former employees or our vendors could bring lawsuits to collect the unpaid amounts. In the event of lawsuits of this type, if we are unable to negotiate settlements or satisfy our obligations, we could be forced into bankruptcy. 13 The Breckenridge Judgment for $1,602,000 could impair our ability to continue as a going concern. On March 15, 2007, the New York State trial court entered a judgment against us for $1,602,000 and in favor of the Breckenridge Fund (the “Breckenridge Judgment”). The judgment arises out of our failure to pay the balance due under a settlement agreement with Breckenridge entered into in September 2005. The Company does not have cash sufficient to pay the Breckenridge Judgment. The Company presently does not have resources to acquire cash to pay the Breckenridge Judgment. The Company has been unable to negotiate a settlement under which it would pay the Breckenridge Judgment. If the Company continues to be unable to obtain resources sufficient to pay the Breckenridge Judgment, or a lesser amount agreed to as a result of further settlement discussions, Breckenridge could attempt to collect the balance due under the Breckenridge Judgment by attaching and executing on property of the Company, subject to existing security interests. Such collection activity could be disruptive to the Company’s business and future prospects. Management may have to devote considerable time to defending against Breckenridge collection activities. There is substantial risk, therefore, that the existence of the Breckenridge Judgment and all collection activity arising in connection with the judgment could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition and we may be forced to curtail our operations, sell part or all o four assets or seek protection under bankruptcy laws. We currently do not have access to the Seventh Equity Line or other equity lines of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations. Since 2000, we have relied substantially on equity lines of credit for financing our operations. Pursuant to these equity lines, we historically have drawn funds against the equity line and put shares of our Class A common stock to the equity line investor in repayment of the draws. In light of current SEC regulations and interpretations by the SEC, we terminated the Seventh Equity Line and as of the date of the Report, we did not have access to an equity line of credit or similar financing arrangements. Although we are seeking to negotiate additional financing sources and reviewing our options, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to enter into arrangements for financing that will be on terms that will be satisfactory to us. Any inability to enter into new financing arrangements could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue our operations, and we may be required to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. If we do not receive additional capital when and in the amounts needed in the near future, our ability to continue as a going concern is in substantial doubt. We previously established six equity lines of credit with an unaffiliated third party (the “Equity Line Investor”) upon which we drew to pay operating expenses. We recently terminated the Seventh Equity Line agreement in light of regulatory changes, and we do not anticipate that we will be able to enter into another similar financing arrangement in the near future. We have recently issued two convertible debentures which are convertible into shares of our Class A common stock, but we will need to receive additional capital in the near future to be able to continue as a going concern. 14 Holders of Fonix Class A common stock are subject to the risk of additional and substantial dilution to their interests as a result of the issuances of Class A common stock in connection with conversions of the outstanding Debentures. The following table describes the number of shares of Class A common stock that would be issuable, assuming that the full principal amount of the Southridge Debenture and the McCormack Debenture were converted into shares of our Class A common stock as of March 19, 2007 (irrespective of the availability of registered shares), and further assuming that the applicable conversion price at the time of such put were the following amounts: Hypothetical Conversion Price Shares issuable upon Conversion of Southridge Debenture (Principal amount of $850,000) Shares issuable upon Conversion of McCormack Debenture (Principal amount of $1,039,000) Total shares issuable upon conversion of outstanding Debentures $0.001 850,000,000 1,039,000,000 1,889,000,000 $0.002 425,000,000 519,500,000 944,500,000 $0.003 283,333,333 346,333,333 629,666,666 $0.005 170,000,000 207,800,000 377,800,000 $0.01 85,000,000 103,900,000 188,900,000 $0.02 42,500,000 51,950,000 94,450,000 $0.05 17,000,000 20,780,000 37,780,000 Given the formulas for calculating the shares to be issued in connection with conversions of the Southridge Debenture and the McCormack Debenture, there effectively is no limitation on the number of shares of Class A common stock which may be issued in connection with conversions of the Southridge Debenture and the McCormack Debenture, except for the number of shares registered under the prospectus and the registration statement covering the resale of shares issued in connection with the Southridge Debenture and the McCormack Debenture. As such, shareholders are subject to the risk of substantial dilution to their interests as a result of our issuance of shares in connection with conversions of the Southridge Debenture and the McCormack Debenture. Existing shareholders likely will experience increased dilution with decreases in market value of Class A common stock in connection with shares issued upon conversion of the Southridge Debenture and the McCormack Debenture, which could have a material adverse impact on the value of their shares. The formula for determining the number of shares of Class A common stock to be issued in connection with conversions of the Southridge Debenture and the McCormack Debenture is based, in part, on the market price of the Class A common stock and includes a discount from the market price equal to 70% of the average of the two lowest closing bid prices of the Class A common stock over a specified trading period. As a result, the lower the market price of our Class A common stock at and around the time Southridge or McCormack convert the Southridge Debenture or the McCormack Debenture, respectively, the more shares of Class A common stock Southridge and McCormack would receive. Any increase in the number of shares of Class A common stock issued upon conversion of the Southridge Debenture and the McCormack Debenture as a result of decreases in the prevailing market price would compound the risks of dilution described in the preceding paragraph. There is an increased potential for short sales of the Class A common stock due to the sales of shares issued upon conversion of the Southridge Debenture, which could materially affect the market price of the stock. Downward pressure on the market price of the Class A common stock that likely will result from sales of the Class A common stock by Southridge issued in connection with a conversions of the Southridge Debenture could encourage short sales of Class A common stock by market participants other than Southridge. Generally, short selling means selling a security, contract or commodity not owned by the seller. The seller is committed to eventually purchase the financial instrument previously sold. Short sales are used to capitalize on an expected decline in the security's price. As Southridge converts principal amount of the Southridge Debenture, we issue shares to Southridge, which Southridge then sells into the market. Such sales could have a tendency to depress the price of the stock, which could increase the potential for short sales. 15 Under applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, any person engaged in the distribution of the resale shares may not simultaneously engage in market making activities with respect to the Common Stock for the applicable restricted period, as defined in Regulation M, prior to the commencement of the distribution. In addition, Southridge will be subject to applicable provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, including Regulation M, which may limit the timing of purchases and sales of shares of the Common Stock by Southridge or any other person. We will make copies of this prospectus available to Southridge and have informed it of the need to deliver a copy of this prospectus to each purchaser at or prior to the time of the sale. Nevertheless, significant amounts of such short selling by market participants other than Southridge could place further downward pressure on the market price of our Class A common stock, which would, in turn, result in additional shares being issued in connection with conversions of the Debenture. Certain restrictions on the extent of conversions of the Southridge Debenture may have little, if any, effect on the adverse impact of our issuance of shares in connection with the Southridge Debenture, and as such, Southridge may sell a large number of shares, resulting in substantial dilution to the value of shares held by existing shareholders. Southridge has agreed, subject to certain exceptions listed in the Southridge Debenture, to refrain from converting amounts of the Debenture which would result in Southridge owning more than 4.999% of the then-outstanding shares of Class A common stock. These restrictions, however, do not prevent Southridge from selling shares of Class A common stock received in connection with a conversion, and then receiving additional shares of Class A common stock in connection with a subsequent conversion. In this way, Southridge could sell more than 4.999% of the outstanding Class A common stock in a relatively short time frame while never holding more than 4.999% at one time. We have no dividend history and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on or in connection with any class of our common stock and do not intend to pay any dividends to common stockholders for the foreseeable future. Competition from other industry participants and rapid technological change could impede our ability to achieve profitable operations. Additionally, our current and potential competitors, some of whom have greater resources and experience than we do, may develop products and technologies that may cause a decline in demand for, and the prices of, our Speech Products. The speech-enabled technologies market sector and telecommunications industry are characterized by rapid technological change. Competition in the speech-enabled technologies market is based largely on marketing ability and resources, distribution channels, technology and product superiority and product service and support. A number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete with our Speech Products and Core Technologies. Competitors in the speech technology software market include IBM, SpeechWorks International, Nuance, and VoiceSignal. We expect additional competition from other companies, including Microsoft. Furthermore, our competitors may combine with each other, and other companies may enter our markets by acquiring or entering into strategic relationships with our competitors. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the abilities of their speech and language technology products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Many of our current and potential competitors have competitive advantages over us, including substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources, including brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with customers. These resources may place us at competitive disadvantage in our existing speech and telecommunications markets and may impair our ability to expand into new markets, which could adversely affect our business. If we fail to grow rapidly or obtain additional capital we may not be able to compete with larger, more well established companies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in our existing markets or in new markets. 16 We may incur a variety of costs to engage in future acquisitions of companies, products or technologies to grow our customer base, to expand into new markets, or to provide new services. As such, the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions may never be realized. We may acquire other businesses to grow our customer base, to expand into new markets, or to provide new services. We may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies, although no additional material acquisitions or investments are currently pending. Acquisitions may be accompanied by risks such as: • difficulties in assimilating the operations and employees of acquired companies; • diversion of our management's attention from ongoing business concerns; • our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • additional expense associated with amortization of acquired assets; • additional expense associated with understanding and development of acquired business; • maintenance and implementation of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • impairment of existing relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new management employees. We must attract and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain technical, sales and marketing and operational employees, our business could be harmed. Our ability to manage our growth will be particularly dependent on our ability to develop and retain an effective sales force and qualified technical and managerial personnel. We intend to hire additional employees, including software engineers, sales and marketing employees and operational employees. The competition for qualified sales, technical, and managerial personnel in the communications industry, as well as the speech technology industry, is intense, and we may not be able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the quality of our operations, control our costs, maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, and expand our internal management, technical, information and accounting systems in order to support our desired growth, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. We are subject to the risk that certain key personnel, including key scientific employees named below, on whom we depend, in part, for our operations, will cease to be involved with us. We are dependent on the knowledge, skill and expertise of several key scientific and business development employees, including Dale Lynn Shepherd, R. Brian Moncur and Walt Nawrocki; and executive officers, including Thomas A. Murdock, Roger D. Dudley and William A. Maasberg, Jr. The loss of any of the key personnel listed above could materially and adversely affect our future business efforts. Although we have taken reasonable steps to protect our intellectual property rights including obtaining non-competition and non-disclosure agreements from all of our employees and independent contractors, if one or more of our key scientific employees, executive employees or independent contractors resigns from Fonix to join a competitor, to the extent not prohibited by such person's non-competition and non-disclosure agreement, the loss of such personnel and the employment of such personnel by a competitor could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not presently have any key man life insurance on any of our employees. An inability to market and develop additional services may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Through Fonix Speech, we offer speech technology solutions and products. In order to address the future needs of our customers, we will be required to market and develop additional products and services. We may not be able to continue to provide the range of speech products or telecommunication services that our customers need or desire. We may lose some of our customers or be unable to attract new customers if we cannot offer the products and services our customers need or desire. 17 Our common stock is considered a penny stock. Penny stocks are subject to special regulations, which may make them more difficult to trade on the open market. Securities in the OTC market are generally more difficult to trade than those on the NASDAQ National Market, the NASDAQ SmallCap Market or the major stock exchanges. In addition, accurate price quotations are also more difficult to obtain. The trading market for our common stock is subject to special regulations governing the sale of penny stock. A “penny stock” is defined by regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission as an equity security with a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The market price of our Class A common stock has been less than $5.00 for several years. If you buy or sell a penny stock, these regulations require that you receive, prior to the transaction, a disclosure explaining the penny stock market and associated risks. Furthermore, trading in our common stock would be subject to Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act, which relates to non-NASDAQ and non-exchange listed securities. Under this rule, broker-dealers who recommend our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Securities are exempt from this rule if their market price is at least $5.00 per share. Penny stock regulations will tend to reduce market liquidity of our common stock, because they limit the broker-dealers' ability to trade, and a purchaser's ability to sell the stock in the secondary market. The low price of our common stock will have a negative effect on the amount and percentage of transaction costs paid by individual shareholders. The low price of our common stock may also limit our ability to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares. There are several reasons for these effects. First, the internal policies of many institutional investors prohibit the purchase of low-priced stocks. Second, many brokerage houses do not permit low-priced stocks to be used as collateral for margin accounts or to be purchased on margin. Third, some brokerage house policies and practices tend to discourage individual brokers from dealing in low-priced stocks. Finally, broker's commissions on low-priced stocks usually represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks. As a result, our shareholders will pay transaction costs that are a higher percentage of their total share value than if our share price were substantially higher. We have a limited Speech Product offering and many of our key technologies are still in the product development stage. Presently, there are a limited number of commercially available Speech Products incorporating our Core Technologies. For Fonix to be ultimately successful, sales from these Speech Products must be substantially greater. An additional element of our business strategy is to achieve revenues through strategic alliances, co-development arrangements, and license arrangements with third parties. For example, we have entered into licensing and joint-marketing agreements with Sony, Electronic Arts, Intel, Microsoft, HP, Panasonic, Epson, and others. These agreements provide for joint marketing and application development for end-users or customers. To date, these agreements have not produced significant revenues. There can be no assurance that these collaboration agreements will produce license or other agreements which will generate significant revenues for us. The market for many of our Core Technologies and Speech Products is largely unproven and may never develop sufficiently to allow us to capitalize on our Core Technology and Speech Products. The market for speech-enabled Speech Products is rapidly evolving. Additionally, our Speech Products are new and, in many instances, represent a significant departure from technologies which already have found a degree of acceptance in the speech-enabled technologies marketplace. Our financial performance will depend, in part, on the future development, growth and ultimate size of the market for speech-enabled applications and Speech Products generally, and applications and products incorporating our Speech Products. If the potential users of speech-enabled software in general and our products in particular do not perceive appropriate benefits, or if speech-enabled software platforms do not achieve commercial acceptance, our business could be harmed or even fail. 18 The Speech Products which incorporate our Core Technologies will be competing with more conventional means of information processing such as data entry, access by keyboard, mouse or touch-tone telephone. We believe that there is a substantial potential market for applications and products incorporating advanced speech-enabled technologies. Nevertheless, such a market for our Speech Products may never develop to the point that profitable operations can be achieved or sustained. Our Speech Products may not achieve widespread acceptance by businesses or telecommunications carriers, which could limit our ability to grow our business. Our ability to increase revenue in the future depends on the acceptance of speech-enabling products and applications by both our customers and end users. The adoption and integration of speech-enabling products and applications could be hindered by the perceived costs of these new products and applications, as well as the reluctance of enterprises that have invested substantial resources in existing applications to replace their current systems with these new products and applications. Accordingly, in order to achieve commercial acceptance, we will have to educate prospective customers, including large, established companies, about the uses and benefits of speech-enabling products and applications in general and our Speech Products in particular. If these efforts fail, or if speech-enabling products and technology platforms do not achieve commercial acceptance, our business will not develop or may subsequently fail. Continued development of the market for our Speech Products also will depend upon the following factors over which we have little or no control: • widespread deployment of speech-enabling applications by third parties, which is driven by consumer demand for services having a voice user interface; • demand for new uses and applications of speech-enabling technology, including adoption of speech-enabled interfaces by companies that operate web sites; • adoption of industry standards for speech-enabling and related technologies; and • continuing improvements in hardware technology that may reduce the costs of speech-enabling technology solutions. In many cases, the delivery of our Speech Products to end users is dependent upon third-party integration and may be subject to delays and cancellations that are beyond our control. Generally, we are pursuing third-party integration of our Speech Products into mass market, general business, personal electronics products, and computing solutions. Thus, lead time to revenue recognition will be longer than software products directly released into consumer channels. Purchase of our Speech Products often requires a significant expenditure by a customer. Accordingly, the decision to purchase our Speech Products typically requires significant pre-purchase evaluation. We spend significant time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our Speech Products. During this evaluation period, we may expend substantial sales, marketing and management resources. Further, our Speech Products sold and integrated into customer applications and products are subject to both customer production schedules and customer success in marketing their own products and generating product sales. Our revenues are thus subject to delays and possible cancellation resulting from customer integration risks and delays. In cases where our contract with our customers specifies milestones or acceptance criteria, we may not be able to recognize license or services revenue until these conditions are met. We have in the past and may in the future experience unexpected delays in recognizing revenue. Consequently, the length of our sales and implementation cycles and the varying order amounts for our Speech Products make it difficult to predict the quarter in which revenue recognition may occur and may cause license and services revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. These factors could cause our stock price to be volatile or to decline. 19 Our Speech Products can have a long sales cycle and, as a result, our quarterly operating results and our stock price may fluctuate. The sales cycles for our Speech Products are generally six to twelve months but may be shorter or longer depending on the size and complexity of the order, the amount of services to be provided and whether the sale is made directly by us or indirectly through an OEM, VAR, or systems integrator. The length of the sales cycles could adversely impact our operating results. Our failure to respond to rapid change in the speech-enabled technologies market could cause us to lose revenue and could harm our business. Our success will depend substantially upon our ability to enhance our existing Speech Products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new technologies, Speech Products and features that meet changing end-user requirements and incorporate technological advancements. If we are unable to develop new Speech Products and enhanced functionalities or technologies to adapt to these changes, or if we cannot offset a decline in revenue from existing Speech Products with sales of new Speech Products, our business will suffer. Commercial acceptance of our Speech Products will depend, among other things, on: • the ability of our Speech Products to meet and adapt to the needs of our target markets; • the performance and price of our Speech Products and our competitors' products; and • our ability to deliver customer services directly and through our resellers, VARs and OEM partners. In order to increase our international sales, we must increase the foreign language capacities of our Speech Products. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to grow our revenue and execute our business strategy. We intend to expand our international sales, which requires a significant investment to create and refine different language models for each particular language or dialect. These language models are required to create versions of products that allow end users to speak the local language or dialect and be understood. If we fail to develop additional foreign language capacity of our Speech Products, our ability to benefit from international market opportunities and to grow our business will be limited. Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property or if our technologies are found to infringe the intellectual property of a third party. Dependence on proprietary technology Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology. Certain elements of our Core Technologies are the subject of nine patents issued and allowed by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and seven other patent applications which are pending. In addition to our patents, we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Such means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate because such laws provide only limited protection. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to duplicate aspects of our technologies or the current or future products or technologies of our business units or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary rights is difficult, and some international laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation periodically may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Risks of our infringement upon the technology of unrelated parties or entities 20 We are not aware and do not believe that any of our technologies or products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. Nevertheless, third parties may claim infringement with respect to our current or future technologies or products or products manufactured by others and incorporating our technologies. We expect that developers of speech-enabled technologies increasingly will be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the industry grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Responding to any such claims, whether or not they are found to have merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause development delays, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. Royalty or license agreements may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, infringement claims could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. There may be additional unknown risks, which could have a negative effect on our business. The risks and uncertainties described in this section are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the foregoing risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 