ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS The short- and long-term success of Fonix is subject to certain risks, many of which are substantial in nature and outside the control of Fonix. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to other information contained herein. All forward-looking statements contained herein are deemed by Fonix to be covered by and to qualify for the safe harbor protection provided by Section 21E of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in this Report, words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although there may be certain forward-looking statements not accompanied by such expressions. You should understand that several factors govern whether any forward-looking statement contained herein will or can be achieved. Any one of those factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein. These forward-looking statements include plans and objectives of management for future operations, including the strategies, plans and objectives relating to the products and the future economic performance of Fonix and its subsidiaries discussed above. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of any such statement should not be regarded as a representation by Fonix or any other person that the objectives or plans of Fonix will be achieved. Risk Factors Associated with All of our Operations Our substantial and continuing losses since inception, coupled with significant ongoing operating expenses, raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Since inception, we have sustained substantial losses. Such losses continue due to ongoing operating expenses and a lack of revenues sufficient to offset operating expenses. We have raised capital to fund ongoing operations by private sales of our securities, some of which sales have been highly dilutive and involve considerable expense. In our present circumstances, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern absent significant sales of our products and telecommunication services, substantial revenues from new licensing or co-development contracts, or continuing large sales of our securities. We incurred net losses of $22,631,000, $15,148,000 and $13,543,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $250,521,000, accrued liabilities and accrued legal settlement of $10,214,000 and owed trade payables of $6,770,000. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to expand our telecommunications services, enhance our Speech Products and technologies and fund further Product development. As a result, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we do not achieve and maintain profitability, the market price for our common stock may further decline, perhaps substantially, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. The “going concern” paragraph in the reports of our independent registered public accounting firm for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 raises doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. The independent registered public accounting firm’s reports for our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 include an explanatory paragraph regarding substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain financing for operations and to further develop and market Speech Products. LecStar's current operations may not provide sufficient cash flow to sustain operations, and we may be required to divert proceeds from our Seventh Equity Line towards offsetting cash flow shortfalls at LecStar for an indefinite time period. If we do not receive additional capital when and in the amounts needed in the near future, our ability to continue as a going concern is in substantial doubt. We previously established six equity lines of credit with an unaffiliated third party (the “Equity Line Investor”) upon which we drew to pay operating expenses. We have entered into a Seventh Equity Line agreement wherein we have previously registered the sale of up to 100,000,000 shares of Class A common stock and have registered the sale of up to another 300,000,000 shares of Class A common stock. As of March 10, 2006, $15,573,000 remained available under the Seventh Equity Line. 14 LecStar’s operations did not generate sufficient operating revenue to pay all operating expenses in 2005 and required us to fund some of its operations and liabilities through our otherwise available financing sources, including the Seventh Equity Line. There can be no assurance that LecStar will become self-sufficient during 2006 or at all, or that if LecStar becomes self-sufficient whether it will be able to maintain such level of operations. If we are required to provide significant operating capital to LecStar for extended periods, our business and financial condition could be adversely and materially affected. Accordingly, if we are not able to obtain adequate financing under the existing or additional equity line agreements or from other financing sources when and in the amounts needed, and on terms that are acceptable, our operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected, and we could be forced to curtail our operations or sell part or all of our assets, including our Core Technologies, LTEL or LecStar, or seek protection under bankruptcy laws. Continuing debt obligations could impair our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2005, we had debt obligations of $6,383,000, accrued liabilities and accrued legal settlement of $10,214,000 and vendor accounts payable of approximately $6,770,000. At present, our revenues from existing licensing arrangements, Speech Product sales and telecommunication services are not sufficient to offset our ongoing operating expenses or to pay in full our current debt obligations. In connection with the acquisition of the capital stock of LTEL, we issued a 5% $10,000,000 secured, six-year note payable to McCormack Avenue, Ltd. Under the terms of the note payable, quarterly interest only payments were required through January 15, 2005 with quarterly principal and interest payments which began April 2005 through the final payment due January 2010. There is substantial risk, therefore, that the existence and extent of the debt obligations described above could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition, and we may be forced to curtail our operations, sell part or all of our assets, including the Core Technologies, LTEL or LecStar, or seek protection under bankruptcy laws. Additionally, there is substantial risk that the current or former employees or our vendors could bring lawsuits to collect the unpaid amounts. In the event of lawsuits of this type, if we are unable to negotiate settlements or satisfy our obligations, we could be forced into bankruptcy. There can be no guarantee that the proceeds available to us under the Seventh Equity Line will be sufficient for us to achieve profitable operations or to pay our current liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue operations. There is no assurance that the funds which are available to us under the Seventh Equity Line will be sufficient to allow us to continue our marketing and sales efforts to the point we achieve profitable operations. Additionally, the payment of our current outstanding liabilities may require significant portions of the funds available to us under the Seventh Equity Line, and the amounts remaining may not be sufficient for us to use as working capital in our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our operations. 15 Holders of Fonix Class A common stock are subject to the risk of additional and substantial dilution to their interests as a result of the issuances of Class A common stock in connection with the Seventh Equity Line. The following table describes the number of shares of Class A common stock that would be issuable, assuming that the full remaining amount available under the Seventh Equity Line as of March 10, 2006, namely $15,573,000, had been put to the Equity Line Investor (irrespective of the availability of registered shares), and further assuming that the applicable conversion price at the time of such put were the following amounts: Hypothetical Conversion Price Shares issuable upon puts aggregating $15,573,000 $0.03 519,100,000 $0.05 311,460,000 $0.10 155,730,000 $0.15 103,820,000 $0.25 62,292,000 $0.30 51,910,000 Given the formulas for calculating the shares to be issued in connection with puts under the Seventh Equity Line, there effectively is no limitation on the number of shares of Class A common stock which may be issued in connection with a put under the Seventh Equity Line, except for the number of shares registered under the prospectus and the registration statement covering the resale of shares issued in connection with the Seventh Equity Line. As such, shareholders are subject to the risk of substantial dilution to their interests as a result of our issuance of shares under the Seventh Equity Line. For example, if the Company were to draw down $3,000,000, at March 10, 2006, under the Seventh Equity Line, the number of shares issuable would be approximately 167,000,000. As of March 10, 2006, we had 481,309,900 shares of our Class A common stock issued and outstanding. An issuance of 167,000,000 would constitute an increase of approximately 35%. By way of information, during 2005 and through March 10, 2006, our stock price ranged from $0.02 to $0.19 per share. Holders of Fonix Class A common stock are subject to the risk of additional and substantial dilution to their interests as a result of the issuances of Class A common stock in connection with conversions of shares of the Series K Preferred Stock. As noted above, on February 6, 2006, we entered into an exchange agreement with Southridge Partners, LP (“Southridge”), whereby Southridge exchanged all of the shares of Series J 5% Convertible Preferred Stock that it owned for 1,093 shares of the Company’s Series K 5% Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series K Preferred Stock”). The Series K Preferred Stock has a stated value of $1,000 per share. The conversion price of the Series K Preferred Stock is $0.01 per share. As such, upon conversion of the full amount of Series K Preferred Stock, Southridge will receive 109,300,000 shares of our common stock, resulting in additional dilution to the interests of holders of our common stock. Our issuances of shares in connection with the conversions of the Series K Preferred Stock and in connection with the Seventh Equity Line likely will result in overall dilution to market value and relative voting power of previously issued common stock, which could result in substantial dilution to the value of shares held by shareholders. Historically, the issuance of Class A common stock to the Equity Line Investor under the first six equity lines resulted in substantial dilution to the equity interests of all holders of Class A common stock, except the Equity Line Investor. The issuance of Class A common stock in connection with conversions of the Series K Preferred Stock and with draws under the Seventh Equity Line may result in substantial dilution to the equity interests of holders of Fonix Class A common stock other than Southridge and the Equity Line Investor. Specifically, the issuance of a significant amount of additional Class A common stock will result in a decrease of the relative voting control of the Class A common stock issued and outstanding prior to the issuance of Class A common stock in connection with conversions of the Series K Preferred Stock or with puts under the Seventh Equity Line. Furthermore, public resales of Class A common stock by Southridge or by the Equity Line Investor following the issuance of Class A common stock in connection with conversions of the Series K Preferred Stock or with puts under the Seventh Equity Line likely will depress the prevailing market price of the Class A common stock. Even prior to the time of actual conversions, exercises, and public resales, the market “overhang” resulting from the mere existence of our obligation to honor such conversions or exercises could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. 16 Existing shareholders likely will experience increased dilution with decreases in market value of Class A common stock in relation to our issuances of shares upon conversion of the Series K Preferred Stock or in connection with puts made under the Seventh Equity Line, which could have a material adverse impact on the value of their shares. The formula for determining the number of shares of Class A common stock to be issued in connection with puts made under the Seventh Equity Line is based, in part, on the market price of the Class A common stock and includes a discount from the market price equal to 93% of the average of the two lowest closing bid prices of the Class A common stock for puts under the Seventh Equity Line, over a specified trading period. The conversion price of the Series K Preferred Stock is $0.01 per share. As a result, the lower the market price of our Class A common stock at and around the time we put shares under the Seventh Equity Line, the more shares of Class A common stock the Equity Line Investor would receive. Any increase in the number of shares of Class A common stock issued upon puts of shares as a result of decreases in the prevailing market price would compound the risks of dilution described in the preceding paragraph. There is an increased potential for short sales of the Class A common stock due to the sales of shares put to the Equity Line Investor in connection with the Seventh Equity Line, which could materially affect the market price of the stock. Downward pressure on the market price of the Class A common stock that likely will result from sales of the Class A common stock by the Equity Line Investor issued in connection with a put under the Seventh Equity Line could encourage short sales of Class A common stock by market participants other than the Equity Line Investor. Generally, short selling means selling a security, contract or commodity not owned by the seller. The seller is committed to eventually purchase the financial instrument previously sold. Short sales are used to capitalize on an expected decline in the security's price. As we draw on the Seventh Equity Line, we put shares to the Equity Line Investor, which the Equity Line Investor then sells into the market. Such sales could have a tendency to depress the price of the stock, which could increase the potential for short sales. Under applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, any person engaged in the distribution of the resale shares may not simultaneously engage in market making activities with respect to the Common Stock for the applicable restricted period, as defined in Regulation M, prior to the commencement of the distribution. In addition, the Equity Line Investor will be subject to applicable provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, including Regulation M, which may limit the timing of purchases and sales of shares of the Common Stock by the Equity Line Investor or any other person. We will make copies of this prospectus available to the Equity Line Investor and have informed it of the need to deliver a copy of this prospectus to each purchaser at or prior to the time of the sale. Nevertheless, significant amounts of such short selling by market participants other than the Equity Line Investor could place further downward pressure on the market price of our Class A common stock, which would, in turn, result in additional shares being issued in connection with draws on the Seventh Equity Line. Certain restrictions on the extent of puts may have little, if any, effect on the adverse impact of our issuance of shares under the Seventh Equity Line, and as such, the Equity Line Investor may sell a large number of shares, resulting in substantial dilution to the value of shares held by existing shareholders. We are prohibited from putting shares to the Equity Line Investor under the Seventh Equity Line if such put would result in that investor holding more than 4.999% of the then-outstanding shares of Class A common stock. These restrictions, however, do not prevent the Equity Line Investor from selling shares of Class A common stock received in connection with a put, and then receiving additional shares of Class A common stock in connection with a subsequent put. In this way, the Equity Line Investor could sell more than 4.999% of the outstanding Class A common stock in a relatively short time frame while never holding more than 4.999% at one time. 17 We may not be able to make draws under the Seventh Equity Line if the Equity Line Investor is deemed to beneficially own more than 4.999% of our common stock, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Pursuant to the Seventh Equity Line Agreement, in the event that the Equity Line Investor is deemed to own more than 4.999% of our then-outstanding common stock, we will be unable to draw down on the Seventh Equity Line Agreement. The Equity Line Investor has a contractual advisory relationship with the General Partner of Southridge, the holder of our Series K Preferred Stock. The shares of our Series K Preferred Stock are presently convertible into shares of our Class A common stock, although Southridge is prohibited by the terms of the Series K Preferred Stock Exchange Agreement from converting shares that would result in its owning more than 1.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock at any time. Although the Equity Line Investor and Southridge each disclaim beneficial ownership of the shares held by the other entity, if their holdings are aggregated, such aggregation could result in the Equity Line Investor being deemed to beneficially own the shares which Southridge is deemed to beneficially own. To the extent that the Equity Line Investor is deemed to beneficially own 4.999% or more of our common stock through this aggregation of beneficial ownership with Southridge, we would be unable to draw on the Seventh Equity Line Agreement until such time as that ownership percentage was reduced. In that event, if we are unable to obtain additional external funding or generate revenue from operations, we could be forced to curtail or cease our operations. Certain restrictions on the number of shares of Series K Preferred Stock Southridge may convert at any time may have little, if any, effect on the adverse impact of our issuance of shares upon conversion of the Series K Preferred Stock, and as such, Southridge may sell a large number of shares, resulting in substantial dilution to the value of shares held by existing shareholders. Southridge is prohibited by the Series K Preferred Stock exchange agreement from converting shares of Series K Preferred Stock to the extent that the number of shares we issue upon conversion would result in Southridge’s holding more than 1.0% of the then-outstanding shares of Class A common stock. These restrictions, however, do not prevent Southridge from converting certain shares of Series K Preferred Stock, selling the shares received in connection with the conversion, and then converting additional shares of Series K Preferred Stock in a subsequent conversion. In this way, Southridge could sell more than 1.0% of the outstanding Class A common stock in a relatively short time frame while never holding more than 1.0% at one time. We have registered under registration statements the resale of shares approximately equal to approximately seventy percent of the number of shares currently issued and outstanding, which may result in substantial dilution to current shareholders if the selling shareholders under the other registration statements sell all of the shares under those registration statements. We have filed, in connection with the Seventh Equity Line and the LTEL acquisition, registration statements which register, in the aggregate, the resale by the selling shareholders named in those registration statements of up to approximately 350,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock. As of March 10, 2006, we had 481,309,900 shares of our Class A common stock issued and outstanding. If all of the shares registered in those two registration statements were issued, such issuances would result in an increase of our outstanding shares of approximately seventy percent. Accordingly, the sale by the selling shareholders in those registration statements of all of the shares registered will result in substantial dilution to current holders of our Class A common stock. We have no dividend history and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on or in connection with any class of our common stock and do not intend to pay any dividends to common stockholders for the foreseeable future. Competition from other industry participants and rapid technological change could impede our ability to achieve profitable operations. Additionally, our current and potential competitors, some of whom have greater resources and experience than we do, may develop products and technologies that may cause a decline in demand for, and the prices of, our Speech Products and our telecommunications services. 18 The speech-enabled technologies market sector and telecommunications industry are characterized by rapid technological change. Competition in the speech-enabled technologies market is based largely on marketing ability and resources, distribution channels, technology and product superiority and product service and support. A number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete with our Speech Products and Core Technologies. Competitors in the speech technology software market include IBM, SpeechWorks International, Nuance, and ScanSoft. We expect additional competition from other companies, including Microsoft. Furthermore, our competitors may combine with each other, and other companies may enter our markets by acquiring or entering into strategic relationships with our competitors. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the abilities of their speech and language technology products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Similarly, the market for telecommunications services is highly competitive. We compete, and expect to continue to compete, with current and potential market entrants, including: long-distance carriers; ILECs; other CLECs; competitive access providers (“CAPs”); cable television companies; electric utilities; microwave carriers; wireless telephone system operators; and private networks built by large end-users. In addition, the possibility of combinations and strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry could give rise to significant new competitors. We also expect increased competition from wireless service or voice VoIP providers as wireless and VoIP technologies improve. Many of our current and potential competitors have competitive advantages over us, including substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources, including brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with customers. These resources may place us at competitive disadvantage in our existing speech and telecommunications markets and may impair our ability to expand into new markets, which could adversely affect our business. If we fail to grow rapidly or obtain additional capital we may not be able to compete with larger, more well established companies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in our existing markets or in new markets. We may incur a variety of costs to engage in future acquisitions of companies, products or technologies to grow our customer base, to expand into new markets, or to provide new services. As such, the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions may never be realized. We may acquire other businesses to grow our customer base, to expand into new markets, or to provide new services. We may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies, such as the recent acquisition of the capital stock of LTEL Holdings Corporation, discussed elsewhere herein, although no additional material acquisitions or investments are currently pending. Acquisitions may be accompanied by risks such as: • difficulties in assimilating the operations and employees of acquired companies; • diversion of our management's attention from ongoing business concerns; • our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • additional expense associated with amortization of acquired assets; • additional expense associated with understanding and development of acquired business; • maintenance and implementation of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • impairment of existing relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new management employees. We must attract and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain technical, sales and marketing and operational employees, our business could be harmed. 19 Our ability to manage our growth will be particularly dependent on our ability to develop and retain an effective sales force and qualified technical and managerial personnel. We intend to hire additional employees, including software engineers, sales and marketing employees and operational employees. The competition for qualified sales, technical, and managerial personnel in the communications industry, as well as the speech technology industry, is intense, and we may not be able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the quality of our operations, control our costs, maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, and expand our internal management, technical, information and accounting systems in order to support our desired growth, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. We are subject to the risk that certain key personnel, including key scientific employees named below, on whom we depend, in part, for our operations, will cease to be involved with us. We are dependent on the knowledge, skill and expertise of several key scientific and business development employees, including Dale Lynn Shepherd, R. Brian Moncur, Edward A. Bruckert, W. Dale Smith, Matthew C. Sines and Walt Nawrocki; and executive officers, including Thomas A. Murdock, Roger D. Dudley and William A. Maasberg, Jr. The loss of any of the key personnel listed above could materially and adversely affect our future business efforts. Although we have taken reasonable steps to protect our intellectual property rights including obtaining non-competition and non-disclosure agreements from all of our employees and independent contractors, if one or more of our key scientific employees, executive employees or independent contractors resigns from Fonix to join a competitor, to the extent not prohibited by such person's non-competition and non-disclosure agreement, the loss of such personnel and the employment of such personnel by a competitor could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not presently have any key man life insurance on any of our employees. Our present intention to integrate our Core Technologies into the services currently provided by LecStar may not proceed as planned, may take longer than anticipated, and may not become profitable. We intend to integrate the development and distribution of Speech Products into and through the telephone services and technologies made available to us through the LecStar acquisition. Such integration may require significant additional capital investment and may not be fully financially or technologically feasible. Further, there can be no guarantee that our plans to integrate our Speech Products which utilize our Core Technologies into such telephone services will proceed as anticipated and we may determine subsequently that the integration will not be profitable or have the desired effect for our operations. Any of these outcomes could have a materially adverse impact on our operations and profitability. Our primary source of funding recently has been through the Seventh Equity Line with an entity that may be an affiliate of the holder of our Series H Preferred Stock and a $10 Million promissory note, which may give rise to conflicting interests with respect to the future operation of the Seventh Equity Line. As noted and discussed above, our primary source of funding recently has been the Seventh Equity Line. Under the Seventh Equity Line Agreement, we have the right to draw up to $20,000,000 from the Equity Line Investor. We are entitled under the Seventh Equity Line Agreement to draw certain funds and to put to the Equity Line Investor shares of our Class A common stock in lieu of repayment of the draw. We anticipate that the Seventh Equity Line and perhaps other similar equity line arrangements with the Equity Line Investor or its affiliates will be the primary source of Fonix's funding in 2006. In connection with the acquisition of the capital stock of LTEL, we issued to McCormack Avenue, Ltd., a British Virgin Island corporation (“McCormack”), a $10,000,000 secured promissory note (the “Note”) as well as 1,960.8 shares of our Series H Preferred Stock, for certain shares of LTEL held by McCormack. McCormack may be deemed an affiliate, as defined in rules promulgated under the Securities Act, of the Equity Line Investor. Specifically, McCormack is controlled by a corporate director, the president of which also has voting and investment control over Queen LLC, the Equity Line Investor. As the holder of the Note and a large number of the Series H Preferred Shares, McCormack may receive and, in fact, Fonix is obligated to pay to McCormack amounts as principal and interest on the Note and dividends on the Preferred Shares. To the extent such payments are made out of draws we make under the Seventh Equity Line (or replacements thereof with the Equity Line Investor), it is possible that conflicts of interest could develop in how we draw against, and how the Equity Line Investor participates in, the Seventh Equity Line (or replacements thereof). 20 Additionally, to the extent that we use funds drawn from the Seventh Equity Line to make payments on the McCormack Note, we will have fewer proceeds available to us to use for other corporate purposes, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. An inability to market and develop additional services may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Through LecStar, we currently offer local, long distance, data, and Internet telecommunications services. Through Fonix Speech, we offer speech technology solutions and products. In order to address the future needs of our customers, we will be required to market and develop additional products and services. We may not be able to continue to provide the range of speech products or telecommunication services that our customers need or desire. We may lose some of our customers or be unable to attract new customers if we cannot offer the products and services our customers need or desire. Our common stock is considered a penny stock. Penny stocks are subject to special regulations, which may make them more difficult to trade on the open market. Securities in the OTC market are generally more difficult to trade than those on the NASDAQ National Market, the NASDAQ SmallCap Market or the major stock exchanges. In addition, accurate price quotations are also more difficult to obtain. The trading market for our common stock is subject to special regulations governing the sale of penny stock. A “penny stock” is defined by regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission as an equity security with a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The market price of our Class A common stock has been less than $5.00 for several years. If you buy or sell a penny stock, these regulations require that you receive, prior to the transaction, a disclosure explaining the penny stock market and associated risks. Furthermore, trading in our common stock would be subject to Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act, which relates to non-NASDAQ and non-exchange listed securities. Under this rule, broker-dealers who recommend our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Securities are exempt from this rule if their market price is at least $5.00 per share. Penny stock regulations will tend to reduce market liquidity of our common stock, because they limit the broker-dealers' ability to trade, and a purchaser's ability to sell the stock in the secondary market. The low price of our common stock will have a negative effect on the amount and percentage of transaction costs paid by individual shareholders. The low price of our common stock may also limit our ability to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares. There are several reasons for these effects. First, the internal policies of many institutional investors prohibit the purchase of low-priced stocks. Second, many brokerage houses do not permit low-priced stocks to be used as collateral for margin accounts or to be purchased on margin. Third, some brokerage house policies and practices tend to discourage individual brokers from dealing in low-priced stocks. Finally, broker's commissions on low-priced stocks usually represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks. As a result, our shareholders will pay transaction costs that are a higher percentage of their total share value than if our share price were substantially higher. Risk Factors Associated with Our Core Technologies, Speech Products and Speech Business We have a limited Speech Product offering and many of our key technologies are still in the product development stage. Presently, there are a limited number of commercially available Speech Products incorporating our Core Technologies. For Fonix to be ultimately successful, sales from these Speech Products must be substantially greater. An additional element of our business strategy is to achieve revenues through strategic alliances, co-development arrangements, and license arrangements with third parties. For example, we have entered into licensing and joint-marketing agreements with Sony, Electronic Arts, Intel, Microsoft, HP, Panasonic, Epson, and others. These agreements provide for joint marketing and application development for end-users or customers. To date, these agreements have not produced significant revenues. There can be no assurance that these collaboration agreements will produce license or other agreements which will generate significant revenues for us. 21 The market for many of our Core Technologies and Speech Products is largely unproven and may never develop sufficiently to allow us to capitalize on our Core Technology and Speech Products. The market for speech-enabled Speech Products is rapidly evolving. Additionally, our Speech Products are new and, in many instances, represent a significant departure from technologies which already have found a degree of acceptance in the speech-enabled technologies marketplace. Our financial performance will depend, in part, on the future development, growth and ultimate size of the market for speech-enabled applications and Speech Products generally, and applications and products incorporating our Speech Products. If the potential users of speech-enabled software in general and our products in particular do not perceive appropriate benefits, or if speech-enabled software platforms do not achieve commercial acceptance, our business could be harmed or even fail. The Speech Products which incorporate our Core Technologies will be competing with more conventional means of information processing such as data entry, access by keyboard, mouse or touch-tone telephone. We believe that there is a substantial potential market for applications and products incorporating advanced speech-enabled technologies. Nevertheless, such a market for our Speech Products may never develop to the point that profitable operations can be achieved or sustained. Our Speech Products may not achieve widespread acceptance by businesses or telecommunications carriers, which could limit our ability to grow our business. Our ability to increase revenue in the future depends on the acceptance of speech-enabling products and applications by both our customers and end users. The adoption and integration of speech-enabling products and applications could be hindered by the perceived costs of these new products and applications, as well as the reluctance of enterprises that have invested substantial resources in existing applications to replace their current systems with these new products and applications. Accordingly, in order to achieve commercial acceptance, we will have to educate prospective customers, including large, established companies, about the uses and benefits of speech-enabling products and applications in general and our Speech Products in particular. If these efforts fail, or if speech-enabling products and technology platforms do not achieve commercial acceptance, our business will not develop or may subsequently fail. Continued development of the market for our Speech Products also will depend upon the following factors over which we have little or no control: • widespread deployment of speech-enabling applications by third parties, which is driven by consumer demand for services having a voice user interface; • demand for new uses and applications of speech-enabling technology, including adoption of speech-enabled interfaces by companies that operate web sites; • adoption of industry standards for speech-enabling and related technologies; and • continuing improvements in hardware technology that may reduce the costs of speech-enabling technology solutions. In many cases, the delivery of our Speech Products to end users is dependent upon third-party integration and may be subject to delays and cancellations that are beyond our control. Generally, we are pursuing third-party integration of our Speech Products into mass market, general business, personal electronics products, and computing solutions. Thus, lead time to revenue recognition will be longer than software products directly released into consumer channels. Purchase of our Speech Products often requires a significant expenditure by a customer. Accordingly, the decision to purchase our Speech Products typically requires significant pre-purchase evaluation. We spend significant time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our Speech Products. During this evaluation period, we may expend substantial sales, marketing and management resources. 22 Further, our Speech Products sold and integrated into customer applications and products are subject to both customer production schedules and customer success in marketing their own products and generating product sales. Our revenues are thus subject to delays and possible cancellation resulting from customer integration risks and delays. In cases where our contract with our customers specifies milestones or acceptance criteria, we may not be able to recognize license or services revenue until these conditions are met. We have in the past and may in the future experience unexpected delays in recognizing revenue. Consequently, the length of our sales and implementation cycles and the varying order amounts for our Speech Products make it difficult to predict the quarter in which revenue recognition may occur and may cause license and services revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. These factors could cause our stock price to be volatile or to decline. Our Speech Products can have a long sales cycle and, as a result, our quarterly operating results and our stock price may fluctuate. The sales cycles for our Speech Products are generally six to twelve months but may be shorter or longer depending on the size and complexity of the order, the amount of services to be provided and whether the sale is made directly by us or indirectly through an OEM, VAR, or systems integrator. The length of the sales cycles could adversely impact our operating results. Our failure to respond to rapid change in the speech-enabled technologies market could cause us to lose revenue and harm our business. Our success will depend substantially upon our ability to enhance our existing Speech Products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new technologies, Speech Products and features that meet changing end-user requirements and incorporate technological advancements. If we are unable to develop new Speech Products and enhanced functionalities or technologies to adapt to these changes, or if we cannot offset a decline in revenue from existing Speech Products with sales of new Speech Products, our business will suffer. Commercial acceptance of our Speech Products will depend, among other things, on: • the ability of our Speech Products to meet and adapt to the needs of our target markets; • the performance and price of our Speech Products and our competitors' products; and • our ability to deliver customer services directly and through our resellers, VARs and OEM partners. In order to increase our international sales, we must increase the foreign language capacities of our Speech Products. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to grow our revenue and execute our business strategy. We intend to expand our international sales, which requires a significant investment to create and refine different language models for each particular language or dialect. These language models are required to create versions of products that allow end users to speak the local language or dialect and be understood. If we fail to develop additional foreign language capacity of our Speech Products, our ability to benefit from international market opportunities and to grow our business will be limited. 23 Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property or if our technologies are found to infringe the intellectual property of a third party. Dependence on proprietary technology Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology. Certain elements of our Core Technologies are the subject of seven patents issued and allowed by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and 10 other patent applications which are pending. In addition to our patents, we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Such means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate because such laws provide only limited protection. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to duplicate aspects of our technologies or the current or future products or technologies of our business units or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary rights is difficult, and some international laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation periodically may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Risks of our infringement upon the technology of unrelated parties or entities We are not aware and do not believe that any of our technologies or products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. Nevertheless, third parties may claim infringement with respect to our current or future technologies or products or products manufactured by others and incorporating our technologies. We expect that developers of speech-enabled technologies increasingly will be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the industry grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Responding to any such claims, whether or not they are found to have merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause development delays, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. Royalty or license agreements may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, infringement claims could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Additional Risk Factors Associated with the Acquisition of LTEL Holdings Corporation On February 24, 2004, we acquired all of the capital stock of LTEL Holdings Corporation, a privately held Delaware corporation ("LTEL"). LTEL has two wholly owned operating subsidiaries, LecStar Telecom, Inc., an Atlanta-based CLEC, and LecStar DataNet, Inc., a provider of internet services to business and residential customers (collectively, "LecStar"). More information about the purchase of LecStar can be found in the "Business" Section. There are certain risks associated with the acquisition of LecStar which include, but are not limited to, the following risks. TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION The following summary of regulatory developments and legislation does not purport to describe all present and proposed federal, state and local regulations and legislation affecting the telecommunications industry or the Company. Other existing federal and state legislation and regulations are currently the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals, which could change, in varying degrees, the manner in which this industry operates. Neither the outcome of these proceedings, nor their impact upon the telecommunications industry or the Company, can be predicted at this time Overview Our telecommunications operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, and orders affecting the rates, terms, and conditions of certain of our service offerings, our costs and other aspects of our operations, including our relations with other service providers. Regulation varies in each jurisdiction and may change in response to judicial proceedings, legislative and administrative proposals, government policies, competition and technological developments. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes or proceedings may have on our business or results of operations, and we cannot guarantee that regulatory authorities will not raise material issues regarding our compliance with applicable regulations. 24 Congressional leaders have advanced draft versions of bills to modify, and partially replace the 1996 Telecommunications Act, which could have a material adverse impact on our telecommunications business and operations. The United Stated House of Representatives has drafted proposed legislation known as the Broadband Internet Transmission Services bill. This bill, which would substantially limit LecStar’s access to broadband services for resale to its customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The likelihood of passage of this bill or similar legislation cannot be determined. The FCC decision to substantially limit ILEC obligations to provide access to unbundled network elements (UNEs) at cost-based rates has had a material effect on the way we conduct our business and operations and may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Access to wholesale network elements will be at prices that are above cost-based rates and will have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The 1996 Telecommunications Act (the “1996 Act”)and FCC regulations adopted under the 1996 Act impose additional duties on incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”), including the duty to provide access on an unbundled basis to individual network elements on non-discriminatory terms and cost-based rates; to allow competitors to interconnect with their networks in a nondiscriminatory manner at any technically feasible point on their networks; to permit collocation of competitors' equipment at the ILECs premises; and to offer retail services at wholesale rates to competitive local exchange carriers (“CLECs”) for resale. Access to ILECs' unbundled network elements at cost-based rates is critical to LecStar's business. Historically, LecStar’s local telecommunications services predominantly have been provided through the use of combinations of unbundled network elements, and it is the availability of cost-based rates for these elements that has enabled LecStar to price its local telecommunications services competitively. However, effective March 11, 2006, the ILECs may provide the unbundled network elements upon which LecStar has relied at significantly higher, non-cost-based rates for new services. Local Switching: The FCC eliminated an ILEC’s obligation to provide local switching, and the unbundled network element platform ”UNE-P” in particular, upon which we have historically relied at favorable, cost-based rates. The FCC adopted a twelve-month transition plan for CLECs to transition away from the unbundled network element platform, which ended on March 10, 2006. The state Public Service Commissions in the states in which LecStar operates have considered this transition period, and Georgia has ruled that BellSouth has the obligation to continue to provide unbundled network elements under Section 271 of the 1996 Act (“271 UNEs”). These 271 UNEs are expected to be available to LecStar at above cost-based rates, but below the commercial agreement rates offered to other carriers. LecStar is serving its existing and new customers by using a combination of BellSouth Total Service Resale (a discount off of BellSouth retail rates for existing products which in most instances represents a substantially higher wholesale cost), BellSouth 271 UNEs, other wholesale switched access service providers, or by providing its own switched access services. There can be no guarantee that LecStar will be able to continue to obtain access to wholesale network elements, and any failure to obtain such access could result in a material adverse impact on LecStar’s operations and profitability. Local Loops and Transport: The FCC also made impairment findings and placed certain limitations with respect to local loops and dedicated interoffice transport. The FCC established 10 DS1s and 12 DS3s as the maximum transport a carrier can purchase from the ILEC per route. Furthermore, for local loops, the FCC concluded that CLECs are impaired without access to (1) DS1-capacity loops except in any building within the service area of a wire center containing 60,000 or more business lines and four or more fiber-based collocators; and (2) DS3-capacity loops except in any building within the service area of a wire center containing 38,000 or more business lines and four or more fiber-based collocations. The FCC determined that CLECs are not impaired without access to dark fiber loops in any instance. For dedicated transport, the FCC found that CLECs are impaired without access to (1) DS1 transport except on routes connecting a pair of wire centers where both wire centers contain at least four fiber-based collocators or at least 38,000 business lines; and (2) DS3 or dark fiber transport except on routes connecting a pair of wire centers where both wire centers contain at least three fiber-based collocators or at least 24,000 business lines. The FCC concluded that CLECs are not impaired without access to entrance facilities connecting an ILEC's network with a CLEC's network in any instance. For both local loops and dedicated transport, the FCC adopted a twelve-month transition plan for CLECs to transition away from the use of DS1 and DS3 loops and dedicated transport where there is no impairment, and an eighteen-month transition plan to transition away from dark fiber. 25 In light of the FCC’s findings and limitations, LecStar will be required to serve its new loops and meet its transport requirements by using BellSouth Special Access circuits (at substantially higher wholesale rates) or other wholesale transport providers, to the extent that any acceptable alternatives are available. There can be no guarantee that LecStar will be able to profitably serve its customers using the BellSouth circuits or to locate alternate transport providers, which could result in a material adverse impact on LecStar’s operations and profitability. Additionally, because transport is a critical component required for offering local switching, the inability to locate alternative transport providers could have a material adverse impact on LecStar’s alternative option of providing switched access services. State actions to modify underlying TELRIC or cost based rates could have a material adverse impact on LecStar’s planned business. On February 21, 2006, the Georgia Public Service Commission (“GPSC”) voted on remand from the United States Circuit Court of Appeals of a BellSouth appeal related to the reduction of wholesale UNE rates for all carriers operating in the state. The GPSC was ordered to develop new rates based on a higher cost of capital in wholesale rates for the elements that CLECs purchase from ILECs. The court also ordered the GPSC to “make BellSouth whole” as far back as June 2003. The GPSC ordered that after the Georgia re-rate differences are calculated and back-billed to LecStar, the parties may petition the PSC for review of the interconnection agreement terms and conditions to ensure that such back-billing is permitted in the agreement. If permitted, this would represent a substantial new obligation of LecStar to BellSouth. The total potential obligation to BellSouth cannot accurately be predicted at this time. On January 1, 2003, LecStar adopted the billing agreement of Momentum Communications which included very favorable North Carolina rates. LecStar utilized these rates to enter North Carolina and compete in residential markets not traditionally served by other carriers. On October 28, 2005, LecStar received a bill from BellSouth, back- billing LecStar at a higher rate based upon the September 2002 amendment to the contract signed by Momentum Communications for the period from the execution of its interconnection agreement to the present. While LecStar continues to dispute these charges, they represent a new unanticipated obligation of approximately $299,000 as of December 2005 to BellSouth if LecStar is unsuccessful in its efforts to disputes these charges. The unavailability of dedicated transport and other facilities at cost based rates could have a material adverse impact on our planned business operations. As we rely on competitive wholesale networks to the extent we are able to move off of the BellSouth infrastructure, the lack of availability of these dedicated transport facilities, dark fiber and entrance facilities under the FCC's rules at cost-based rates may adversely impact us if our wholesale providers seek to pass along the higher costs associated with buying tariffed offerings from BellSouth. We could be forced to use other means to effect this deployment, including the use of facilities purchased from the ILECs at higher tariffed special access rates. As a result, our cost of service could rise dramatically and our future plans for a service rollout for use of our own network facilities could be delayed substantially or derailed entirely. The reduced availability of high capacity loops and transport at cost based rates coupled with service disruptions and one-time charges associated with conversions of customers to competitive facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business. In anticipation of the recent developments regarding the FCC's unbundling rules, we installed a soft-switch and related collocation equipment in Georgia and North Carolina, using a combination of our own switching capacity and unbundled loop and dedicated interoffice transport facilities purchased from BellSouth and other providers. Reviews of the economic viability of this strategy resulted in a decision to delay our deployment of UNE-L services and to seek the use of competitive network facilities integrated with our switch for provision of VoIP through Fonix Telecom. We have established six collocations and will review establishing additional collocations as conditions warrant. 26 We believe the loss of the availability of high capacity circuits such as DS1 and DS3 loops and transport at cost-based rates will result in materially higher prices on loops that we must purchase from either the ILECs or a competitive access provider. In April 2005, BellSouth issued its list of wire centers that are removed from the available list for transport and high capacity loops. The status of these wire centers will remain the focus of review by state regulators and is likely to be revised during the change of law cases underway before all state PSCs. We are currently evaluating the number of loops that will become unavailable at cost-based rates or the effect upon our alternative access plans, as well as our plans to mitigate these impacts. Our inability to negotiate new interconnection agreements, or extensions or replacements of existing interconnection agreements, on acceptable terms and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. We have agreements for the interconnection of our networks with the networks of BellSouth and Sprint and are in negotiations with AllTel covering each market in which we serve customers. Our BellSouth interconnection agreement is the most significant agreement of this type. The term of the BellSouth agreement will expire on March 20, 2006. Upon expiration, the language in our current agreement states that LecStar will operate on BellSouth’s Standard Agreement. We may not be able to successfully negotiate amendments to existing agreements, negotiate new interconnection agreements, renew our existing interconnection agreements, opt into new agreements, or successfully arbitrate replacement agreements for interconnection on terms and conditions acceptable to us prior to the expiration of our current agreement. Our inability to do so could adversely affect our existing operations and opportunities to grow LecStar’s business in existing and new markets. If a new agreement cannot be reached in negotiations, LecStar can file an arbitration proceeding against BellSouth. Neither the outcome of such arbitrations nor their impact on LecStar can be predicted at this time. There can be no assurances that a negotiated commercial agreement or a similar agreement between BellSouth and LecStar regarding the use of ILEC switching can be reached. The FCC has encouraged ILECs and CLECs to engage in commercial negotiations to provide access to ILEC facilities that may no longer be available as unbundled network elements as a result of the withdrawal of unbundling obligations, including the unbundled network element platform. While we have engaged in general discussions with BellSouth, and have reviewed the agreements between BellSouth and certain other CLECs filed to date, we have been unable to reach any agreement, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to reach any agreement in the future. Fonix Telecom has signed an interconnection agreement and a commercial agreement to provide access to ILEC switching for new customers, but the market viability of products created on this new platform has not been proven. On September 15, 2005, Fonix Telecom, a new CLEC certified to offer local and long distance services in Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina and Florida, signed a new interconnection agreement and commercial agreement with BellSouth for these states. The rates for services under the new commercial agreement are substantially higher for both monthly recurring and usage wholesale components than the UNE-P platform. The market viability of products created on this platform has not been proven and may result in marketing to more targeted market segments in the future. If the market does accept these new products, they are likely to generate a lower gross margin than the same or similar products delivered over the UNE-P platform, which would have an adverse impact on LecStar’s business. There can be no assurances that the recent Georgia public Service Commission decision establishing 271 Unbundled Network Element rates in Georgia will be sustained under appeal. On March 8, 2006 the Georgia PSC issued an order that established rates for certain unbundled network elements. These unbundled network elements include local switching at rates above cost-based rates, but below the commercial agreement rates offered to most other carriers. To the extend that LecStar has a competitive advantage due to its access to 271 rates in Georgia, these rates are subject to a petition for reconsideration filed by BellSouth. The loss of these rates would have a material adverse impact on LecStar’s profitability. The outcome of the petition for reconsideration cannot reasonably be predicted at this time. 27 FCC inter-carrier compensation rule changes could have a material adverse impact on our access revenues. As a local exchange provider, we bill long distance providers' access charges for the origination and termination of long distance providers' long distance calls. Our local exchange business benefits from the receipt of intrastate and interstate long distance traffic. As an entity that collects access charges, we must properly track and record the jurisdiction of our communications traffic and collect access charges accordingly. The result of any changes to the existing regulatory scheme for access charges or a determination that we have been improperly collecting access revenues could have a material adverse effect on Lecstar’s and Fonix Telecom’s business. The FCC has indicated that its existing carrier compensation rules constitute transitional regimes that are not permanent and that they will be replaced in the near future with a new interstate, inter-carrier compensation regime based on bill-and-keep or another alternative. We cannot predict the impact that any such changes may have on LecStar’s and Fonix Telecom’s business. If our collection procedures prove to be insufficient or if a taxing or regulatory authority determines that our remittances are inadequate, we could be required to make additional payments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. LecStar and Fonix Telecom are subject to numerous local, state and federal taxes and regulatory fees, including but not limited to a 3% federal excise tax on communications service, FCC regulatory fees and public utility commission regulatory fees. LecStar and Fonix Telecom have procedures in place to ensure that they properly collect taxes and fees from their customers. If LecStar’s and Fonix Telecom’s collection procedures prove to be insufficient or if a taxing or regulatory authority determines that their remittances were inadequate, they could be required to make additional payments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business. LecStar and Fonix Telecom have routinely collected excise taxes pursuant to various state and federal laws and regulations. In some instances, they have not fully remitted these taxes to the relevant taxing authority and may be subject to their claims for penalties and interest. They have accrued these amounts and their estimate of penalties and interest is set forth in our consolidated financial statements. On July 2, 2004, the Internal Revenue Service issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking asking for public comment on expanding the current 3% excise tax to new communications services, such as VoIP and other IP-based services, applications, and technologies, to reflect changes in technology. The comment cycle ended September 30, 2004. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding on LecStar’s and Fonix Telecom’s business. Should BellSouth prevail in its state PSC cases focused on the change of law clause of its interconnection agreements, that outcome could result in a materially adverse impact to LecStar. The Telecommunications Act of 1934 maintains the authority of individual states to impose their own regulation of rates, terms and conditions of intrastate services, so long as such regulation is not inconsistent with the requirements of federal law. Because LecStar provides communications services that originate and terminate within individual states, including both local service and in-state long distance toll calls, LecStar is subject to the jurisdiction of PSCs and other regulators in nine states: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee. Some states are considering enactment of legislation that would deregulate ILECs broadband facilities and services. If such legislation became law, it could prevent state regulators from requiring that ILECs allow competitive carriers to interconnect with critical facilities used to provide broadband services on reasonable terms. 28 Following the issuance of the FCC’s ruling in February 2005, LecStar and other CLECs sought or supported motions for emergency relief in each of the nine states in which LecStar does business. On March 1, 2005, the Georgia PSC issued an order that requires BellSouth to pursue the change of law clause in the interconnection agreements with its competitors, including LecStar. This order and others like it in other states permit LecStar to continue to order unbundled network elements until LecStar’s interconnection agreement is modified. On March 11, 2005, BellSouth challenged the Georgia PSC in an action before the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The District Court ruled in favor of BellSouth. LecStar and other CLECs appealed this ruling to United Stated Circuit Court of Appeals. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the lower court’s ruling. No further action is anticipated. On March 14, 2005, BellSouth sent, via email, a change of law notification to LecStar requesting that the 90-day change of law negotiation period begin. These negotiations are pending the resolution of the generic change of law cases before each state PSC, assisting the parties with interpretation of the issues between LecStar and the ILEC related to implementation of the FCC’s order in the context of state and federal law. These hearings are important because they establish a number of critical issues with material impacts on LecStar including whether or not the PSCs have authority to establish rates for unbundled elements under Section 271 of the 1996 Act. On March 8, 2006, Georgia, the largest state of operations for LecStar, ruled in favor of establishing a rate for access to unbundled network elements at a rate below the commercial agreement rate offered to other carriers. BellSouth is likely to appeal this decision and the outcome of the appeal cannot be determined at this time. Several other states have ruled that they did not have the authority to set such a rate, while several states such as Tennessee, Kentucky and Mississippi have not yet decided the issue. The ultimate outcome and impacts on operations and profitability of LecStar as a result of the various state rulings and any associated appeals cannot currently be predicted. Failure to reach a negotiated settlement with BellSouth on disputed payables over the past three years could result in a materially adverse impact on our business. BellSouth and LecStar have been engaged in settlement discussions that would create a global settlement to all disputed payables and establish a credit to the company as well as a payment schedule for unpaid balances. Failure to reach this agreement could result in a materially adverse impact on our business and would require lengthy and expensive arbitration in nine states with no certainty of the outcome of any of these proceedings, or the terms under which each state might offer BellSouth for repayment of the arbitrated settlement. Change of control of BellSouth in its proposed merger with AT&T and the resulting consolidation of operational and regulatory staff and systems to AT&T could have a material adverse impact on our business. The proposed AT&T acquisition of BellSouth puts all significant negotiations with BellSouth in doubt of proceeding rapidly or being halted entirely during the acquisition process. Once the acquisition is complete, if not earlier, the new AT&T may be more difficult to negotiate with and the new management team could reverse terms and conditions that BellSouth may have agreed to previously. In addition, consolidation of systems and personnel may require both LecStar and Fonix Telecom to re-engineer its processes to interface with new electronic ordering systems and procedures, requiring new investment and training of personnel. LecStar and Fonix Telecom’s continued success depends on their ability to manage and expand operations effectively. LecStar and Fonix Telecom’s ability to manage and expand their telecommunicationsoperations effectively will depend on a variety of factors, including their ability to: offer high-quality, reliable services to their customers at reasonable costs; install and operate telecommunications equipment; acquire necessary equipment, software and facilities; scale operations; evaluate markets; monitor operations; control costs; maintain effective quality controls; hire, train and retain qualified personnel; enhance operating and accounting systems; address operating challenges; adapt to market and regulatory developments; and obtain and maintain required governmental authorizations. For them to succeed, they must achieve these objectives in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis. If they do not achieve these objectives, they may not be able to compete in our existing markets or expand into new markets. A failure to achieve one or more of these objectives could have a material adverse effect on LecStar and Fonix Telecom’s telecommunicationsoperations and business. In addition, LecStar has grown rapidly since its inception and we expect it to continue to grow by expanding its product offerings. We expect LecStar’s growth to place a strain on operational, human and financial resources, particularly if LecStar and/or Fonix Telecom grow through acquisitions. Their ability to manage operations and expansion effectively depends on the continued development of plans, systems and controls for their operational, financial and management needs. There can be no assurance that LecStar and/or Fonix Telecom will be able to satisfy these requirements or otherwise manage their operations and growth effectively. A failure to satisfy these requirements could have a material adverse effect on their financial condition and ability to fully implement their growth and operating plans. 29 A failure to effectively manage processes and systems for ordering, provisioning and billing, or the failure of third parties to deliver these services on a timely and accurate basis, could have a material adverse effect on the ability of LecStar and Fonix Telecom to retain their existing customers or to attract and retain new customers. LecStar and Fonix Telecom have processes and procedures and are working with external vendors, including the ILECs, to implement customer orders for services, the provisioning, installation and delivery of services, and monthly billing for those services. LecStar and Fonix Telecom’s inability to effectively manage processes and systems for these service elements or the failure of the vendors serving ILECs to deliver ordering, provisioning and billing services on a timely and accurate basis could have a material adverse effect on their ability to retain our existing customers or attract and retain new customers. System disruptions could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause LecStar and Fonix Telecom to lose customers. LecStar and Fonix Telecom’s success depends on providing reliable service. Although LecStar and Fonix Telecom have designed customer service system to minimize the possibility of service disruptions or other outages, their service may be disrupted by problems on their system, such as malfunctions in their software or other facilities, and by problems with a competitor's system, such as physical damage to telephone lines or power surges and outages. Any disruption in networks could cause LecStar and Fonix Telecom to lose customers and incur additional expenses. LecStar and Fonix Telecom are dependent on third parties for acquiring customers and providing access to their networks for providing service to our customers. LecStar and Fonix Telecom have arrangements with numerous independent parties to market their services to potential customers. LecStar and Fonix Telecom are highly dependent on these relationships for their success. LecStar and Fonix Telecom’s agreements with utility companies provide us the exclusive right to provide services to their customers; however, these agreements do contain termination provisions. If any of these relations were to terminate, it could result in a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, and results of operations. LecStar and Fonix Telecom’s agreements with other independent third parties for the acquisition of customers are non-exclusive. These entities are not under any obligation to continue to acquire customers for LecStar and Fonix Telecom. LecStar and Fonix Telecom are dependent on local exchange carriers for co-location of equipment space, which may not be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner. As explained in detail above, they are dependent on unbundled network elements from local exchange carriers and additional services from other telecommunication providers. They are also dependent on the efficient and smooth interface between their information systems and those of the local exchange carriers for certain processing functions and customer support. If their access to these systems or network elements were to be disrupted, it could cause a material adverse impact on their business. We may not be able to retain customers. A significant portion of LecStar and Fonix Telecom’s customers, especially residential customers, are not subject to any contractual obligations to continue to use LecStar and Fonix Telecom’s telecommunication services. These customers may switch telecommunication service providers at will. Furthermore, customers who have executed a contract with LecStar and Fonix Telecom may terminate if LecStar and Fonix Telecom are not able to provide acceptable quality of telecommunication service. The loss of any significant number of customers would adversely affect their results of operations and financial condition. Adverse regulatory rulings may also result in increased retail prices for both new and existing customers and increased customer churn rates. LecStar’s existing method of providing service is susceptible to development of new technologies by competitors. 30 There exist other technologies that provide greater bandwidth than LecStar’s methods of transmission and may be used instead of LecStar’s services. Significant penetration of these alternative technologies into LecStar’s target market may reduce the demand for LecStar’s services and harm its business. Existing alternative technologies include: • Digital Subscriber Line Technology. Digital subscriber line technology was developed to produce higher data transfer rates over the existing copper-based telephone network. The data transfer rates for digital subscriber lines are reported to range between 144,000 bits of data per second and six million bits of data per second. • Cable Modems. Cable modems can allow users to send and receive data using cable television distribution systems. According to industry sources, cable modem users typically experience download speeds of 1.5 million bits of data per second. • Wireless Technologies. Wireless technologies, such as satellite and microwave communications systems can provide high-speed data communications. Not only are wireless technologies commercially deployed, there are significant tests underway to increase the bandwidth and availability of wireless technologies. • Integrated Serviced Digital Networks. Integrated services digital networks have been offered by the incumbent local telephone companies over the existing copper-based telephone network for some time. These services offer data transfer speeds of 128,000 bits of data per second. • Voice Over Internet Protocol. Voice over internet protocol usually permits broadband users to place and receive local and long distance calls using the Internet. When compared to traditional wireline services, VOIP is usually less expensive. • Power Line Carrier. Providing telecommunication service using electrical utilities' infrastructure has been successfully deployed in Europe for a number of years; however, in the United States this technology has experienced limited commercial deployment to date. Several entities are researching this technology and have announced plans to launch testing its commercial viability. There may be additional unknown risks, which could have a negative effect on our business. The risks and uncertainties described in this section are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the foregoing risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 