ITEM 1A. Risk factorsThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered before making an investment decision relating to our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operationsWe depend on independent foundries to supply silicon wafers for many of our products. These foundries include Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited ("Fujitsu") in Japan, which supplies the majority of our wafers. We negotiate wafer volumes, prices and other terms with our foundry partners and their respective affiliates on a periodic basis typically resulting in short-term agreements which do not ensure long-term supply or allocation commitments. We rely on our foundry partners to produce 11Table of Contentswafers with competitive performance attributes. Should the foundries that supply our wafers experience manufacturing problems, including unacceptable yields, delays in the realization of the requisite process technologies, or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies, our operating results could be adversely affected. Should the foundries not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or continue to manufacture a product for the full life of the product, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, weak economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and cause them to limit or discontinue their business operations, resulting in their inability to meet their commitments to us and shortages of supply, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. A disruption of our foundry partners' operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political or labor unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, or any other reason, could disrupt our wafer supply and could adversely affect our operating results.If we fail to maintain our foundry relationships or are required to change foundries, we will incur significant costs and manufacturing delays. The success of certain of our next generation products is dependent upon our ability to successfully partner with Fujitsu and other foundry partners, including Seiko Epson Corporation in Japan, United Microelectronics Corporation in Taiwan, GLOBALFOUNDRIES in Singapore, and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. (TSMC) in South Korea. If for any reason our foundry partners do not provide their facilities and support for our development efforts, we may be unable to effectively develop new products in a timely manner. Establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships require the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. If we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our operating results. Should a change in foundry relationship be required, we may be unsuccessful in establishing new foundry relationships for our current or next generation products, or may incur substantial cost and or manufacturing delays until we form and ramp relationships and migrate products, each of which could adversely affect our operating results.In order to secure new or additional wafer supply, we may from time to time consider various financial arrangements including equity investments, advance purchase payments, loans, or similar arrangements with independent wafer manufacturers in exchange for committed wafer capacity or other support. To the extent that we pursue any such additional financing arrangements, additional debt or equity financing may be required. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available when needed or, if available, will be on favorable terms. Any future equity financing will decrease existing stockholders' equity percentage ownership resulting in dilution.We depend on distributors, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. We depend on our distributors to sell our products to end customers, complete order fulfillment and maintain sufficient inventory of our products. Our distributors also provide technical support and other value-added services to our end customers. Resale of product through distributors accounted for 55% of our revenue in 2012, with two distributors accounting for 47% of our revenue in 2012. We expect our distributors to generate a significant portion of our revenue in the future. Any adverse change to our relationship with our distributors or a failure by one or more of our distributors to perform its obligations to us could have a material impact on our business. In addition, a significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products.The financial health of our distributors is important to our success. Economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of one or more of our distributors. This could result in the inability of distributors to finance the purchase of our products or cause the distributors to delay payment of their obligation to us and increase our credit risk. If the financial health of our distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted.In addition, our distribution channels recently have experienced consolidation due to merger and acquisition activity. Consolidation may result in our distributors allocating fewer resources to the distribution and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our financial results.We depend on the timeliness and accuracy of resale reports from our distributors; late or inaccurate resale reports could have a detrimental effect on our ability to properly recognize revenue and our ability to predict future sales.12Table of ContentsA continued downturn in the Communications end market could cause a further reduction in demand for our products and limit our ability to maintain revenue levels and operating results.Historically, the largest percentage of our revenue has been derived from customers participating in the Communications end market. In addition, sales to two large China-based telecommunication equipment providers accounted for 14% of our revenue in 2012. This is primarily due to strength in the wireless portion of the Communications end market. In the past, including in our most recent fiscal periods, a general weakening in demand for programmable logic products from customers in the Communications end market has adversely affected our revenue. In addition, telecommunication equipment providers are building network infrastructure for which we compete for product sales. Any deterioration in the Communications end market or our end customers' reduction in spending to support this end market could lead to a reduction in demand for our products which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.General economic conditions and deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.Adverse economic conditions may negatively affect customer demand for our products and services and result in postponed or decreased spending amid concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. Recent events have shown that the financial conditions of sovereign nations, particularly in Europe, are of continuing concern as the sovereign debt crisis remains unresolved. These weak global economic conditions resulted in reduced end customer demand and had a negative impact on our results of operations during fiscal 2012. If weak economic conditions persist or worsen, our business could be harmed due to customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result in production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables, require additional restructuring actions, and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.The semiconductor industry routinely experiences cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. Our revenue and gross margin can fluctuate significantly due to downturns in the semiconductor industry. These downturns can be severe and prolonged and can result in price erosion and weaker demand for our products. Weaker demand for our products resulting from general economic conditions affecting the end markets we serve or the semiconductor industry specifically and reduced spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. The dynamics of the markets in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results.The Consumer end market is cyclical, and our failure to accurately predict the frequency, duration, timing and severity of these cycles could adversely affect our financial condition and results.Revenue from the Consumer end market accounted for 15% of our revenue in fiscal 2012 and has increased as a percentage of our revenues over the past several years. Revenue from the Consumer end market consists primarily of revenue from our products designed and used in a broad range of products including smart handheld devices, flat panel displays, digital cameras and camcorders, gaming consoles, and set-top boxes. This market is characterized by rapidly changing requirements and products. Our success in this market will depend principally on our ability to:•meet the market windows for consumer products;•predict technology and market trends;•develop products on a timely basis; and•avoid cancellations or delay of products. Our inability to accomplish any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, because of rapid changes in this market, which may affect demand for our products, the revenue derived from sales in this market may vary significantly over time adversely affecting our financial results.13Table of ContentsOur success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The programmable logic market is characterized by rapid technology and product evolution on advanced technologies. Our competitive position and success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance addressing the needs of the markets we serve. These new products typically are more technologically complex than their predecessors.The success of new product introductions depends upon numerous factors, including:•timely completion and introduction of new product designs;•ability to generate new design opportunities and design wins;•availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products;•ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies;•achieving acceptable yields;•ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors;•ability to obtain advanced packaging;•availability of supporting software design tools;•utilization of predefined IP logic;•customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and•market acceptance of our customers' products.Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to acceptable cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining acceptable margins. To the extent such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Foreign sales account for the majority of our revenue and we have significant international operations exposing us to various economic, regulatory, political, and business risks which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, and results of operations. We derive the majority of our revenue from sales outside of the United States. Accordingly, if we experience a decline in foreign sales, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our foreign sales are subject to numerous risks, including:•changes in local economic conditions;•currency exchange rate volatility;•governmental stimulus packages, controls and trade restrictions;•export license requirements, foreign trade compliance matters, and restrictions on the use of technology;•political instability, war, terrorism or pandemic disease;•changes in tax rates, tariffs or freight rates;•reduced protection for intellectual property rights;•longer receivable collection periods;•natural or man-made disasters in the countries where we sell our products;•interruptions in transportation;•interruptions in the global communication infrastructure; and•labor regulations.Any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.We have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, an operational center in the Philippines, and research and development sites in China, India and the Philippines. Since our restructuring, our international operations have grown as we relocated certain operational, design, and administrative 14Table of Contentsfunctions outside the United States. In addition, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries, have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the United States, and rely upon an international service provider for inventory management, order fulfillment, and direct sales logistics. These and other integral business activities outside of the United States are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments including trade barriers, economic sanctions, environmental regulations, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, anti-corruption laws, domestic and foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for IP, longer receivable collection periods, disruptions or delays in production or shipments, and instability or fluctuations in exchange rates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political instability, terrorist activity, U.S. or other military actions, or economic crises in countries where our main wafer suppliers, end customers, contract manufacturers, and logistics providers are located. Our legal organizational structure could result in unanticipated unfavorable tax or other consequences which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In 2011 and 2012, we implemented a global tax structure to more effectively align our corporate structure business operations including responsibility for sales and purchasing activities. We created new and realigned existing legal entities, completed intercompany sales of rights to intellectual property, inventory and fixed assets across different tax jurisdictions, and implemented cost-sharing and intellectual property licensing and royalty agreements between our legal entities. We currently operate legal entities in countries where we conduct supply-chain management, design, and sales operations around the world. In some countries, we maintain multiple entities for tax or other purposes. Changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to taxation in Singapore, the United States and other countries. Future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws. We compute our effective tax rate using actual jurisdictional profits and losses. Changes in the jurisdictional mix of profits and losses may cause fluctuations in the effective tax rate. Adverse changes in tax rates, our tax assets, and tax liabilities could negatively affect our results in the future.We cannot give any assurance as to what taxes we pay or the ability to estimate our future effective tax rate because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. The U.S. government has proposed tax policy changes with respect to the taxation of non-U.S. operations. As a result, our actual effective tax rate or taxes paid may vary materially from our expectations. Changes in tax laws, regulations and related interpretations in the countries in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results.A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins.A number of factors, including yield, wafer pricing, cost of packaging raw materials, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies can cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on turns within the same quarter.Our current inventory levels are higher than historical norms due to our decisions to reduce direct material cost and enable timely responsiveness to surges in demand. In the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental excess and obsolescence costs. In addition, future product cost reductions could impact our inventory valuation, which could adversely affect our operating results.15Table of ContentsWe are dependent on independent contractors for most of our assembly, test, and logistics services, and disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.We are dependent on subcontractors to assemble, test and ship our products with acceptable quality and yield levels. Certain problems could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands, including: prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery; disruption in assembly, test or shipping services; delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products; transitions to new service providers; or any other circumstances that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply. Economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of our subcontractors and result in their inability to meet their commitments to us. These factors could result in product shortages, quality assurance problems, reduced revenue and/or increased costs which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining assembled and tested products and in securing assembly and test capacity commitments from our suppliers. We currently anticipate that our assembly and test capacity commitments are adequate; however, these existing commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. We negotiate assembly and test prices and capacity commitments from our contractors on a periodic basis. If any of our assembly or test contractors reduced their capacity commitment or increased their prices, and we cannot find alternative sources, our operating results could be adversely affected.Increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. If greater demand for wafers is not offset by increased foundry capacity, if market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or assembly materials ceases or suspends operations or otherwise experiences a disruption to its operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become constrained. Worldwide manufacturing capacity for silicon wafers is relatively limited and inelastic. Wafer shortages could result in wafer price increases or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, which could decrease our ability to meet customer product demands in a timely manner. If any of our current or future foundry partners or assembly and test subcontractors significantly increases the costs of wafers or other materials or interrupts or reduces our supply, including for reasons outside of their control, or if any of our relationships with our partner suppliers is terminated, our operating results could be adversely affected.Our future revenue is dependent on customer and market acceptance of our programmable logic solutions. We operate in a dynamic environment marked by rapid product obsolescence. The programmable logic market is characterized by rapid technology and product evolution followed by a relatively longer ramp process to volume production. Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address the markets we serve. Customer design-in activity, and therefore future revenue growth is dependent on market acceptance of our new products and the continued market acceptance of our current products. We face uncertainties relating to the potential impact of customer design-in activity because we cannot easily predict whether any particular customer design-in will ultimately result in sales of significant volume. After we obtain a specific customer design-in, many factors can impact the timing and volume of sales which are ultimately realized. Changes in the competitive position of our technology, our customers' product competitiveness or product strategy, the financial condition of the customer, and other factors can impact the timing and volume of sales ultimately realized from any specific customer design-in. If our new products do not achieve market acceptance, or our current products do not maintain market acceptance, we may not be able to manage production levels or accurately forecast the future revenue and operating results may be adversely affected.Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and net income.We generally warrant our products for varying lengths of time against non-conformance to our specifications and certain other defects. Because our products, including hardware, software and intellectual property cores, are highly complex and increasingly incorporate advanced technology, our quality assurance programs may not detect all defects, whether manufacturing defects in individual products or systematic defects that could affect numerous shipments. Inability to detect a defect could result in a diversion of our engineering resources from product development efforts, increased engineering expenses to remediate the defect and increased costs due to inventory impairment charges. On occasion we have also repaired 16Table of Contentsor replaced certain components or made software fixes or refunded the purchase price or license fee paid by our customers due to product or software defects. If there are significant product defects, the costs to remediate such defects, net of reimbursed amounts from our vendors, if any, or to resolve warranty claims may adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and net income.The nature of our business makes our revenue and gross margin subject to fluctuation and difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business.In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition, we are dependent upon "turns," orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to timely meet customer product demands in a timely manner. The difficulty in forecasting revenues as well as the relative customer and product mix of those revenues impedes our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and gross margin guidance. Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins.The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature or may decline as we compete for market share or customer acceptance in competitive markets. We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. We also seek to continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. However, we cannot guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our financial results and our ability to compete effectively may suffer.Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and we rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technology, however, we may be unsuccessful in asserting our intellectual property rights or such rights may be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may attempt to misappropriate our intellectual property through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against us in the future. Such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. This could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products or require us to pay costly royalties to third parties in connection with sales of our products. Any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Litigation and unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under Item 3. "Legal Proceedings," included in Part I of this Form 10-K, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and certain portions of our business.If we are not able to successfully compete in the highly competitive semiconductor industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected.The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and many of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources. The current level of competition in the 17Table of Contentsprogrammable logic market is high and may increase in the future. We currently compete directly with companies that have licensed our technology or have developed similar products, including Altera Corporation and Xilinx, Inc. We also compete indirectly with numerous semiconductor companies that offer products based on alternative solutions such as ASIC, ASSP, microcontroller, analog, and digital signal processing (DSP) technologies. These direct and indirect competitors are established, multinational semiconductor companies as well as emerging companies. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our future results may be adversely affected.We depend upon a third party to provide inventory management, order fulfillment, and direct sales logistics and disruption of these services could adversely impact our business and results of operations.We rely on a third party vendor to provide cost-effective and efficient supply chain services. Among other activities, these outsourced services relate to direct sales logistics, including order fulfillment, inventory management and warehousing, and distribution of inventory to third party distributors. If our third party supply chain partner were to discontinue services for us or its operations are disrupted as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, or any other reason, our ability to fulfill direct sales orders and distribute inventory timely, cost effectively, or at all, would be hindered, which could adversely affect our business.We rely on independent software and hardware developers and disruption of these services could negatively affect our operations and financial results.We rely on independent software and hardware developers for the design, development, supply and support of intellectual property cores, design and development software, and certain elements of evaluation boards. As a result, failure or significant delay to complete software or deliver hardware in accordance with our plans and agreements could disrupt the release of or introduction of new or existing products, which might be detrimental to the capability of our new products to win designs. Any of these delays or inability to complete the design or development could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results.We rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly or our failure to control unauthorized access to our systems may cause business disruptions.We rely in part on various information technology ("IT") systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly make changes to improve them as necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. These systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in excessive cost or business disruption. We may also be subject to unauthorized access to our IT systems through a security breach or attack. In the past third parties have attempted to penetrate and or infect our network and systems with malicious software in an effort to gain access to our network and systems. We seek to prevent, detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. Our business could be significantly harmed and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach.We may have failed to adequately insure against certain risks, and, as a result, our financial condition and results may be adversely affected.We carry insurance customary for companies in our industry, including, but not limited to, liability, property and casualty, worker's compensation and business interruption insurance. We also insure our employees for basic medical expenses. In addition, we have insurance contracts that provide director and officer liability coverage for our directors and officers. Other than the specific areas mentioned above, we are self-insured with respect to most other risks and exposures, and the insurance we carry in many cases is subject to a significant policy deductible or other limitation before coverage applies. Based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure against certain risks than to incur the insurance premium costs. The risks and exposures for which we self-insure include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, theft, patent infringement and some employment practice matters. Should there be a catastrophic loss due to an uninsured event such as an earthquake or a loss due to adverse occurrences in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected.18Table of ContentsWe may experience a disruption of our business activities related to the execution of our restructuring plans. On October 12, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a 2012 restructuring plan. In connection with this restructuring plan, the Company reduced and eliminated certain sites. The 2012 restructuring plan is expected to be substantially completed in the first quarter of 2013.Our restructuring will result in fewer employees and relocation of some of our workforce, among other things. This could cause a disruption in our operations, inhibit our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and delay the introduction and customer acceptance of our new products. If this occurs, or we are unable to realize the benefits of this or future restructuring plans, our results may be adversely affected.We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us.We depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. From time to time we have effected restructuring which eliminate a number of positions. Even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. If we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.Acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, and we may not realize the goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction.We have recently acquired technology companies whose products complement our products, and in the past we have made a number of strategic investments in other technology companies whom we believe complement and improve our operational capabilities. We may make similar acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Acquisitions and strategic investments present risks, including:•our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by investment, acquisition, transition or integration activities;•an acquisition or strategic investment may not further our business strategy as we expected, and we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected;•our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by unexpected costs, claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition;•we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines;•we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, in general and administrative functions that support such products;•we may have difficulty integrating and retaining key personnel;•our liquidity and/or capital structure may be adversely impacted;•our strategic investments may not perform as expected; and•we may experience unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions and strategic investments pursuant to U.S. GAAP.The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions or strategic investments.We cannot guarantee that we will be able to consummate any future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from any of our past or future acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. A sustained decline in the price of our common stock may make it more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms.As a result of past acquisitions, as of December 29, 2012, we had $44.8 million in goodwill on our balance sheet. We are required under U.S. GAAP to test goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis and at any other time that circumstances arise indicating the carrying value may not be recoverable. We completed our annual test of goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of 2012 and concluded that we did not have any impairment at that time. There is no 19Table of Contentsassurance that future impairment tests will indicate that goodwill will be deemed recoverable.The conflict minerals provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act could result in additional costs and liabilities.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires the SEC to establish new disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. When these new requirements are implemented, they could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products. There will also be costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, including for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of any required remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities.20Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None.