Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results and reduce the value of an investment in our securities. This report also contains forward-looking statements and the following risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements. Our Email Encryption business depends upon customers using email to exchange confidential information, and a significant shift of those messages to other communication channels could impair our growth prospects and negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Our Email Encryption customers deploy and use our products and services to easily, securely and confidentially send and receive encrypted email messages. Our Email Encryption business and revenue substantially depend on our current and potential customers using email to exchange sensitive information electronically. New technologies or products, or new business models that could support secure communications, could be disruptive to our business. If prospective or current customers were to send and receive sensitive information using technology or communication 7 Table of Contents channels other than ours, our growth prospects and our business, financial condition and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Public key cryptography technology used in our businesses is subject to technology integrity risks that could reduce demand for our products and services and could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Our Email Encryption business employs public key cryptography technology and other encryption technologies to encrypt and decrypt messages. The security afforded by encryption depends on the integrity of the private key, which is predicated on the assumption that it is very difficult to mathematically derive the private key from the related public key. Successful decryption of encrypted information, or public reports of successful decryption, whether or not true, could reduce demand for our products and services. If new methods or technologies make it easier to derive the private key from the related public key, the security of encryption services using public key cryptography technology could be impaired and our products and services could become unmarketable. That could require us to make significant changes to our services, which could increase our costs, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business. Any of these events could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. The growth of our business may require significant investment in systems and infrastructure with no guarantee of revenue, which could impair our profitability and negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. As our operations grow in size and scope, we may need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer an increasing number of customers enhanced products, services, features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure and pursuing reduced costs per transaction. Expanding our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources, with no assurance that the volume of our business will increase, which could reduce our net income, deplete our cash, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. We face strong competition, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid change and converging technologies and are very competitive. With rising demand for private and secure email communications, there is strong competition for the email encryption products and services. Our Email Encryption business competes with products and services offered by companies such as Axway, Ironport (acquired by Cisco Systems Inc.), Echoworx, McAfee, Inc., PGP Corporation, Proofpoint, Trend Micro and Voltage Security. Strong competition requires us to develop new technology solutions and service offerings to expand the functionality and value that we offer to our customers. Some of our competitors offer email encryption services together with products and services that we do not offer, which could make our offering less attractive by comparison. As a result of the bundling of products by these competitors, it can be difficult for our customers to compare the cost of our products with competing products. In some instances, competing products may seem to be offered by our competitors at little to no additional cost to the customer. In addition, our competitors may develop technology solutions and service offerings that are perceived by customers as equivalent to, or having advantages over, our products and services. Competitors could capture a significant share in our markets, causing our sales and revenue to decline or grow more slowly. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that compete with our products are regularly formed. Competitive pressures could lead to price discounting or to increases in expenses such as advertising and marketing costs. Increased competition could also decrease demand for our products and services. Competition could reduce our revenues and net income and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. 8 Table of Contents Some competitors have advantages that may allow them to compete more effectively than us, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, more extensive operations, greater name recognition, larger technical staffs, bigger product development and acquisition budgets, established relationships with more distributors and hardware vendors, and greater financial and marketing resources than we do. These resource advantages might enable them (independently or through alliances) to develop and expand functionality of products and services faster than we can, to spend more money to market and distribute products and services than we can, or to offer their products and services at prices lower than ours. These advantages could reduce our revenues and net income and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. We plan to increasingly rely on third party distributors to help us market our Email Encryption products and services, and our failure to succeed in those relationships could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. We plan to increase the distribution of our Email Encryption products and services by entering into alliances with third parties who can offer our products and services along with their own products and services. Increased reliance on third parties to market and distribute our products and services exposes us to a variety of risks. For example, we have limited control over the timing of the delivery of our products to customers by third party distributors, which could increase the length of our sales cycle, cause our revenue to fluctuate unpredictably and make it difficult to accurately forecast our revenue. We may not succeed in developing or maintaining marketing alliances. Companies with which we have marketing alliances may in the future discontinue their relationships with us, form marketing alliances with our competitors, or develop and market their own products and services that compete with ours. If a significant distributor were to discontinue its relationship with us, we could experience an interruption in the distribution of our products and services and our revenues could decline. Our failure to develop, maintain and expand strategic distribution relationships could reduce our revenues and net income and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Our business depends on market acceptance of our Email Encryption service, and our failure to achieve market penetration could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Our revenue and financial results are dependent on our Email Encryption business. In order to continue to operate profitably, we must achieve broad market acceptance of our Email Encryption service at a price that provides an acceptable rate of return relative to our costs. We have been successful in selling our products and services to various high-profile customers, particularly in the healthcare, financial services and government segments of our market. The acceptance and use of our Email Encryption products and services by those significant customers facilitates our sales to potential customers, and an expanding base of users in the Zix Directory aids in our market penetration and expansion. We must continue to respond to evolving business models for technology offerings in order to achieve market acceptance. The loss of an influential customer could impair our ability to expand the market penetration of our products and services, or cause us to reduce prices, which could reduce our revenues and net income and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Unfavorable economic and political environments could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdows in technology and networking industries at large, as well as in the specific markets in which we operate. If economic growth in those markets is slow, or credit is unavailable at a reasonable cost, current and potential customers may delay or reduce technology purchases, including the deployment or expansion of our Email Encryption products and services. This could result in reduced sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, adverse economic conditions could negatively affect the cash flow of our customers and distributors, which might result in failures or delays in payments to us. This could increase our credit risk exposure and delay our recognition of revenue. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for PCs, services and other computing devices, or softness in corporate information technology spending, could have a more direct impact on our business. If these conditions 9 Table of Contents remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our failure to keep pace with rapid technology changes could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and financial results. The markets for our products and services are characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent changes in customer requirements. We must continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services, particularly in response to competitive offerings, to keep pace with these developments. We must ensure that our products and services address evolving operating environments, industry trends, certifications and standards. For example we must expand our offerings for virtual computer environments and mobile environments to support a broader range of mobile devices. We also must develop products that are compatible with new operating systems while remaining compatible with existing, popular operating systems. Our business could be harmed by our competitors announcing or introducing new products and services that could be perceived by customers as superior to ours. We spend considerable resources on technology research and development, but our research and development resources are more limited than many of our competitors. Our business substantially depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological and market changes and we may be unable to introduce new or enhanced products into the market on a timely basis, or at all. Our enhancements to existing products and services, or our potential new products and services, may not receive customer acceptance. Our failure to introduce new or enhanced products on a timely basis, to keep pace with rapid industry, technological or market changes or to gain customer acceptance for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and financial results. If our products do not work properly, our business, financial condition and financial results could be negatively affected and we could experience negative publicity, declining sales and legal liability. We produce complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software, that must operate in a wide variety of technology environments. Software may contain defects or “bugs” that can interfere with expected operations. There can be no assurance that our testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects prior to the product being introduced, which might decrease customer satisfaction with our products and services. The product reengineering cost to remedy a product defect could be material to our operating results. Our inability to cure a product defect could result in the temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product or service, negative publicity, damage to our reputation, failure to achieve market acceptance, lost revenue and increased expense, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and financial results. The infrastructure supporting our Email Encryption business may suffer capacity constraints and business interruptions that could cause us to lose customers, increase our operating costs and could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Our business depends on our providing our customers reliable, real-time access to our data centers and networks. Customers will not tolerate a service hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service levels, service outages, or insufficient capacity. System capacity limits or constraints arising from unexpected increases in our volume of business could cause interruptions, outages or delays in our services, or deterioration in their performance, or could impair our ability to process transactions. We may not be able to accurately project the rate of increase in usage of our network or to timely increase capacity to accommodate increased traffic on our network. System delays or interruptions may prevent us from efficiently providing services to our customers or other third parties, which could result in our losing customers and revenues, or incurring liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and financial results. 10 Table of Contents Our Email Encryption business depends substantially on our data center facilities, and their unreliability or unavailability for a significant period could cause us to lose customers and could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Much of the computer and communications hardware upon which our businesses depend is located in our data center facilities in Dallas and Austin, Texas and in the United Kingdom. Our data centers might be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, hostilities or war or other events. Computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions affecting the internet or our systems might cause service interruptions, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing our services. Problems affecting our systems might be expensive to remedy and could significantly diminish our reputation and prevent us from providing services. An incident that interrupts our data center operations or our networks could result in loss of revenues, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of resources, injury to our reputation, liability and increased costs. We do not carry sufficient insurance to compensate us for all reasonably conceivable losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Outages or problems with systems and infrastructure supplied by third parties could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Our businesses rely on third-party suppliers of the global telecommunications infrastructure. We use various communications service suppliers and the global internet to provide network access between our data centers, our customers and end-users of our services. If those suppliers do not enable us to provide our customers with reliable, real-time access to our systems, we may be unable to gain or retain customers. These suppliers periodically experience outages or other operational problems. Any of these outages or problems could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Problems with enforcing our intellectual property rights or using third party intellectual property could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce and may offer limited protection of our intellectual property rights against potential infringers. We rely on a combination of contractual rights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and copyrights to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products and services. These intellectual property rights or other proprietary rights might be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary information may not prevent its misuse, theft or misappropriation. Competitors may independently develop technologies or products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or that inappropriately incorporate our proprietary technology into their products. Competitors may hire our former employees who may misappropriate our proprietary technology. Some jurisdictions may not provide adequate legal protection of our intellectual property rights. We may have to defend our rights in intellectual property that we use in our services, and we could be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could be disruptive and expensive to our business. We may have to defend against claims that we or our customers are infringing the rights of third parties in patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property. If we acquire technology to include in our products from third parties, our exposure to infringement actions may increase because we must rely upon these third parties to verify the origin and ownership of such technology. Intellectual property litigation and controversies are disruptive and expensive. Even unmeritorious claims brought against our customers may harm our reputation and customer relationships, and may have to be settled for significant amounts. Infringement claims could require us to develop non-infringing services or enter into expensive royalty or licensing arrangements. Our business, financial condition and financial results could be materially adversely affected if we are not able to develop non-infringing technology or license technology on commercially reasonable terms. 11 Table of Contents We may face risks from using “open source” software that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Like many other software companies, we may use “open source” software in order to add functionality to our products quickly and inexpensively. Open source software license terms could adversely affect our intellectual property rights in our products that include open source software. We could lose the right to use the open source code if we fail to comply with the license obligations. Using open source code could also cause us to inadvertently infringe third-party intellectual property rights. We have processes and controls in place that are designed to address these risks and concerns, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. We may fail to recruit and retain key personnel, which could impair our ability to meet key objectives. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Changes in key personnel may be disruptive to our business. It could be difficult, time consuming and expensive to replace key personnel. Integrating new key personnel may be difficult and costly. Volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program including our stock incentive program may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on the performance of our stock price. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel could make it difficult to meet key objectives. Any of these impairments related to our key personnel could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Our usage of personal information, and inadvertent exposure of confidential information, could cause us to violate data privacy laws or lose customers and could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. In our Email Encryption business, we collect, process, store, use and transmit large amounts of personally identifiable information about individuals, such as personal healthcare or financial information. Our handling of these types of data is increasingly subject to regulation around the world. These regulations may result in conflicting requirements. Our business could be materially adversely affected if legal restrictions on the use of personally identifiable information are expanded or are interpreted in ways that conflict with our business practices or increase our costs. Unauthorized disclosure of personal information (including through intrusion by a hacker) or other failure by us to comply with data privacy requirements could subject us to significant penalties, remediation and other expenses, and damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and financial results. Governmental restrictions on the sale of our products and services in non-U.S. markets could negatively affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Exports of software solutions and services using encryption technology, such as our Email Encryption Service, are generally restricted by the U.S. government. Although we have obtained U.S. government approval to export our Email Encryption service to almost all countries, the list of countries to which we cannot export our products and services could be expanded in the future. In addition, some countries impose restrictions on the use of encryption solutions and services such as ours. The cost of compliance with U.S. and other export laws, or our failure to obtain governmental approvals to offer our products and services in non-U.S. markets, could affect our ability to sell our products and services and could impair our international expansion. We face a variety of other legal and compliance risks. If we or our distributors fail to comply with applicable law and regulations, we may become subject to penalties, fines or restrictions that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. 12 Table of Contents Our financial performance could be erratic and asset impairments could negatively affect our financial condition and financial results. Although we generate adequate cash flow from operations and we expect to be profitable, we may not continue to produce sufficient cash flow or show a profit. Our balance sheets reflect goodwill relating to our Email Encryption business, as well as other assets. We periodically evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill and other assets to determine if their values have been impaired, which could require us to recognize a non-cash charge to earnings. Any of these circumstances could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. The market price of our securities could be volatile and our securities may decline in value. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. In addition to stock price volatility related to our business performance, our stock price may fluctuate due to events affecting our industry or our competitors, as well as general economic and political conditions or otherwise. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in general, and such fluctuations were often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These fluctuations have and will continue to affect smaller capitalized technology companies like us. Any of these circumstances could cause our securities to decline in value. Exercises of options and warrants for our common stock would dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and could negatively affect the value of our securities. We have a significant number of outstanding warrants and options, including options held by our employees. The exercise of warrants or options, and the resulting issuance of additional shares of our common stock, would substantially dilute the ownership interests and voting rights of our current shareholders. Issuance or sales of those additional shares could cause our securities to decline in value. Our issuances of additional debt or equity securities could dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and could negatively affect the value of our securities. We may issue additional debt or equity securities, including convertible debt, common and convertible preferred stock, and warrants to acquire common or preferred stock. Those securities could be issued in public or private transactions, at or below the then-prevailing market price of our securities. In addition, we may grant our employees shares of our common stock and options to purchase those shares. Our issuance of additional securities could substantially dilute the ownership interests and voting rights of our current shareholders. Issuance or sales of those additional shares could cause our securities to decline in value. NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS This document contains “forward-looking statements” (including the discussion appearing under the caption “Liquidity Summary” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Act”) and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical fact are “forward-looking statements” for purposes of federal and state securities laws, including: any projections of future business, market share, earnings, revenues, cash receipts, or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning proposed new products, services, or developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements of belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may include the words “may,” “will,” “predict,” “project,” “forecast,” “plan,” “should,” “could,” “goal,” “estimate,” “intend,” “continue,” “believe,” “expect,” “outlook,” “anticipate,” “hope,” and other similar expressions. Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from the events or results described in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in the “Risk Factors” section above. 13 Table of Contents Although we believe that expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, such as those disclosed in this document. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any forward-looking statement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 