Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered before making an investment decision relating to our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Global economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses, collectability of accounts receivable and supplier relationships. Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for programmable logic devices in markets in which we compete. Global economic weakness and constrained infrastructure spending have previously resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, our relationships with our employees and suppliers could be adversely affected. We could experience such economic weakness and reduced spending due to various macroeconomic factors affecting spending and investment behavior, including periods of economic recession, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, access to credit, and the weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other world currencies. In addition, customer financial difficulties have previously resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio. We also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain products, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned production lines, and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. Global economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Whenever adverse economic or end market conditions exist, there is likely to be an adverse effect on our operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our entire long-term marketable securities portfolio is invested in auction rate securities, and have all been the subject of failed auctions, which have adversely affected their liquidity. If auction rate securities continue to experience unsuccessful auctions, or if the credit rating of the auction rate security, auction rate security issuer, the third-party insurer of such investments, the issuers of the investments underlying the securities or credit default swaps deteriorate, we have and may in the future be required to adjust the carrying value of the auction rate security through impairment charges, and any of these events could have a materially detrimental effect on our liquidity and results of operations. At January 3, 2009 and December 29, 2007, we held auction rate securities that were considered illiquid with a face value of $39.2 million and $44.9 million, respectively, and an estimated fair value of $19.5 million and $44.9 million, respectively. Long-term marketable securities with a face value of $14.0 million (estimated fair value of $5.3 million) are exposed to risks associated with the sale of credit default swaps, pursuant to which the assets underlying the auction rate securities are exposed to claims in the event of default of certain debt instruments owned by third parties. In addition, investment grade long-term marketable securities with a face value of $8.3 million (estimated fair value of $0.9 million) were replaced on December 3, 2008 by Ambac Assurance Corporation (“AMBAC”, the issuer) auction market preferred shares, as a result of AMBAC exercising their put option feature provided in this security. For the year ended January 3, 2009, the credit ratings on our corporate auction rate securities were downgraded from AAA to ratings ranging from A- and BBB- and preferred shares auction rate securities were downgraded from AA to BBB. In addition, Long-term marketable securities with a face value of $16.9 million (estimated fair value of $13.2 million) are exposed to risks associated with student loan asset-backed notes. Such notes are insured by the federal government or guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP). The credit ratings on our student loan auction rate securities remained unchanged at AAA. While the auctions for auction rate securities have historically provided a liquid market for these securities, due to liquidity issues in global credit and capital markets, auction rate securities held by us have experienced multiple failed auctions (a portion beginning in October 2007) as the amount of securities submitted for sale at the auctions has exceeded the amount of purchase orders. These instruments are considered illiquid and have been reclassified as Long-term marketable securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Due to the severity of the decline in fair value, the duration of the decline, and the downgrading of the credit ratings on some of the securities, the Company determined that an other-than-temporary decline in fair value had occurred, and recorded an impairment charge of $19.7 million for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2009. If we were to liquidate our position in these securities, the amount realized could be materially different than the estimated fair value amounts at which we are carrying these securities and there could be a materially detrimental effect on our financial results. Sales of our older products may decline faster than sales of our new products increase, which would result in reduced revenues and gross margins. Our product development strategy is to aggressively introduce new products in order to grow our overall revenue. While we expect the strong growth of new product revenue to continue, there is no assurance that the rate of growth can be maintained, or that new product revenue will meet our expectations. In addition, currently the majority of our revenue is derived from sales of mainstream and mature products. Mature products are older products that generally are no longer designed by customers into end systems and are sold to support the mass production of customer end systems in which they have historically been designed. Consequently, sales of these products have a tendency to decline as customer end systems gradually reach the end of their life cycles. Mainstream products are more recently introduced products that may still be designed by customers into new systems. However, they are predominantly used in customer end systems that are in the mid-life stage of their life cycles. Consequently, sales of mainstream products can be volatile and are subject to overall economic, industry and customer specific inventory conditions. Sales of mainstream products may increase or decline in a given period depending on conditions. 12 Table of Contents We have limited ability to predict or to foresee changes or the pace of changes in sales by product classification. In recent periods, we have experienced increased rates of decline in sales of our mature products. Additionally, in the past we have also experienced periods of decline in sales of our mainstream products. If in any period, the overall sales of the combination of our mature and mainstream products decline and if sales of new products do not increase at a rate that is sufficient to counteract this decline, then our total revenues would decline. In addition, as mature products typically generate a higher gross margin than mainstream or new products, a faster than normal decline in sales of mature products could adversely impact our gross margins. Export sales account for the majority of our revenue and may decline in the future due to economic and governmental uncertainties. We derive a majority of our revenue from export sales. Accordingly, if we experience a decline in export sales, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our export sales are subject to numerous risks, including: • changes in local economic conditions; • exchange rate volatility; • governmental stimulus packages, controls and trade restrictions; • export license requirements and restrictions on the export of technology; • political instability, war or terrorism; • changes in tax rates, tariffs or freight rates; • interruptions in transportation; and • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales offices. A downturn in the communications equipment end market could cause a reduction in demand for our products and limit our ability to maintain revenue levels and operating results. The majority of our revenue (currently approximately 54%) is derived from customers in the communications equipment end market. Any deterioration in this end market or any reduction in technology capital spending could lead to a reduction in demand for our products. For example, in the past, a general weakening in demand for programmable logic products from customers in the communications end market has adversely affected our revenue. Whenever adverse economic or end market conditions exist, there is likely to be an adverse effect on our operating results. Unforeseen events related to the global economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our ability to collect amounts due from Fujitsu. As of January 3, 2009, we have Fujitsu related accounts that aggregate $91.6 million, of which $60.0 million is an other receivable to be repaid during Fujitsu’s first and third fiscal quarters in 2009. The balance of the final repayment to be made after commencement of Fujitsu’s first fiscal quarter in 2010 will be an amount equal to that aggregate balance of $91.6 million less the $60.0 million of repayments during Fujitsu’s first and third fiscal quarters in 2009 and less the amounts of wafer credits or other services (including engineering mask set charges) provided by Fujitsu to Lattice between January 3, 2009 and the date of final repayment. The obligation of Fujitsu is unsecured. If unforeseen events related to the global economic conditions and uncertainties adversely affect Fujitsu, we may have to adjust the carrying value of these accounts and it could have a materially detrimental effect on our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents The downturn in the economy and the volatility in the capital markets could limit our ability to access capital or could increase our costs of capital, if additional financing is required. We have seen a dramatic downturn in the U.S. and global economy. While we intend to fund our operations from working capital, our ability to execute stock buyback programs, fund capital expansion projects, enter into strategic investments, or support potential acquisitions may be limited as a result of the deteriorating capital markets. Historically, the Company has occasionally accessed these markets to support certain business activities. In the future, the Company may not be able to obtain capital market financing or credit availability on similar terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We may be unsuccessful in defining, developing or selling the new programmable logic products required to maintain or expand our business. As a semiconductor company, we operate in a dynamic environment marked by rapid product obsolescence. The programmable logic market is characterized by rapid technology and product evolution and historically the market for FPGA products has grown faster than the market for PLD products. Currently we derive a greater proportion of our revenue from PLD products than FPGA products. Consequently, our future success depends on our ability to introduce new FPGA and associated software design tool products that meet evolving customer needs while achieving acceptable margins. We are presently shipping our next generation FPGA product families that are critical to our ability to grow our FPGA product revenue and expand our overall revenue. We also plan to continue upgrading our customer design tool products and increase our offerings of intellectual property cores. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner, or if these products or future new products fail to achieve market acceptance, our operating results would be harmed. Lattice and Fujitsu have entered into agreements pursuant to which Fujitsu manufactures our current and future FPGA products on its 130 nanometer, 90 nanometer and 65 nanometer CMOS process technologies, as well as on 130 nanometer and 90 nanometer technologies with embedded flash memory that we have jointly developed with Fujitsu. Fujitsu is our sole source supplier of wafers for our newest FPGA products and our planned future FPGA products. The success of our next generation FPGA products is dependent on our ability to successfully partner with Fujitsu. If for any reason we are unsuccessful in our efforts to partner with Fujitsu in connection with these next generation FPGA products, our future revenue growth may be materially adversely affected. The introduction of new silicon and software design tool products in a dynamic market environment presents significant business challenges. Product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales. The market reception of new products depends on accurate projections of long-term customer demand, which by their nature are uncertain. Our future revenue growth is dependent on market acceptance of our new silicon and software design tool products and the continued market acceptance of our current products. The success of these products is dependent on a variety of specific technical factors including: • successful product definition; • timely and efficient completion of product design; • timely and efficient implementation of wafer manufacturing and assembly processes; • product performance; • product cost; and • the quality and reliability of the product. If, due to these or other factors, our new silicon and software products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results may be harmed. 14 Table of Contents We may experience a disruption of our business activities due to the transition to a new executive management team. We may experience disruption in our business activities as we transition to a new executive management team, and our relationships with employees, customers and suppliers could be adversely affected by these disruptions. In addition, our competitors may seek to use this transition and the related potential disruptions to gain a competitive advantage over us. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our executive officers and key personnel and in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and it may be increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. In addition, the transition to new executive officers has involved the development of a new cost structure, a refined product strategy and a new business model that better aligns operating costs with near-term revenue expectations to deliver improved operating results. Any changes to our business are subject to the risks that management may be diverted from ongoing business activities, we could incur significant costs and expenses to undertake changes, and that such changes may result in loss of key employees and customer relationships. The benefits from changes in the cost structure and product strategy may not materialize for a number of reasons, including the possibility that we may incur unanticipated costs, experience management turnover, or fail to gain market acceptance of a refined product strategy or be unable to execute the plan in a timely manner. The potential impact of customer design-in activity on future revenue is inherently uncertain and could impact our ability to manage production or our ability to forecast sales. We face uncertainties relating to the potential impact of customer design-in activity because it is unknown whether any particular customer design-in will ultimately result in sales of significant volume. After a specific customer design-in is obtained, many factors can impact the timing and amount of sales that are ultimately realized from the specific customer design-in. Changes in the competitive position of our technology, our customer’s product competitiveness, our customer’s product strategy, the financial position of our customer, and many other factors can all impact the timing and amount of sales ultimately realized from any specific customer design-in. As a result, we may not be able to accurately manage the production levels of our new products or accurately forecast the future sales of such products, and, thus, our operating results may be harmed. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and net income. We generally warrant our products for varying lengths of time against non-conformance to our specifications and certain other defects. Because our products, including hardware, software and intellectual property cores, are highly complex and increasingly incorporate advanced technology, our quality assurance programs may not detect all defects, whether manufacturing defects in individual products or systematic defects that could affect numerous shipments. Inability to detect a defect could result in increased engineering expenses necessary to remediate the defect and also result in increased costs due to inventory impairment charges. On occasion we have also repaired or replaced certain components and software or refunded the purchase price or license fee paid by our customers due to product defects. If there are material increases in product defects, the costs to remediate such defects, or the costs to resolve warranty claims compared with our historical experience, our revenue, gross margins, and net income may be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may limit our ability to maintain revenue levels and operating results during industry downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, to a greater extent than other less technology-driven industries. Our financial performance has periodically been negatively affected by downturns in the semiconductor industry. Factors that contribute to these industry downturns include: • the cyclical nature of the demand for the products of semiconductor customers; • general reductions in inventory levels by customers; • excess production capacity; • general decline in end-user demand; and • accelerated declines in average selling prices. Historically, the semiconductor industry has experienced periodic downturns of varying degrees of severity and duration. Typically, after such downturns, semiconductor industry conditions improve, although such improvement may not be significant or sustainable. Increased demand for semiconductor industry products may not proportionately increase demand for programmable logic products in general, or our products in particular. Even if demand for our products increases, average selling prices for our products may not increase, and could decline. Whenever adverse semiconductor industry conditions or other similar conditions exist, there is likely to be an adverse effect on our operating results. Further, our ability to predict end-user demand is limited. Typically, the majority of our revenue comes from “turns orders,” which are orders placed and filled within the same quarter. By definition, turns orders are not captured in a backlog measurement at the beginning of a quarter. Accordingly, we cannot use backlog as a reliable measure of predicting revenue. Our wafer supply could be interrupted or reduced, which may result in a shortage of products available for sale. We do not manufacture finished silicon wafers and many of our products, including all of our newest FPGA products, are manufactured by a sole source. Currently, our silicon wafers are manufactured by Fujitsu in Japan, Seiko Epson in Japan, UMC in Taiwan and Chartered Semiconductor in Singapore. If any of our current or future foundry partners significantly interrupts or reduces our wafer supply, our operating results could be harmed. In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining wafers and in securing supply commitments from our foundries. At present, we anticipate that our supply commitments are adequate. However, these existing supply commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. Additionally, notwithstanding our supply commitments, we may still have difficulty in obtaining wafer deliveries consistent with the supply commitments. We negotiate wafer prices and supply commitments from our suppliers on at least an annual basis. If any of our foundry partners were to reduce its supply commitment or increase its wafer prices, and we cannot find alternative sources of wafer supply, our operating results could be harmed. Many other factors that could disrupt our wafer supply are beyond our control. Since worldwide manufacturing capacity for silicon wafers is limited and inelastic, we could be harmed by significant industry-wide increases in overall wafer demand or interruptions in wafer supply. Additionally, a future disruption of any of our foundry partners’ foundry operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, or other natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our wafer supply and could harm our operating results. If our foundry partners experience quality or yield problems, we may face a shortage of products available for sale. We depend on our foundries to deliver high quality silicon wafers with acceptable yields in a timely manner. As is common in our industry, we have experienced wafer yield problems and delivery delays. If our foundries 16 Table of Contents are unable for a prolonged period to produce silicon wafers that meet our specifications, with acceptable yields, our operating results could be harmed. The reliable manufacture of high performance programmable logic devices is a complicated and technically demanding process requiring: • a high degree of technical skill; • state-of-the-art equipment; • the availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers and ultra-pure metals; • the absence of defects in production wafers; • the elimination of minute impurities and errors in each step of the fabrication process; and • effective cooperation between the wafer supplier and us. As a result, our foundries may experience difficulties in achieving acceptable quality and yield levels when manufacturing our silicon wafers. Our products may not be competitive if we are unsuccessful in migrating our manufacturing processes to more advanced technologies or alternative fabrication facilities. To develop new products and maintain the competitiveness of existing products, we need to migrate to more advanced wafer manufacturing processes that use smaller device geometries. We also may need to use additional foundries. Because we depend upon foundries to provide their facilities and support for our process technology development, we may experience delays in the availability of advanced wafer manufacturing process technologies at existing or new wafer fabrication facilities. As a result, volume production of our advanced process technologies at fabrication facilities may not be achieved. This could harm our operating results. Our supply of assembled and tested products could be interrupted or reduced, which may result in a shortage of products available for sale. We do not assemble our finished products or perform all testing of our products. Currently, our finished products are assembled and may be tested by independent contractors in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and South Korea or elsewhere in Asia. If any of our current or future assembly or test contractors significantly interrupts or reduces our supply of assembled and tested devices, our operating results could be harmed. In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining assembled and tested products and in securing assembly and test capacity commitments from our suppliers. At present, we anticipate that our assembly and test capacity commitments are adequate. However, these existing commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. Additionally, notwithstanding our assembly and test capacity commitments we may still have difficulty in obtaining deliveries of finished products consistent with the capacity commitments. We negotiate assembly and test prices and capacity commitments from our contractors on a periodic basis. If any of our assembly or test contractors were to reduce its capacity commitment or increase its prices, and we cannot find alternative sources, our operating results could be harmed. Many other factors that could disrupt our supply of finished products are beyond our control. Because worldwide capacity for assembly and testing of semiconductor products is limited and inelastic, we could be harmed by significant industry-wide increases in overall demand or interruptions in supply. The assembly of complex packages requires a consistent supply of a variety of raw materials such as substrates, leadframes, and mold compound. The worldwide manufacturing capacity for these materials is also limited and inelastic. A 17 Table of Contents significant industry-wide increase in demand, or interruptions in the supply of these materials to our assembly or test contractors, could harm our operating results. Additionally, a future disruption of any of our assembly or test contractors’ operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, or other natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our supply of assembled and tested devices and could harm our operating results. In addition, our quarterly revenue levels may be affected to a significant extent by our ability to match inventory and current production mix with the product mix required to fulfill orders. The large number of individual parts we sell and the large number of customers for our products, combined with limitations on our and our customers’ ability to forecast orders accurately and our relatively lengthy manufacturing cycles, may make it difficult to achieve a match of inventory on hand, production units, and shippable orders sufficient to realize quarterly or annual revenue projections. If our assembly and test supply contractors experience quality or yield problems, we may face a shortage of products available for sale. We rely on contractors to assemble and test our devices with acceptable quality and yield levels. As is common in our industry, we have experienced quality and yield problems in the past. If we experience prolonged quality or yield problems in the future, our operating results could be harmed. The majority of our revenue is derived from semiconductor devices assembled in advanced packages. The assembly of advanced packages is a complex process requiring: • a high degree of technical skill; • state-of-the-art equipment; • the absence of defects in assembly and packaging manufacturing; • the elimination of raw material impurities and errors in each step of the process; and • effective cooperation between the assembly contractor and us. As a result, our contractors may experience difficulties in achieving acceptable quality and yield levels when assembling and testing our semiconductor devices. Our stock price may continue to experience large fluctuations. Historically, the price of our common stock has at times experienced rapid and severe price fluctuations that have left investors little time to react. The price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to a variety of company specific factors, including: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and investors; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by other companies; • any adverse consequences that could arise if our stock price declines below $1.00 per share, including de-listing or other consequences; and • any developments, that materially adversely impact investors’ or customers’ perceptions of our business prospects. Our stock price has ranged from a low of $1.04 per share to a high of $4.00 per share for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2009. 18 Table of Contents We may fail to retain or attract the specialized technical and management personnel required to successfully operate our business. To a greater degree than most non-technology companies or larger technology companies, our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. As a mid-sized company, we are particularly dependent on a relatively small group of key employees. Competition for skilled technical and management employees is intense within our industry. As a result, we may not be able to retain our existing key technical and management personnel. In addition, we may not be able to attract additional qualified employees in the future. If we are unable to retain existing key employees or are unable to hire new qualified employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate and therefore may fail to meet expectations. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate. Consequently, our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of analysts and investors. As a result of industry conditions and the following specific factors, our quarterly operating results are more likely to fluctuate and are more difficult to predict than a typical non-technology company of our size and maturity: • general economic conditions in the countries where we sell our products; • conditions within the end markets into which we sell our products; • the cyclical nature of demand for our customers’ products; • excessive inventory accumulation by our end customers; • the timing of our and our competitors’ new product introductions; • product obsolescence; • the scheduling, rescheduling and cancellation of large orders by our customers; • the willingness and ability of our customers and distributors to make payment to us in a timely manner; • our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume production at wafer fabrication facilities; • changes in manufacturing yields including delays in achieving target yields on new products; • adverse movements in exchange rates, interest rates or tax rates; and • the availability of adequate supply commitments from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. Conditions in Asia may disrupt our existing supply arrangements and result in a shortage of finished products available for sale. All of our major silicon wafer suppliers operate fabrication facilities located in Asia. Additionally, our finished silicon wafers are assembled and tested by independent contractors located in Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines and South Korea. Economic, financial, social and political conditions in Asia have historically been volatile. Financial difficulties, the effects of currency fluctuation, governmental actions or restrictions, prolonged work stoppages, political unrest, war, natural disaster, disease or any other difficulties experienced by our suppliers may disrupt our supply and could harm our operating results. We may not be able to fund future foundry partner investments and meet other capital needs when required or on favorable terms. We may in the future seek new or additional sources of funding. In addition, in order to secure additional wafer supply, we may from time to time consider various financial arrangements including equity investments, advance purchase payments, loans, or similar arrangements with independent wafer manufacturers in exchange 19 Table of Contents for committed wafer capacity. To the extent that we pursue any such additional financing arrangements, additional debt or equity financing may be required. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available when needed or, if available, will be on favorable terms. Any future equity financing will decrease existing stockholders’ equity percentage ownership and may, depending on the price at which the equity is sold, result in dilution. We may not be able to successfully compete in the highly competitive semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and many of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources. The current level of competition in the programmable logic market is high and may increase in the future. We currently compete directly with companies that have licensed our technology or have developed similar products. We also compete indirectly with numerous semiconductor companies that offer products based on alternative technical solutions. These direct and indirect competitors are established multinational semiconductor companies as well as emerging companies. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our future results will be adversely affected. We may have failed to adequately insure against certain risks, and, as a result, our financial condition and results may be adversely affected. We carry insurance customary for companies in our industry, including, but not limited to, liability, property and casualty, worker’s compensation and business interruption insurance. We also self-insure our employees for basic medical expenses, subject to a true insurance stop loss for catastrophic illness. In addition, we have insurance contracts that provide director and officer liability coverage for our directors and officers. Other than the specific areas mentioned above, we are self-insured with respect to most other risks and exposures, and the insurance we carry in many cases is subject to a significant policy deductible or other limitation before coverage applies. Based on management’s assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure against certain risks than to incur the insurance premium costs. The risks and exposures for which we self-insure include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, theft, patent infringement and some employment practice matters. Should there be a catastrophic loss due to an uninsured event such as an earthquake or a loss due to adverse occurrences in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal controls over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our financial results and competitive position may suffer. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. However, we may fail to adequately protect this technology. As a result, we may lose our competitive position or face significant expense to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. 20 Table of Contents We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secrets. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving adequate protection. Claims allowed on any of our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Patents issued to us also may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Finally, our competitors may develop similar technology independently. Companies in the semiconductor industry vigorously pursue their intellectual property rights. If we become involved in protracted intellectual property disputes or litigation we may be forced to use substantial financial and management resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our industry is characterized by frequent claims regarding patents and other intellectual property rights of others. We have been, and from time to time expect to be, notified of claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. If any third party makes a valid claim against us, we could face significant liability and could be required to make material changes to our products and processes. In response to any claims of infringement, we may seek licenses under patents that we are alleged to be infringing. However, we may not be able to obtain a license on favorable terms, or at all, without our operating results being adversely affected. We face risks related to litigation. We are exposed to certain asserted and unasserted potential claims, including the pending patent litigation brought against us by Lizy K. John. There can be no assurance that, with respect to potential claims made against us, we could resolve such claims under terms and conditions that would not have a material adverse effect on our business, our liquidity or our financial results. We have been and may in the future be subject to various other legal proceedings, including claims that involve possible infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights of third parties. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of litigation matters, and there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any litigation. Any such litigation could result in a substantial diversion of our efforts and the use of substantial management and financial resources, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Further, an adverse determination in any such litigation could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 