Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered before making an investment decision relating to our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Sales of our older products may decline faster than sales of our new products increase, which would result in reduced revenues and gross margins. Our product development strategy is to aggressively introduce new products in order to grow our overall revenue. However, currently the majority of our revenue is derived from sales of mainstream and mature products. Mature products are older products that generally are no longer designed by customers into end systems and are sold to support the mass production of customer end systems in which they have historically been designed. Consequently, sales of these products have a tendency to decline as customer end systems gradually reach the end of their life cycles. Mainstream products are more recently introduced products that may still be designed by customers into new systems. However, they are predominantly used in customer end systems that are in the early to mid-life stage of their life cycles. Consequently, sales of mainstream products can be volatile and are subject to overall economic, industry and customer specific inventory conditions. Sales of mainstream products may increase or decline in a given period depending on conditions. 11 Table of Contents We have limited ability to predict or to foresee changes or the pace of changes in sales by product classification. In recent periods, we have experienced increased rates of decline in sales of our mature products. Additionally, in the past we have also experienced periods of declines in sales of our mainstream products. If in any period, the overall sales of the combination of our mature and mainstream products decline and if sales of new products do not increase at a rate that is sufficient to counteract this decline, then our total revenues would decline. In addition, as mature products typically generate a higher gross margin than mainstream or new products generate, a faster than normal decline in sales of mature products could adversely impact our gross margins. A downturn in the communications equipment end market could cause a reduction in demand for our products and limit our ability to maintain revenue levels and operating results. The majority of our revenue is derived from customers in the communications equipment end market. Any deterioration in this end market or any reduction in technology capital spending could lead to a reduction in demand for our products. For example, in the past, a general weakening in demand for programmable logic products from customers in the communications end market has adversely affected our revenue. Whenever adverse economic or end market conditions exist, there is likely to be an adverse effect on our operating results. We may experience a disruption of our business activities due to the transition to a new Chief Executive Officer. On February 1, 2008, we announced that we had reached an agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to which he agreed to resign his positions with the Company effective as of May 31, 2008. We are in the process of searching for a new Chief Executive Officer, but there is no assurance that we will identify and reach an employment agreement with a new Chief Executive Officer in sufficient time for the new Chief Executive Officer to join the Company by May 31, 2008. There is also no assurance that the new Chief Executive Officer will be able to immediately lead the Company in an effective manner or achieve the Company’s business objectives. We may be unsuccessful in defining, developing or selling the new FPGA products required to maintain or expand our business. As a semiconductor company, we operate in a dynamic environment marked by rapid product obsolescence. The programmable logic market is characterized by rapid technology and product evolution and historically the market for FPGA products has grown faster than the market for PLD products. Currently we derive a greater proportion of our revenue from PLD products than FPGA products. Consequently, our future success depends on our ability to introduce new FPGA and associated software design tool products that meet evolving customer needs while achieving acceptable margins. We are presently shipping our next generation FPGA product families that are critical to our ability to grow our FPGA product revenue and expand our overall revenue. We also plan to continue upgrading our customer design tool products and increase our offerings of intellectual property cores. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner, or if these products or future new products fail to achieve market acceptance, our operating results would be harmed. Fujitsu has agreed to manufacture our current and future FPGA products on its 130 nanometer and 90 nanometer CMOS process technologies, as well as on 130 nanometer and 90 nanometer technologies with embedded flash memory that we have jointly developed with Fujitsu. We have access to 65 nanometer CMOS process technology from Fujitsu. Fujitsu is our sole source supplier for our newest FPGA products, our new wafer fabrication processes and our planned future FPGA products. The success of our next generation FPGA products is dependent on our ability to successfully partner with Fujitsu. If for any reason we are unsuccessful in our efforts to partner with Fujitsu in connection with these next generation FPGA products, our future revenue growth would be materially adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents The introduction of new silicon and software design tool products in a dynamic market environment presents significant business challenges. Product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales. The market reception of new products depends on accurate projections of long-term customer demand, which by their nature are uncertain. Our future revenue growth is dependent on market acceptance of our new silicon and software design tool products and the continued market acceptance of our current products. The success of these products is dependent on a variety of specific technical factors including: • successful product definition; • timely and efficient completion of product design; • timely and efficient implementation of wafer manufacturing and assembly processes; • product performance; • product cost; and • the quality and reliability of the product. If, due to these or other factors, our new silicon and software products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results would be harmed. The potential impact of customer design-in activity on future revenue is inherently uncertain and could impact our ability to manage production or our ability to forecast sales. We face uncertainties relating to the potential impact of customer design-in activity because it is unknown whether any particular customer design-in will ultimately result in sales of significant volume. After a specific customer design-in is obtained, many factors can impact the timing and amount of sales that are ultimately realized from the specific customer design-in. Changes in the competitive position of our technology, our customer’s product competitiveness, our customer’s product strategy, the financial position of our customer, and many other factors can all impact the timing and amount of sales ultimately realized from any specific customer design-in. As a result, we may not be able to accurately manage the production levels of our new products or accurately forecast the future sales of such products, and, thus, our operating results could be harmed. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins, and net income. We generally warrant our products for varying lengths of time against non-conformance to our specifications and certain other defects. Because our products, including hardware, software and intellectual property cores, are highly complex and increasingly incorporate advanced technology, our quality assurance programs may not detect all defects, whether manufacturing defects in individual products or systematic defects that could affect numerous shipments. Inability to detect a defect could result in increased engineering expenses necessary to remediate the defect and also result in increased costs due to inventory impairment charges. On occasion we have also repaired or replaced certain components and software or refunded the purchase price or license fee paid by our customers due to product defects. If there are material increases in product defects, the costs to remediate such defects, or the costs to resolve warranty claims compared with our historical experience, our revenue, gross margins, and net income may be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our short-term and our entire long-term marketable securities portfolio is invested in auction rate securities, a number of which have been the subject of failed auctions which have adversely affected the liquidity of these securities. If auction rate securities continue to experience unsuccessful auctions, or if the credit rating of the auction rate security issuer, the third-party insurer of such investments, the issuers of the investments underlying the securities or credit default swaps, or Ambac Assurance Corporation (“AMBAC”) deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the auction rate security through an impairment charge. At December 29, 2007 we held $65.2 million in auction rate securities (with investment grades of AAA or AA), which are variable rate debt instruments with long-term stated maturities whose interest rates are reset through a Dutch auction approximately every 28 days. While the auctions have historically provided a liquid market for these securities, due to liquidity issues in global credit and capital markets, a portion of the auction rate securities held by us have experienced multiple failed auctions beginning in October 2007 as the amount of securities submitted for sale at the auctions has exceeded the amount of purchase orders. Our auction rate securities are collateralized by federally insured student loans, municipal bonds, corporate bonds, notes, high grade commercial paper, or bank deposit notes; however, $14.0 million of our long-term auction rate securities are exposed to risks associated with the sale of credit default swaps, pursuant to which the assets underlying the auction rate securities are exposed to claims in the event of default of certain debt instruments owned by third parties. A total of $44.9 million of our auction rate securities were part of unsuccessful auctions and as a result, these instruments are considered illiquid and have been reclassified as Long-term marketable securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Of this amount, $22.3 million of the auction rate securities in our portfolio were considered illiquid as of December 29, 2007, and, subsequent to December 29, 2007, an additional $22.6 million of the auction rate securities, all of which are backed by federally insured student loans or municipal bonds, were part of unsuccessful auctions and are thus considered illiquid. The remaining $20.3 million of auction rate securities included in Short-term marketable securities has been called, redeemed, or sold since December 29, 2007, and the proceeds are now being held as cash or cash equivalents. In addition, for $8.3 million of our auction rate securities held in Long-term marketable securities, AMBAC can, under certain circumstances, exercise a put option, which essentially replaces the auction rate security investment with preferred stock of AMBAC. If auction rate securities continue to experience unsuccessful auctions, or if the credit rating of the auction rate security issuer, the third-party insurer of such investments, the issuers of the investments underlying the securities or credit default swaps, or AMBAC deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the auction rate security through an impairment charge. Any of these events could have a materially detrimental effect on our liquidity and results of operations. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may limit our ability to maintain revenue levels and operating results during industry downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, to a greater extent than other less technology-driven industries. Our financial performance has periodically been negatively affected by downturns in the semiconductor industry. Factors that contribute to these industry downturns include: • the cyclical nature of the demand for the products of semiconductor customers; • general reductions in inventory levels by customers; • excess production capacity; • general decline in end-user demand; and • accelerated declines in average selling prices. Historically, the semiconductor industry has experienced periodic downturns of varying degrees of severity and duration. Typically, after such downturns, semiconductor industry conditions improve, although such improvement may not be significant or sustainable. Increased demand for semiconductor industry products may not proportionately increase demand for programmable logic products in general, or our products in 14 Table of Contents particular. Even if demand for our products increases, average selling prices for our products may not increase, and could decline. Whenever adverse semiconductor industry conditions or other similar conditions exist, there is likely to be an adverse effect on our operating results. Further, our ability to predict end-user demand is limited. Typically, the majority of our revenue comes from “turns orders,” which are orders placed and filled within the same quarter. By definition, turns orders are not captured in a backlog measurement at the beginning of a quarter. Accordingly, we cannot use backlog as a reliable measure of predicting revenue. Our wafer supply could be interrupted or reduced, which may result in a shortage of products available for sale. We do not manufacture finished silicon wafers and many of our products, including all of our newest FPGA products, are manufactured by a sole source. Currently, our silicon wafers are manufactured by Fujitsu in Japan, Seiko Epson in Japan, UMC in Taiwan and Chartered Semiconductor in Singapore. If any of our current or future foundry partners significantly interrupts or reduces our wafer supply, our operating results could be harmed. In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining wafers and in securing supply commitments from our foundries. At present, we anticipate that our supply commitments are adequate. However, these existing supply commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. Additionally, notwithstanding our supply commitments, we may still have difficulty in obtaining wafer deliveries consistent with the supply commitments. We negotiate wafer prices and supply commitments from our suppliers on at least an annual basis. If any of our foundry partners were to reduce its supply commitment or increase its wafer prices, and we cannot find alternative sources of wafer supply, our operating results could be harmed. Many other factors that could disrupt our wafer supply are beyond our control. Since worldwide manufacturing capacity for silicon wafers is limited and inelastic, we could be harmed by significant industry-wide increases in overall wafer demand or interruptions in wafer supply. Additionally, a future disruption of any of our foundry partners’ foundry operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, or other natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our wafer supply and could harm our operating results. If our foundry partners experience quality or yield problems, we may face a shortage of products available for sale. We depend on our foundries to deliver high quality silicon wafers with acceptable yields in a timely manner. As is common in our industry, we have experienced wafer yield problems and delivery delays. If our foundries are unable for a prolonged period to produce silicon wafers that meet our specifications, with acceptable yields, our operating results could be harmed. The reliable manufacture of high performance programmable logic devices is a complicated and technically demanding process requiring: • a high degree of technical skill; • state-of-the-art equipment; • the availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers and ultra-pure metals; • the absence of defects in production wafers; • the elimination of minute impurities and errors in each step of the fabrication process; and • effective cooperation between the wafer supplier and us. 15 Table of Contents As a result, our foundries may experience difficulties in achieving acceptable quality and yield levels when manufacturing our silicon wafers. Our products may not be competitive if we are unsuccessful in migrating our manufacturing processes to more advanced technologies or alternative fabrication facilities. To develop new products and maintain the competitiveness of existing products, we need to migrate to more advanced wafer manufacturing processes that use smaller device geometries. We also may need to use additional foundries. Because we depend upon foundries to provide their facilities and support for our process technology development, we may experience delays in the availability of advanced wafer manufacturing process technologies at existing or new wafer fabrication facilities. As a result, volume production of our advanced process technologies at fabrication facilities may not be achieved. This could harm our operating results. Our supply of assembled and tested products could be interrupted or reduced, which may result in a shortage of products available for sale. We do not assemble our finished products or perform all testing of our products. Currently, our finished products are assembled and tested by ASE in Malaysia, Amkor in the Philippines and South Korea, Fujitsu in Japan, AIT in Indonesia, UTAC in Singapore, and other independent contractors in Asia. If any of our current or future assembly or test contractors significantly interrupts or reduces our supply of assembled and tested devices, our operating results could be harmed. In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining assembled and tested products and in securing assembly and test capacity commitments from our suppliers. At present, we anticipate that our assembly and test capacity commitments are adequate. However, these existing commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. Additionally, notwithstanding our assembly and test capacity commitments we may still have difficulty in obtaining deliveries of finished products consistent with the capacity commitments. We negotiate assembly and test prices and capacity commitments from our contractors on a periodic basis. If any of our assembly or test contractors were to reduce its capacity commitment or increase its prices, and we cannot find alternative sources, our operating results could be harmed. Many other factors that could disrupt our supply of finished products are beyond our control. Because worldwide capacity for assembly and testing of semiconductor products is limited and inelastic, we could be harmed by significant industry-wide increases in overall demand or interruptions in supply. The assembly of complex packages requires a consistent supply of a variety of raw materials such as substrates, leadframes, and mold compound. The worldwide manufacturing capacity for these materials is also limited and inelastic. A significant industry-wide increase in demand, or interruptions in the supply of these materials to our assembly or test contractors, could harm our operating results. Additionally, a future disruption of any of our assembly or test contractors’ operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, or other natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our supply of assembled and tested devices and could harm our operating results. In addition, our quarterly revenue levels may be affected to a significant extent by our ability to match inventory and current production mix with the product mix required to fulfill orders. The large number of individual parts we sell and the large number of customers for our products, combined with limitations on our and our customer’s ability to forecast orders accurately and our relatively lengthy manufacturing cycles, may make it difficult to achieve a match of inventory on hand, production units, and shippable orders sufficient to realize quarterly or annual revenue projections. 16 Table of Contents If our assembly and test supply contractors experience quality or yield problems, we may face a shortage of products available for sale. We rely on contractors to assemble and test our devices with acceptable quality and yield levels. As is common in our industry, we have experienced quality and yield problems in the past. If we experience prolonged quality or yield problems in the future, our operating results could be harmed. The majority of our revenue is derived from semiconductor devices assembled in advanced packages. The assembly of advanced packages is a complex process requiring: • a high degree of technical skill; • state-of-the-art equipment; • the absence of defects in assembly and packaging manufacturing; • the elimination of raw material impurities and errors in each step of the process; and • effective cooperation between the assembly contractor and us. As a result, our contractors may experience difficulties in achieving acceptable quality and yield levels when assembling and testing our semiconductor devices. Our stock price may continue to experience large fluctuations. Historically, the price of our common stock has at times experienced rapid and severe price fluctuations that have left investors little time to react. The price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to a variety of company specific factors, including: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and investors; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by other companies; and • any developments that materially adversely impact investors’ perceptions of our business prospects. Our stock price has ranged from a low of $3.08 per share to a high of $6.80 per share for the fiscal year 2007. We may fail to retain or attract the specialized technical and management personnel required to successfully operate our business. To a greater degree than most non-technology companies or larger technology companies, our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. As a mid-sized company, we are particularly dependent on a relatively small group of key employees. Competition for skilled technical and management employees is intense within our industry. As a result, we may not be able to retain our existing key technical and management personnel. In addition, we may not be able to attract additional qualified employees in the future. If we are unable to retain existing key employees or are unable to hire new qualified employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate and therefore may fail to meet expectations. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate. Consequently, our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of analysts and investors. As a result of industry conditions and the following specific factors, our quarterly operating results are more likely to fluctuate and are more difficult to predict than a typical non-technology company of our size and maturity: • general economic conditions in the countries where we sell our products; • conditions within the end markets into which we sell our products; 17 Table of Contents • the cyclical nature of demand for our customers’ products; • excess inventory accumulation by our end customers; • the timing of our and our competitors’ new product introductions; • product obsolescence; • the scheduling, rescheduling and cancellation of large orders by our customers; • the willingness and ability of our customers and distributors to make payment to us in a timely manner; • our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume production at wafer fabrication facilities; • changes in manufacturing yields including delays in achieving target yields on new products; • adverse movements in exchange rates, interest rates or tax rates; and • the availability of adequate supply commitments from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. Conditions in Asia may disrupt our existing supply arrangements and result in a shortage of finished products available for sale. All of our major silicon wafer suppliers operate fabrication facilities located in Asia. Additionally, our finished silicon wafers are assembled and tested by independent contractors located in Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and South Korea. Economic, financial, social and political conditions in Asia have historically been volatile. Financial difficulties, the effects of currency fluctuation, governmental actions or restrictions, prolonged work stoppages, political unrest, war, natural disaster, disease or any other difficulties experienced by our suppliers may disrupt our supply and could harm our operating results. Export sales account for the majority of our revenue and may decline in the future due to economic and governmental uncertainties. We derive a majority of our revenue from export sales. Accordingly, if we experience a decline in export sales, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our export sales are subject to numerous risks, including: • changes in local economic conditions; • exchange rate volatility; • governmental controls and trade restrictions; • export license requirements and restrictions on the export of technology; • political instability, war or terrorism; • changes in tax rates, tariffs or freight rates; • interruptions in air transportation; and • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales offices. We may not be able to successfully compete in the highly competitive semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and many of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources than we do. The current level of competition in the programmable logic market is high and may increase in the future. We currently compete directly with companies that have licensed our technology or have developed similar products. 18 Table of Contents We also compete indirectly with numerous semiconductor companies that offer products based on alternative technical solutions. These direct and indirect competitors are established multinational semiconductor companies as well as emerging companies. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our future results will be adversely affected. We may have failed to adequately insure against certain risks, and, as a result, our financial condition and results may be adversely affected. We carry insurance customary for companies in our industry, including, but not limited to, liability, property and casualty, worker’s compensation and business interruption insurance. We also self-insure our employees for basic medical expenses, subject to a true insurance stop loss for catastrophic illness. In addition, we have insurance contracts that provide director and officer liability coverage for our directors and officers. Other than the specific areas mentioned above, we are self-insured with respect to most other risks and exposures, and the insurance we carry in many cases is subject to a significant policy deductible or other limitations before coverage applies. Based on management’s assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure against certain risks than to incur the insurance premium costs. The risks and exposures for which we self-insure include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, theft, patent infringement and some employment practice matters. Should there be a catastrophic loss due to an uninsured event such as an earthquake or a loss due to adverse occurrences in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. Changes in accounting for equity compensation will adversely affect our consolidated statement of operations and could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used equity incentives as a key component of employee compensation in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. The Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted changes to generally accepted accounting principles that require us and other companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives beginning in the quarter ended April 1, 2006. To the extent that these or other new regulations make it more expensive to grant stock options and other equity incentives to employees, we will incur increased compensation costs. We also have changed our equity compensation strategy to, among other things, issue predominantly restricted stock units rather than stock options, and this could make it more difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal controls over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our financial results and competitive position may suffer. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. However, we may fail to adequately protect this technology. As a result, we may lose our competitive position or face significant expense to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. 19 Table of Contents We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secrets. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving adequate protection. Claims allowed on any of our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Patents issued to us also may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Finally, our competitors may develop similar technology independently. Companies in the semiconductor industry vigorously pursue their intellectual property rights. If we become involved in protracted intellectual property disputes or litigation we may be forced to use substantial financial and management resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our industry is characterized by frequent claims regarding patents and other intellectual property rights of others. We have been, and from time to time expect to be, notified of claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. If any third party makes a valid claim against us, we could face significant liability and could be required to make material changes to our products and processes. In response to any claims of infringement, we may seek licenses under patents that we are alleged to be infringing. However, we may not be able to obtain a license on favorable terms, or at all, without our operating results being adversely affected. We face risks related to litigation. We are exposed to certain asserted and unasserted potential claims, including the pending patent litigation brought against us by Lizy K. John. There can be no assurance that, with respect to potential claims made against us, we could resolve such claims under terms and conditions that would not have a material adverse effect on our business, our liquidity or our financial results. We have been and may in the future be subject to various other legal proceedings, including, as discussed in greater detail hereafter, claims that involve possible infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights of third parties. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of litigation matters, and there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any litigation. Any such litigation could result in a substantial diversion of our efforts and the use of substantial management and financial resources, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Further, an adverse determination in any such litigation could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 