Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered before making an investment decision relating to our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Global economic conditions and uncertainty, as well as the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses, collectability of accounts receivable and supplier relationships, and ability to access capital markets. Our revenue and gross margin can fluctuate significantly due to downturns in the general economy or the semiconductor industry. These downturns are often severe and prolonged and can result in significant reductions in the demand for PLD and FPGA products in markets in which we compete. Global economic weakness or cyclical downturns have previously resulted from periods of economic recession, reduced access to credit markets, weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, weak end-user demand, excess industry capacity, political instability, terrorist activity, military actions, or general reductions in inventory levels by customers, and may cause a decrease in revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. Such economic conditions had a negative impact on our results of operations during much of 2009. Although business conditions improved in 2010, that trend may not continue. In addition, our relationships with our employees and suppliers and ability to access capital markets could be adversely affected. In addition, customer financial difficulties have previously resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our accounts receivable. Global economic and cyclical downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 12 A downturn in the communications equipment end market could cause a reduction in demand for our products and limit our ability to maintain revenue levels and operating results. The majority of our revenue (approximately 49% of fiscal 2010 revenue) is derived from customers participating in the communications equipment end market. In addition, during fiscal year 2009, the Company participated in the China 3G telecommunications network build-out by selling products used by two large telecommunication equipment providers (one of which was supported through distribution), which accounted for a combined 19% of our aggregate revenue. This is primarily due to strength in the wireless segment of the communications end market. For the 2010 fiscal year, the same two large telecommunication equipment providers accounted for a combined 12% of revenue. In the past, a general weakening in demand for programmable logic products from customers in the communications end market has adversely affected our revenue. In addition, telecommunication equipment providers are building networks for 4G networks in which we compete. Any deterioration in the communication end market, our ability to compete for new solutions in future telecommunications solutions (e.g. 4G networks) or reduction in capital spending to support this end market could lead to a reduction in demand for our products which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our customer design-in activity, and thus, future revenue growth is dependent on market acceptance of our new silicon and software design tool products and the continued market acceptance of our current products. Future revenue is inherently uncertain and could impact our ability to manage production or our ability to forecast sales. We face uncertainties relating to the potential impact of customer design-in activity because it is unknown whether any particular customer design-in will ultimately result in sales of significant volume. After a specific customer design-in is obtained, many factors can impact the timing and amount of sales that are ultimately realized. Changes in the competitive position of our technology, the customer's product competitiveness or product strategy, the financial position of the customer, and other factors can impact the timing and amount of sales ultimately realized from any specific customer design-in. We are presently shipping our latest generation FPGA, PLD and Programmable Mixed Signal product families that are critical to our ability to grow our overall revenue. We also plan to continue upgrading our customer design tool products and increase our offerings of intellectual property cores. Our future revenue growth is dependent on customer design-in activity, market acceptance of our new silicon and software design tool products and the continued market acceptance of our current products. The success of these products is dependent on a variety of specific technical factors including: • successful product definition;• timely and efficient completion of product design;• timely and efficient implementation of wafer manufacturing and assembly processes;• product performance;• product cost; • the quality and reliability of the product; and• ease of use. If, due to these or other factors, our new silicon and software products do not achieve market acceptance, or our current products do not maintain market acceptance, our ability to manage production levels or accurately forecast the future revenue, our operating results may be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully compete in the highly competitive semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and many of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources. The current level of competition in the programmable logic market is high and may increase in the future. We currently compete directly with companies that have licensed our technology or have developed similar products, including Actel Corporation (acquired by Microsemi Corporation in November 2010), Altera Corporation, and Xilinx, Inc. We also compete indirectly with numerous semiconductor companies that offer products based on alternative solutions such as ASIC, ASSP, microcontroller, analog, and digital signal processing (DSP) technologies. These direct and indirect competitors are established, multinational semiconductor companies as well as emerging companies. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our future results will be adversely affected.13 Our revenue and gross margin, including quarter over quarter, are subject to fluctuations due to many factors which makes our future financial results less predictable. Our operating results, including quarter over quarter, have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate. Consequently, our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of analysts and investors. Our revenue and gross margin may fluctuate due to product mix, inventory fluctuations at our distributor end customers, market acceptance of new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographical and market-segment pricing strategies, wafer, package and assembly prices and yields, overhead absorption, as well as provisions for warranty and excess and obsolete inventory. We have limited ability to foresee changes or the pace of changes in sales by product classification. In the past we have also experienced periods of decline in sales of our mainstream and mature products. If, in any period, sales of our mature and mainstream products decline and sales of new products do not increase at a rate that is sufficient to counteract this decline, then our total revenue would decline. In addition, as mature products typically generate a higher gross margin than mainstream or new products, a faster than normal decline in sales of mature products could adversely impact our gross margins. We also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain products, reflecting the effect of competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned production lines, costs associated with our customers unplanned demand to build inventory, and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. Further, our ability to predict end customer demand, our customers' end customer demand, and resale of our products by our sell-through distributors is limited. Typically, a significant amount of our revenue comes from “turns orders,” which are orders placed and filled within the same period. By definition, turns orders are not captured in a backlog measurement at the beginning of a quarter. Accordingly, we cannot use backlog as a reliable measure of predicting revenue. Currently Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited ("Fujitsu") is our sole source supplier of wafers for our newest FPGA and PLD products. We may be unsuccessful in defining, developing and identifying manufacturing processes for the new programmable logic products required to maintain or expand our business. As a semiconductor company, we operate in a dynamic environment marked by rapid product obsolescence. The programmable logic market is characterized by rapid technology and product evolution. Consequently, our future success depends on our ability to introduce new FPGA, PLD and associated software design tool products that meet evolving customer needs while achieving acceptable margins. We are presently shipping our latest generation product families that are critical to our ability to grow our overall revenue. We also plan to continue upgrading our customer design tool products and increase our offerings of intellectual property cores. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner, or if these products or future new products fail to achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be adversely affected. The Company and Fujitsu have entered into agreements pursuant to which Fujitsu manufactures most of our new products on its 130 nanometer, 90 nanometer and 65 nanometer CMOS process technologies, as well as on 130, 90 and 65 nanometer technologies with embedded flash memory that we have jointly developed with Fujitsu. Fujitsu is our sole source supplier of wafers for our newest FPGA and PLD products. The success of certain of our next generation products is dependent on our ability to successfully partner with Fujitsu or new foundry partners. If for any reason we are unsuccessful in establishing new foundry relationships for our next generation products, our future operating results could be adversely affected. To develop new products and maintain the competitiveness of existing products, we need to migrate to more advanced wafer manufacturing processes that use smaller device geometries. We also may need to use additional foundry partners. Because we depend upon foundry partners to provide their facilities and support for our process technology development, we may experience delays in the availability of advanced wafer manufacturing process technologies at existing or new wafer fabrication facilities. As a result, volume production of our advanced process technologies at fabrication facilities may not be achieved. This could adversely affect our operating results. The introduction of new silicon and software design tool products in a dynamic market environment presents significant business challenges. Product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales. The market acceptance of new products depends on accurate projections of long-term customer demand, which by their nature are uncertain. In order to secure new or additional wafer supply, we may from time to time consider various financial arrangements including equity investments, advance purchase payments, loans, or similar arrangements with independent wafer manufacturers in exchange for committed wafer capacity. To the extent that we pursue any such additional financing 14 arrangements, additional debt or equity financing may be required. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available when needed or, if available, will be on favorable terms. Any future equity financing will decrease existing stockholders’ equity percentage ownership and may, depending on the price at which the equity is sold, result in dilution. Export sales, primarily to the Asia Pacific region, account for the majority of our revenue and may decline in the future due to economic and governmental uncertainties. We derive the majority of our revenue from export sales. Accordingly, if we experience a decline in export sales, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our export sales are subject to numerous risks, including: • changes in local economic conditions;• exchange rate volatility;• governmental stimulus packages, controls and trade restrictions;• export license requirements and restrictions on the export of technology;• political instability, war, terrorism or pandemic disease;• changes in tax rates, tariffs or freight rates;• reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;• longer receivable collection periods;• natural or man-made disasters in the countries where we sell our products;• interruptions in transportation;• different labor regulations; and• difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales offices. We depend on distributors, primarily those that use the sell-through distribution model, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. The failure of our distributors to sell our products and otherwise perform as expected could materially reduce our future sales. We rely heavily on our distribution partners to sell our products to end customers, generate a majority of our sales, complete order fulfillment and stock our products. Our distributors also help us to provide technical support and other value-added services to end customers. During fiscal 2009, the Company embarked on a program to restructure its distribution channels, primarily in the Asia Pacific region, from a sell-in to a sell-through distribution model. The sell-in distribution model allows the Company to recognize revenue upon shipment to the distributor. In the sell-through distribution model, distributors have price protection and rights of return on unsold merchandise. Consequently, revenue is recognized upon resale to an end customer. We expect that the majority of our revenue in fiscal 2011 will be reported resale by our sell-through distributors. We depend on the timeliness and accuracy of these resale reports from our distributors; late or inaccurate resale reports could have a detrimental effect on our ability to recognize revenue and our ability to predict future sales. In addition, our distribution channels recently have experienced consolidation due to merger and acquisition activity in that business sector. Consolidation may result in our distributors allocating fewer resources to the distribution and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our primary sell-through distributors, Arrow Electronics, Inc., including Nu Horizons Electronics Corp., (a wholly owned subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc. USA), Avnet, Inc., and Weikeng (International and Industrial) Co. LTD made up 49%, 34% and 28 % of total revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At times, our sales are concentrated in a small number of distributors, which are in various international locations and of various financial strength. Financial difficulties, inability to access capital markets, or other reasons, may affect our distributors’ performance, which could materially harm our business and our operating results. Additionally, any reduction in sales efforts, failure to provide good customer service or any other failure to perform by our distributors as expected, could materially reduce our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and net income. We generally warrant our products for varying lengths of time against non-conformance to our specifications and certain other defects. Because our products, including hardware, software and intellectual property cores, are highly complex and increasingly incorporate advanced technology, our quality assurance programs may not detect all defects, whether manufacturing defects in individual products or systematic defects that could affect numerous shipments. Inability to detect a defect could result in increased engineering expenses necessary to remediate the defect and also result in increased costs due to inventory impairment charges. On occasion we have also repaired or replaced certain components or made software fixes or 15 refunded the purchase price or license fee paid by our customers due to product or software defects. If there are material increases in product defects, the costs to remediate such defects, net of reimbursed amounts from our vendors, if any, or to resolve warranty claims compared with our historical experience, may adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and net income. If our foundry partners experience quality or yield problems, we may face a shortage of products available for sale and our revenue or gross margin could be adversely affected. We depend on our foundry partners to deliver high quality silicon wafers with acceptable yields in a timely manner consistent with our safety stock inventory level and production plan. As is common in our industry, we have experienced wafer yield problems and delivery delays. The reliable manufacture of high performance programmable logic devices is a complicated and technically demanding process requiring: • a high degree of technical skill;• state-of-the-art equipment;• the availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers and ultra-pure metals;• the absence of defects in production wafers;• the elimination of minute impurities and errors in each step of the fabrication process; and• effective cooperation between the wafer supplier and us. As a result, our foundry partners may periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable quality and yield levels when manufacturing our silicon wafers. If our foundry partners are unable for a prolonged period to produce silicon wafers that meet our specifications with acceptable yields, or we do not have adequate safety stock in times of delivery delays, our operating results could be adversely affected. If our assembly and test supply contractors experience quality or yield problems, we may face a shortage of products available for sale. We rely on contractors to assemble and test our devices with acceptable quality and yield levels. As is common in our industry, we have experienced quality and yield problems in the past. The majority of our revenue is derived from semiconductor devices assembled in advanced packages. The assembly of advanced packages is a complex process requiring: • a high degree of technical skill;• state-of-the-art equipment;• the absence of defects in assembly and packaging manufacturing;• the elimination of raw material impurities and errors in each step of the process; and• effective cooperation between the assembly contractor and us. As a result, our contractors may experience difficulties in achieving acceptable quality and yield levels when assembling and testing our semiconductor devices. If we experience prolonged quality or yield problems in the future and we do not have adequate levels of safety stock inventory on-hand, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our financial results and competitive position may suffer. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secrets. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving adequate protection. Claims allowed on any of our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Patents issued to us also may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Finally, our competitors may develop competing technologies. If any of these events occur, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Companies in the semiconductor industry vigorously pursue and defend their intellectual property rights. We may be forced to pursue legal action to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. If we become involved in protracted intellectual property disputes or litigation we may be forced to use substantial financial and management resources, which could have an adverse affect on our operating results. 16 We face a number of patent infringement claims and may be subject to other intellectual property disputes, which could require us to spend a significant sum to defend and could cause losses. Our industry is characterized by frequent claims regarding patents and other intellectual property rights of others. We have been, and from time to time expect to be, notified of claims that we are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. For instance, we are exposed to certain asserted and unasserted potential claims, including the pending patent litigation brought against us by Lizy K. John, Stragent and SeeSaw, Intellitech and Intellectual Ventures I LLC and Intellectual Ventures II LLC, as described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, above. If any third party makes a valid claim against us, we could face significant liability and could be required to make material changes to our products and processes. In response to any claims of infringement, there can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully defend against the claims. Any such litigation could result in a substantial diversion of our efforts and the use of substantial management and financial resources, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may seek licenses under patents that we are alleged to be infringing; however, we may not be able to obtain a license on favorable terms, or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our wafer supply, which is sourced entirely from the Asia Pacific region, could be interrupted, could experience increased costs or could be reduced, which may result in a shortage of products available for sale or increased costs. We do not manufacture finished silicon wafers and most of our products, including all of our newest products, are manufactured by a sole source. Currently, our silicon wafers are manufactured by Fujitsu in Japan, Seiko Epson Corporation in Japan, United Microelectronics Corporation in Taiwan and GLOBALFOUNDRIES in Singapore. If any of our current or future foundry partners significantly interrupts or reduces our wafer supply, increases wafer costs, or if any of our relationships with our partner suppliers are terminated, our operating results could be adversely affected. In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining wafers and in securing supply commitments from our foundry partners. At present, we anticipate that our supply commitments are adequate. However, these existing supply commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. Additionally, notwithstanding our supply commitments, we may still have difficulty in obtaining wafer deliveries consistent with the supply commitments. We negotiate wafer prices and supply commitments from our suppliers on at least an annual basis. If any of our foundry partners were to reduce its supply commitment or increase its wafer prices, and we cannot find alternative sources of wafer supply, our operating results could be adversely affected. Many other factors that could disrupt our wafer supply are beyond our control. Since worldwide manufacturing capacity (and that of Fujitsu) for silicon wafers is limited and inelastic, we could be harmed by significant industry-wide (or our own) increases in overall wafer demand or interruptions in wafer supply, or periods of increased wafer prices. During periods of economic uncertainty, our foundry partners may reduce or restructure their operations which may also affect the availability and price of wafers, and adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, a future disruption of any of our foundry partners’ foundry operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our wafer supply and could adversely affect our operating results. Our supply of assembled and tested products, all from the Asia Pacific region, could be interrupted or reduced, which may result in a shortage of products available for sale. We do not assemble our finished products or perform all testing of our products. Our finished silicon wafers are assembled and tested by independent contractors located in Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and South Korea. Economic, financial, social and political conditions in Asia have historically been volatile. Financial difficulties, the effects of currency fluctuation, governmental actions or restrictions, prolonged work stoppages, political unrest, war, natural disaster, disease or any other difficulties experienced by our suppliers may disrupt our supply and could adversely affect our operating results. In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining assembled and tested products and in securing assembly and test capacity commitments from our suppliers. At present, we anticipate that our assembly and test capacity commitments are adequate; however, these existing commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. Additionally, notwithstanding our assembly and test capacity commitments, we may still have difficulty in obtaining deliveries of finished products consistent with the capacity commitments. We negotiate assembly and test prices and capacity commitments from our contractors on a periodic basis. If any of our assembly or test contractors were to reduce its capacity commitment or increase its prices, and we cannot find alternative sources, our operating results could be adversely affected. 17 Many other factors that could disrupt our supply of finished products are beyond our control. Because worldwide capacity for assembly and testing of semiconductor products is limited and inelastic, we could be harmed by significant industry-wide increases in overall demand or interruptions in supply. The assembly of complex packages requires a consistent supply of a variety of raw materials such as substrates, lead frames and mold compound. The worldwide manufacturing capacity for these materials is also limited and inelastic. A significant industry-wide increase in demand, or interruptions in the supply of these materials to our assembly or test contractors, could adversely effect our operating results. Additionally, a future disruption of any of our assembly or test contractors’ operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our supply of assembled and tested devices and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our quarterly revenue levels may be affected to a significant extent by our ability to match inventory and current production mix with the product mix required to fulfill orders. The large number of individual parts we sell and the large number of customers for our products, combined with limitations on our and our customers’ ability to forecast orders accurately and our relatively lengthy manufacturing cycles, may make it difficult to achieve a match of inventory on hand, production units, and shippable orders sufficient to realize quarterly or annual revenue projections. We may experience a disruption of our business activities due to the transition to a new Chief Executive Officer. On October 12, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors announced the appointment of Darin G. Billerbeck as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, effective November 8, 2010. We may experience disruption in our business activities as we transition to a new chief executive officer, and our relationships with employees, customers and suppliers could be adversely affected by these disruptions. In addition, our competitors may seek to use this transition and the related potential disruptions to gain a competitive advantage over us. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel and in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. We may fail to retain or attract the specialized technical and management personnel required to successfully operate our business. To a greater degree than most non-technology companies or larger technology companies, our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. As a mid-sized company, we are particularly dependent on a relatively small group of key employees. Competition for skilled technical and management employees is intense within our industry. As a result, we may not be able to retain our existing key technical and management personnel. In addition, we may not be able to attract additional qualified employees in the future. If we are unable to retain existing key employees or are unable to hire new qualified employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. We recently implemented a new enterprise-wide financial reporting system which may cause operating or reporting disruptions. In fiscal 2009, the Company initiated the implementation of an enterprise-wide financial reporting (“ERP”) system to improve processes, enhance the access and timeliness of critical business information and strengthen controls throughout the Company. We converted to this new system in October 2010. Many companies have experienced operating or reporting disruptions when converting to a new ERP system, including limitations on a company’s ability to deliver and bill for customer shipments, maintain current and complete books and records, maintain an effective internal control environment and meet external reporting deadlines. While we have not yet experienced any significant disruptions to our business, we may encounter some unexpected aspects of the conversion that cause difficulty in the new reporting system which could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and cash flows. We depend upon a third party to provide inventory management, order fulfillment, and direct sales logistics. We rely on a third party vendor located in Singapore to provide cost-effective and efficient supply chain services. Among other activities, these outsourced services relate to direct sales logistics, including order fulfillment, inventory management and warehousing, and distribution of inventory to third party distributors. If our third party supply chain partner were to discontinue services for us or its operations are disrupted as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our ability to fulfill direct sales orders and distribute inventory timely, cost effectively, or at all, would be hindered, which could adversely affect our business. 18 If our independent software and hardware developers and suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our contractual requirements, we may face a delay or shortage of the introduction of new products, or the support of existing products. We rely on independent software and hardware developers for the design, development, supply and support of IP cores, design and development software, and certain elements of evaluation boards. As a result, failure or significant delay to complete software or hardware under contract to deliver could disrupt the release of or introduction of new products, which might be detrimental to the capability of our new products to win designs. Any of these delays or inability to complete the design or development could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. Our entire long-term marketable securities portfolio is invested in auction rate securities, which at the time of purchase were investment grade and acquired within the guidelines of our then current investment policy. Subsequent to purchase, these auction rate securities were the subject of multiple failed auctions, which adversely affected their liquidity. If auction rate securities continue to experience unsuccessful auctions, or if the credit rating of the auction rate security or auction rate security issuer deteriorates, we may in the future be required to adjust the carrying value of the auction rate security through impairment charges, and any of these events could have a materially detrimental effect on our liquidity and results of operations. At January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, the Company held auction rate securities with a par value of $11.6 million and $24.1 million, respectively. The Company intends to sell its auction rate securities as markets for these securities resume or reasonable offers become available. At January 1, 2011, due to continued multiple failed auctions and a determination of illiquidity, the $11.6 million par value of auction rate securities held by the Company had an estimated fair value of $10.2 million and are classified as Long-term marketable securities. These auction rate securities are exposed to risks associated with student loan asset-backed notes. Such loans are insured by the federal government or guaranteed by the Federal Family Educational Loan Program. If we were to liquidate our position in these securities, the amount realized could be materially different than the estimated fair value amounts at which we are carrying these securities and there could be a materially detrimental effect on our financial results. An acquisition may harm our business, financial condition or operating results. We have made acquisitions in the past to execute on our business strategy which create uncertainty to our future operating results and cash flows. We may acquire products, technologies or businesses from third parties. An acquisition will require considerable management time, may divert time away from operations, require substantial cash resources, require us to incur or assume debt, and involve the issuance of the Company’s equity securities. The success of any acquisition requires the integration of products, technologies, personnel and administrative resources, and could result in departures of key personnel, equity dilution or acquisition of unknown liabilities. As a result, an acquisition could disrupt our operations and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We may have failed to adequately insure against certain risks, and, as a result, our financial condition and results may be adversely affected. We carry insurance customary for companies in our industry, including, but not limited to, liability, property and casualty, worker's compensation and business interruption insurance. We also insure our employees for basic medical expenses. In addition, we have insurance contracts that provide director and officer liability coverage for our directors and officers. Other than the specific areas mentioned above, we are self-insured with respect to most other risks and exposures, and the insurance we carry in many cases is subject to a significant policy deductible or other limitation before coverage applies. Based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure against certain risks than to incur the insurance premium costs. The risks and exposures for which we self-insure include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, theft, patent infringement and some employment practice matters. Should there be a catastrophic loss due to an uninsured event such as an earthquake or a loss due to adverse occurrences in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 