Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered before making an investment decision relating to our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.Currently, Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited ("Fujitsu") is our sole source supplier of wafers for our newest FPGA and PLD products. As a semiconductor company, we operate in a dynamic environment marked by rapid product obsolescence. The programmable logic market is characterized by rapid technology and product evolution followed by a slow ramp process to 12volume production. Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address the markets we serve. We work closely with foundries in our development of products meeting these market demands, and rely on the foundry to timely produce high quality products. We have entered into agreements with Fujitsu pursuant to which Fujitsu manufactures most of our new products on its 130 nanometer, 90 nanometer and 65 nanometer technologies. Fujitsu is our sole source supplier of wafers for our newest FPGA and PLD products. The success of certain of our next generation products is dependent on our ability to successfully partner with Fujitsu or new foundry partners. If for any reason Fujitsu does not provide their facilities and support for our process technology development, we may have difficulty timely and effectively developing new products until we can find a replacement supplier. Similarly, if for any reason Fujitsu discontinues manufacturing our new products (e.g. stop production on certain process technologies) we will have to switch to a new foundry. We may be unsuccessful in establishing new foundry relationships for our next generation products, or may incur substantial cost and manufacturing delays until we form a new relationship, each of which could adversely affect our operating results. In order to secure new or additional wafer supply, we may from time to time consider various financial arrangements including equity investments, advance purchase payments, loans, or similar arrangements with independent wafer manufacturers in exchange for committed wafer capacity. To the extent that we pursue any such additional financing arrangements, additional debt or equity financing may be required. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available when needed or, if available, will be on favorable terms. Any future equity financing will decrease existing stockholders’ equity percentage ownership and may, depending on the price at which the equity is sold, result in dilution. Additionally, a disruption of Fujitsu's foundry operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political or labor unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, or any other reason, could disrupt our wafer supply and could adversely affect our operating results. Our future revenue is dependent on programmable logic solutions. Customer design-in activity, and thus, future revenue growth is dependent on market acceptance of our new silicon and software design tool products and the continued market acceptance of our current products. Future revenue is inherently uncertain and could impact our ability to manage production or our ability to forecast sales. We face uncertainties relating to the potential impact of customer design-in activity because it is unknown whether any particular customer design-in will ultimately result in sales of significant volume. After a specific customer design-in is obtained, many factors can impact the timing and amount of sales that we ultimately realize. Changes in the competitive position of our technology, the customer's product competitiveness or product strategy, the financial position of the customer, and other factors can impact the timing and amount of sales ultimately realized from any specific customer design-in. We are presently shipping our latest generation FPGA, PLD and Programmable Mixed Signal product families that are critical to our ability to grow our overall revenue. We also plan to continue upgrading our customer design tool products and increase our offerings of intellectual property cores. Our future revenue growth is dependent on customer design-in activity, market acceptance of our new silicon and software design tool products and the continued market acceptance of our current products. The success of these products is dependent on a variety of specific technical factors including: •successful product definition;•timely and efficient completion of product design;•timely and efficient implementation of wafer manufacturing and assembly processes;•product performance;•product cost; •the quality and reliability of the product; and•ease of use.If, due to these or other factors, our new silicon and software products do not achieve market acceptance, or our current products do not maintain market acceptance, we may not be able to manage production levels or accurately forecast the future revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. We depend on distributors, primarily those that use the sell-through distribution model, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. The failure of our distributors to sell our products and otherwise perform as expected could materially reduce our future sales. We depend on our distribution partners to sell our products to end customers, generate a majority of our sales, complete 13order fulfillment and stock our products. Our distributors also help us provide technical support and other value-added services to end customers. Our sales could be adversely affected if our distribution partners do not continue to effectively sell our products and provide related services.We expect that the majority of our revenue in fiscal 2012 will be reported resale by our sell-through distributors. Our primary sell-through distributors, Arrow Electronics, Inc. including Nu Horizons Electronics Corp., (a wholly owned subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc. USA), Avnet, Inc. ("Avnet"), and Weikeng (International and Industrial) Co. LTD made up approximately 53%, 49% and 34% of total revenue for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We depend on the timeliness and accuracy of these resale reports from our distributors; late or inaccurate resale reports could have a detrimental effect on our ability to properly recognize revenue and our ability to predict future sales. In addition, our distribution channels recently have experienced consolidation due to merger and acquisition activity in that business sector. Consolidation may result in our distributors allocating fewer resources to the distribution and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our financial results.On December 31, 2011 our global franchise agreement with Avnet terminated. Revenue from Avnet made up approximately 17% of our total revenue for both years ended December 31, 2011, and January 1, 2011. We intend to serve the Avnet end customers through a network that includes a global distributor, regional distributors, manufacturer's representatives, and our direct sales team. If our end customers experience disruption in the supply of our products, or if our distributors and representatives are unable to provide technical support and other value-added services at least at historical levels, we may lose future sales and our financial results could be adversely affected. At times, our sales are concentrated in a small number of distributors, which are in various international locations and of various financial strengths. Financial difficulties, inability to access capital markets, or other reasons may affect our distributors' performance, which could materially harm our business and our operating results. Our success depends on our ability to rapidly develop and introduce new products. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.The programmable logic market is characterized by rapid technology and product evolution on some of the most advanced technologies. Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products which compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address the markets we serve. We continually design next generation products that enable us to offer our customers lower power, lower cost, and more innovative products to maintain our competitive position. These new products typically are more technologically complex than their predecessors, and thus have increased potential for delays in their introduction. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including timely completion and introduction of new product designs, achievement of acceptable prices for wafer, package, assemble and test costs, yields and market acceptance. Our development of new products and our customers’ decisions to design them into their systems can take as long as three years, depending upon the complexity of the device and the application. Accordingly, new product development requires a long-term forecast of market trends and customer needs, and the successful introduction of our products may be adversely affected by competing products or by technologies serving the markets addressed by our products. If we experience delays in the introduction of new products, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, new product introductions frequently depend on our development and implementation of new process technologies, and our growth will depend in part upon the successful development and market acceptance of these process technologies. Our products require technically sophisticated sales and marketing personnel to market these products successfully to customers. We are developing new products with lower power consumption, with smaller feature sizes, the fabrication of which will be substantially more complex than our current products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, our operating results will be harmed. Our new product development, process development or execution to design and bring to market products that offer lower power, lower cost with more innovation marketing and sales efforts may not be successful. Furthermore, our new products may not achieve market acceptance and price expectations for our new products may not be achieved which could significantly harm our business and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results.We may be unable to assimilate and integrate the operations, personnel, technologies, products, and information systems of SiliconBlue Technologies Ltd., APAC IC Layout Consultants, Inc., or future acquisitions, which may harm our business, financial condition or operating results. One element of our business strategy includes expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or 14technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our skilled engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. On December 9, 2011, we acquired SiliconBlue Technologies Ltd., a Cayman Islands exempted company ("SiliconBlue") which put us in a unique position in the mobile consumer segment of the programmable logic market. The purchase price, totaling $63.2 million was paid in cash. In addition, the Company recorded Goodwill of $43.9 million in connection with the purchase of SiliconBlue. The acquisition of SiliconBlue may result in revenue and gross margin fluctuations due to seasonality, increased operating expenses, inventory valuation volatility and a more competitive pricing environment. On July 15, 2011, we completed the purchase of Rise Technology Development Limited ("Rise"), a Hong Kong company, and its subsidiary, APAC IC Layout Consultants, Inc. ("APAC IC"), a Manila, Philippines based company engaged in engineering layout and design services, for approximately $1.0 million, which includes all assets and liabilities of the entity. This acquisition of Rise and APAC IC is part of our effort to improve our research and development and operations activities, reduce costs and streamline our supply chain for improved predictability and flexibility. In addition, the Company recorded Goodwill of $0.9 million in connection with the purchase of Rise and APAC IC. Acquisitions similar to SiliconBlue and APAC, or future acquisitions typically entail many risks and we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies or businesses. We may experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company’s technologies and product development as a result of: •volume production;•unanticipated costs and expenditures;•changing relationships with customers;•suppliers and strategic partners; or, •contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Acquisitions typically require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we have or may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from any of our historic or future acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. We are required under U.S. GAAP to test goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis and at any other time that circumstances arise indicating the carrying value may not be recoverable. At December 31, 2011, we had $44.8 million of goodwill. We completed our annual test of goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of 2011 and concluded that we did not have any impairment at that time. There is no assurance that future impairment tests will indicate that Goodwill will be deemed recoverable. The success of any acquisition, including Rise and APAC IC and SiliconBlue, requires the integration of products, technologies, personnel and administrative resources, and could result in departures of key personnel, loss of key customers, distributors or vendors, equity dilution or acquisition of unknown liabilities. Furthermore, our ability to predict seasonality, end customer demand, and our customers' end customer demand for SiliconBlue products is limited. As a result, an acquisition similar to SiliconBlue and APAC, or future acquisitions could disrupt our operations and may have an adverse effect on our 15business, financial condition or operating results.A downturn in the communications equipment end market could cause a reduction in demand for our products and limit our ability to maintain revenue levels and operating results. Historically the largest percentage of our revenue (approximately 44% of fiscal 2011 revenue) has been derived from customers participating in the communications equipment end market. In addition, during fiscal year 2009, the Company participated in the China 3G telecommunications network build-out by selling products used by two large telecommunication equipment providers, which accounted for a combined 19% of our aggregate revenue. This is primarily due to strength in the wireless portion of the communications end market. For the 2011 fiscal year, the same two large telecommunication equipment providers accounted for a combined 12% of revenue. In the past, a general weakening in demand for programmable logic products from customers in the communications end market has adversely affected our revenue. In addition, telecommunication equipment providers are building networks for 4G networks in which we compete. Any deterioration in the communication end market, our ability to compete in future telecommunications solutions (e.g. 4G networks) or our end customers' reduction in capital spending to support this end market could lead to a reduction in demand for our products which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. The consumer end market is characterized by rapid product obsolescence and requires that we have the right products at the right time for our customers to fulfill demand for products in the consumer end market. If we are unable to forecast demand for our products, or we don't have products to ship at the right time, our financial condition and results may be adversely affected. Our revenue from the consumer end market consists primarily of revenue from our products designed and used in a broad range of products including flat panel displays, DVD players and recorders, digital cameras and camcorders, gaming consoles, set-top boxes, and smart handheld devices is characterized by rapidly changing market requirements and products. Our success in this market will depend principally on our ability to: •meet the market windows for consumer products;•to predict technology and market trends;•to develop products on a timely basis;•avoid cancellations or delay of products; Any of the foregoing problems could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Global economic conditions and uncertainty, as well as the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses, collectability of accounts receivable, supplier relationships, and ability to access capital markets. Our revenue and gross margin can fluctuate significantly due to downturns in the general economy or the semiconductor industry. These downturns are often severe and prolonged and can result in significant reductions in the demand for PLD and FPGA products in markets in which we compete. Global economic weakness or cyclical downturns have previously resulted from periods of economic recession, reduced access to credit markets, weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, weak end-user demand, excess industry capacity, political instability, government fiscal policy, sovereign debt, terrorist activity, military actions, or general reductions in inventory levels by customers, and may cause a decrease in revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, our relationships with our suppliers and our ability to access capital markets could be adversely affected. In addition, customer financial difficulties have previously resulted and could in the future result in, increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our accounts receivable. Global economic and cyclical downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. Because of our international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions and tax policies of various jurisdictions and other business risks associated with conducting operations outside of the U.S. which could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our U.S. operations, we have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our operational centers in the Philippines and Singapore, and our research and 16development sites in China, India and the Philippines. In connection with the restructuring we announced in 2011 our international operations grew as we relocated certain operational, design, and administrative functions outside the U.S. All of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for IP, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. Adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business.We may not be able to compete successfully in the highly competitive semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and many of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources. The current level of competition in the programmable logic market is high and may increase in the future. We currently compete directly with companies that have licensed our technology or have developed similar products, including Altera Corporation, and Xilinx, Inc. We also compete indirectly with numerous semiconductor companies that offer products based on alternative solutions such as ASIC, ASSP, microcontroller, analog, and digital signal processing (DSP) technologies. These direct and indirect competitors are established, multinational semiconductor companies as well as emerging companies. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our future results will be adversely affected.Our revenue and gross margin are subject to fluctuations, including quarter over quarter, due to many factors, which make our future financial results difficult to predict. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate, including quarter over quarter fluctuations. Consequently, our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of analysts and investors. Our revenue and gross margin may fluctuate due to product mix, seasonality, inventory fluctuations at our distributor end customers, market acceptance of new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographical and market-segment pricing strategies, wafer, package and assembly prices and yields, overhead absorption, as well as provisions for warranty and excess and obsolete inventory. We have limited ability to foresee changes or the pace of change in sales by product classification. In the past we have also experienced periods of decline in sales of our mainstream and mature products. If, in any period, sales of our mature and mainstream products decline and sales of new products do not increase at a rate that is sufficient to counteract this decline, then our total revenue would decline. In addition, as mature products typically generate a higher gross margin than mainstream or new products, a faster than normal decline in sales of mature products could adversely impact our gross margins. We also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain products or end markets, reflecting the effect of competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned production lines, costs associated with our customers' unplanned demand to build inventory, and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. Further, our ability to predict seasonality, end customer demand, our customers' end customer demand, and resale of our products by our sell-through distributors is limited. Typically, a significant amount of our revenue comes from “turns orders,” which are orders placed and filled within the same period. By definition, turns orders are not captured in a backlog measurement at the beginning of a quarter. Accordingly, we cannot use backlog as a reliable measure for predicting revenue. Foreign sales, primarily in the Asia Pacific region, account for the majority of our revenue and may decline in the future due to economic and governmental uncertainties. We derive the majority of our revenue from sales outside of the United States. Accordingly, if we experience a decline in foreign sales, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our foreign sales are subject to numerous risks, including: •changes in local economic conditions;•exchange rate volatility;•governmental stimulus packages, controls and trade restrictions;•export license requirements and restrictions on the use of technology;•political instability, war, terrorism or pandemic disease;17•changes in tax rates, tariffs or freight rates;•reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;•longer receivable collection periods;•natural or man-made disasters in the countries where we sell our products;•interruptions in transportation;•different labor regulations; and•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales offices.Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and net income. We generally warrant our products for varying lengths of time against non-conformance to our specifications and certain other defects. Because our products, including hardware, software and intellectual property cores, are highly complex and increasingly incorporate advanced technology, our quality assurance programs may not detect all defects, whether manufacturing defects in individual products or systematic defects that could affect numerous shipments. Inability to detect a defect could result in increased engineering expenses necessary to remediate the defect and also result in increased costs due to inventory impairment charges. On occasion we have also repaired or replaced certain components or made software fixes or refunded the purchase price or license fee paid by our customers due to product or software defects. If there are material increases in product defects, the costs to remediate such defects, net of reimbursed amounts from our vendors, if any, or to resolve warranty claims compared with our historical experience, may adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and net income. We may experience a disruption of our business activities related to the successful execution of the 2011 restructuring plan. During 2011, our Board of Directors adopted a restructuring plan (the “2011 restructuring plan”) to more efficiently implement our product development strategy and to better align our corporate strategy with the our sales resources to reduce development and operational costs and to streamline our supply chain for improved predictability and flexibility. Part of the 2011 restructuring plan includes extending silicon development capabilities and planning and logistics activities by locating personnel in Manila, Philippines. We expect this to initially increase certain supply chain and research and development costs until we complete the transition. During the third quarter of 2011, we incurred restructuring costs related to outsourcing certain non-core IT services. We may experience disruption in our business activities as we execute our 2011 restructuring plan, and our relationships with employees, customers and suppliers could be adversely affected by these disruptions. We expect to complete the 2011 restructuring plan by the first quarter of 2012. If we are unable to successfully complete our 2011 restructuring plan, our future results will be adversely affected.If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our financial results and competitive position may suffer. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secrets. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving adequate protection. Claims allowed on any of our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Patents issued to us also may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Finally, our competitors may develop competing technologies. If any of these events occur, our competitive position could be adversely affected.Companies in the semiconductor industry vigorously pursue and defend their intellectual property rights. We may be forced to pursue legal action to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. If we become involved in protracted intellectual property disputes or litigation, we may be forced to use substantial financial and management resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We face a number of patent infringement claims and may be subject to other intellectual property disputes, which could require us to spend a significant sum to defend and could cause losses. Our industry is characterized by increasingly frequent claims regarding patents and other intellectual property rights of others. We have been, and from time to time expect to be, notified of claims that we are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. For instance, we are exposed to certain asserted and unasserted potential claims, including the pending patent litigation brought against us by Lizy K. John, and Intellectual Ventures I LLC and Intellectual Ventures II LLC as described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, below. If any third party makes a valid claim against us, we could face significant liability and could be required to make material changes to our products and processes. In response to claims of infringement, we have incurred legal costs and committed management resources, and there can be no assurance that we would be successful 18in our defense against the claims. Any such litigation could result in a substantial diversion of management and financial resources, including legal costs incurred to defend claims, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may seek licenses under patents that we are alleged to be infringing; however, we may not be able to obtain a license on favorable terms, or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results.If our foundry partners and assembly and test contractors experience quality or yield problems, we may face a shortage of products available for sale and our revenue or gross margin could be adversely affected. We depend on our foundry partners to deliver high quality silicon wafers with acceptable yields in a timely manner consistent with our safety stock inventory level and production plan. In addition, we rely on assembly and test contractors to assemble and test our devices with acceptable quality and yield levels. As is common in our industry, we have experienced wafer and device yield problems, quality or delivery delays in the past. The reliable manufacture of silicon wafers and the assembly and test of high performance programmable logic devices are complicated and technically demanding process requiring: •a high degree of technical skill;•state-of-the-art equipment;•the availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, gold and copper;•our ability to successfully replace gold with copper for assembled devices beginning in the second half of 2012;•the absence of defects in production wafers and assembly and packaging manufacturing;•the elimination of minute impurities and errors in each step of the fabrication, assembly and test process; and•effective cooperation between the foundry partners, and assembly and test contractors and us.As a result, our foundry partners and or assembly and test contractors may periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable quality and yield levels in manufacturing, assembling and testing our products. If we experience prolonged quality or yield problems in the future and we do not have adequate levels of safety stock inventory on-hand, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our wafer supply, which is sourced entirely from the Asia Pacific region, could be interrupted or reduced or, could experience increased costs, which may result in a shortage of products available for sale or increased costs. We do not internally manufacture finished silicon wafers and most of our products, including all of our newest products, are manufactured by a sole source. Currently, our silicon wafers are manufactured by Fujitsu in Japan, Seiko Epson Corporation in Japan, United Microelectronics Corporation in Taiwan, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. in Taiwan, and GLOBALFOUNDRIES in Singapore. If any of our current or future foundry partners significantly interrupts or reduces our wafer supply, increases wafer costs, or if any of our relationships with our partner suppliers is terminated, our operating results could be adversely affected. At present, we believe that our supply commitments are adequate. However, these existing supply commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. Additionally, notwithstanding our supply commitments, we may still have difficulty in obtaining wafer deliveries consistent with the supply commitments. We negotiate wafer prices and supply commitments from our suppliers on at least an annual basis. If any of our foundry partners were to reduce its supply commitment or increase its wafer prices, and we cannot find alternative sources of wafer supply, our operating results could be adversely affected. Many other factors that could disrupt our wafer supply are beyond our control. Since worldwide manufacturing capacity for silicon wafers is limited and inelastic, we could be harmed by significant industry-wide increases in overall wafer demand or interruptions in wafer supply, or periods of increased wafer prices. During periods of economic uncertainty, our foundry partners may reduce or restructure their operations which may also affect the availability and price of wafers, and adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, a future disruption of any of our foundry partners’ foundry operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our wafer supply and could adversely affect our operating results. Our supply of assembled and tested products, all from the Asia Pacific region, could be interrupted, could experience increased costs or could be reduced, which may result in a shortage of products available for sale or increased costs. 19We do not assemble our finished products or perform all testing of our products. Our finished silicon wafers are assembled and tested by independent contractors located in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and South Korea. Economic, financial, social and political conditions in Asia have historically been volatile. Financial difficulties, the effects of currency fluctuation, governmental actions or restrictions, prolonged work stoppages, political unrest, war, natural disaster, cost of converting to more copper content, cost of assembly materials such as gold and copper, disease or any other difficulties experienced by our suppliers may disrupt our supply and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may soon require us to report on “conflict materials” used in our products and the due diligence plan we put in place to track whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in certain of our products. In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining assembled and tested products and in securing assembly and test capacity commitments from our suppliers. At present, we anticipate that our assembly and test capacity commitments are adequate; however, these existing commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. Additionally, notwithstanding our assembly and test capacity commitments, we may still have difficulty in obtaining deliveries of finished products consistent with the capacity commitments. We negotiate assembly and test prices and capacity commitments from our contractors on a periodic basis. If any of our assembly or test contractors were to reduce its capacity commitment or increase its prices, and we cannot find alternative sources, our operating results could be adversely affected. Many other factors that could disrupt our supply of finished products are beyond our control. Because worldwide capacity for assembly and testing of semiconductor products is limited and inelastic, we could be harmed by significant industry-wide increases in overall demand or interruptions in supply. The assembly of complex packages requires a consistent supply of a variety of raw materials such as substrates, lead frames, gold, copper and mold compound. A significant industry-wide increase in demand, or interruptions in the supply of these materials to our assembly or test contractors, could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, a future disruption of any of our assembly or test contractors’ operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, flooding, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our supply of assembled and tested devices and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our quarterly revenue levels may be affected to a significant extent by our ability to match inventory and current production mix with the product mix required to fulfill orders. The large number of individual parts we sell and the large number of customers for our products, combined with limitations on our and our customers’ ability to forecast orders accurately and our relatively lengthy manufacturing cycles, may make it difficult to achieve a match of inventory on hand, production units, and shippable orders sufficient to realize quarterly or annual revenue projections. We rely on information technology systems to manage our business. Failure of these systems to function properly or our failure to control unauthorized access to our systems may cause operating or reporting disruptions. The failure of these systems to function properly could result in business disruption.We rely in part on various information technology ("IT") systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly make changes to improve them as necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. These systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. While we have not yet experienced any significant disruptions to our business, we may encounter some unexpected aspects of the conversion, outsourcing, or new systems implementations that cause difficulty in the new reporting system which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.Our legal organizational structure is complex, which could result in unanticipated unfavorable tax or other consequences including our ability to maintain or forecast a competitive corporate tax rate, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On December 31, 2011, we began to implement a global tax structure to more effectively align our corporate structure and transaction flows with our geographic business operations including responsibility for sales and purchasing activities. We have numerous sales offices in foreign locations, operational centers in the Philippines and Singapore, and research and development sites in China, India and the Philippines. Revenues from foreign regions account for over 80% of all revenue. In addition, the large majority of our suppliers are located in the Asia Pacific region. Based on these factors we have created new and realigned existing legal entities, intercompany sales of rights to intellectual property, inventory and fixed assets across different tax jurisdictions, and implemented cost-sharing and intellectual property licensing and royalty agreements between 20our U.S. and low cost tax jurisdictions. We currently operate legal entities in countries where we conduct manufacturing, design, and sales operations around the world. In some countries, we maintain multiple entities for tax or other purposes. Changes in tax laws, regulations, and related interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot give any assurance as to what taxes we pay or the ability to estimate our future effective tax rate because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. As a result, our actual effective tax rate, or taxes paid may vary materially from our expectations. Changes in tax laws, regulations, and related interpretations in the countries in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results.If our independent software and hardware developers and suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our contractual requirements, we may face a delay in the introduction of new products, a shortage of new or existing products, or a lack of support for new or existing products. We rely on independent software and hardware developers for the design, development, supply and support of intellectual property cores, design and development software, and certain elements of evaluation boards. As a result, failure or significant delay to complete software or hardware under contract to deliver could disrupt the release of or introduction of new or existing products, which might be detrimental to the capability of our new products to win designs. Any of these delays or inability to complete the design or development could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. We depend upon a third party to provide inventory management, order fulfillment, and direct sales logistics. We rely on a third party vendor located in Singapore to provide cost-effective and efficient supply chain services. Among other activities, these outsourced services relate to direct sales logistics, including order fulfillment, inventory management and warehousing, and distribution of inventory to third party distributors. If our third party supply chain partner were to discontinue services for us or its operations are disrupted as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our ability to fulfill direct sales orders and distribute inventory timely, cost effectively, or at all, would be hindered, which could adversely affect our business. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could materially adversely affect us. We typically sell our products pursuant to individual purchase orders. We generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers or minimum purchase requirements except that orders generally must be for standard pack quantities. Generally, our customers may cancel orders more than 30 days prior to shipment without incurring significant fees. We base our inventory levels on customers' estimates of demand for their products, which may not accurately predict the quantity or type of our products that our customers will want in the future or ultimately end up purchasing. Our ability to forecast demand is even further complicated when we sell indirectly through distributors, as our forecasts for demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. Moreover, consumer end-markets are characterized by short product lifecycles, which can lead to rapid obsolescence and price erosion. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. We may build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, and the cancellation or deferral of product orders or overproduction due to failure of anticipated orders to materialize, could result in excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory and an adverse effect on gross margins. Factors that may result in excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of the value of our inventory, a reduction in the average selling price, and/or a reduction in our gross margin include: •a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products;•a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements;•a failure to accurately estimate customer demand for our older products as our new products are introduced. Because market conditions are uncertain, these and other factors could materially adversely affect our business. We may have failed to adequately insure against certain risks, and, as a result, our financial condition and results may be adversely affected. We carry insurance customary for companies in our industry, including, but not limited to, liability, property and casualty, worker's compensation and business interruption insurance. We also insure our employees for basic medical expenses. In 21addition, we have insurance contracts that provide director and officer liability coverage for our directors and officers. Other than the specific areas mentioned above, we are self-insured with respect to most other risks and exposures, and the insurance we carry in many cases is subject to a significant policy deductible or other limitation before coverage applies. Based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure against certain risks than to incur the insurance premium costs. The risks and exposures for which we self-insure include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, theft, patent infringement and some employment practice matters. Should there be a catastrophic loss due to an uninsured event such as an earthquake or a loss due to adverse occurrences in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. 22Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None.