Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 0.94% of total loans outstanding and 104% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2008. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2008, may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. We may be required to build reserves, thus reducing earnings. Certain interest rate movements may hurt our earnings. During 2007, short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) rose from historically low levels, while longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) did not. This “flattening” of the interest yield curve had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which reduced our profitability in 2007. In 2008, short-term rates fell during the last quarter of the year at an unprecedented pace. This rapid decline in rates at the end of 2008 decreased yields on certain types of lending. This downward pressure on loan yields generally was not matched by the same amount of decline in interest rates paid on funding sources such as deposits and advances due to market and contractual conditions. These rapid changes in interest rates negatively affected margins in 2008. Our increased emphasis on commercial and construction lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2008, our loan portfolio consisted of $236.4 million, or 43.1%, of commercial real estate loans, $57.6 million, or 10.5%, of construction and land development loans, $101.9 million, or 18.6%, of commercial business loans and $20.5 million, or 3.7%, of commercial equipment loans. We intend to increase or maintain our emphasis on these types of loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. 22 Table of Contents The limitations on executive compensation imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may restrict our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of the transaction, we agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. Subsequent to the issuance of the preferred stock, the President signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 into law, which provided more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses. To the extent that any of these compensation restrictions do not permit us to provide a comprehensive compensation package to our key employees that is competitive in our market area, we have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating our key employees, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The terms governing the issuance of the preferred stock to Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The terms of agreement in which we entered into with the Treasury provides that the Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the Securities Purchase Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal statutes that may occur in the future. The President signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which placed more stringent limits were placed on executive compensation, including a prohibition on the payment of bonuses or severance and a requirement that compensation paid to executives be presented to shareholders for a “non-binding” vote. We have no assurances that further changes in the terms of the transaction will not occur in the future. Such changes may place further restrictions on our business or results of operation, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as of June 30, 2007, we held 13.4% of the deposits in Calvert, Charles and St. Mary’s counties, Maryland, which was the third largest market share of deposits out of the 15 financial institutions which held deposits in these counties. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. If the value of real estate in Southern Maryland were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With most of our loans concentrated in Southern Maryland, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Because the majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in Southern Maryland, our success depends, to a significant extent, upon economic conditions in Southern Maryland. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Maryland could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. Our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. Although our common stock trades on OTC Electronic Bulletin Board, it has not been regularly traded. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to a more active trading market in our common stock or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: Ø actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; Ø changes in interest rates; Ø changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; Ø press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; Ø changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; Ø future sales of our common stock; Ø changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and Ø other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Community Bank of Tri-County is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Commissioner of Financial Regulation of the State of Maryland, its chartering authority, the Federal Reserve Board, as its federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Tri-County Financial Corporation is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of Community Bank of Tri-County. 24 Table of Contents The regulation and supervision by the Commissioner of Financial Regulation of the State of Maryland, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Tri-County Financial Corporation common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Maryland law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate law of the State of Maryland could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Maryland laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents 