Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our provision for loan losses increased substantially during the past year and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, especially due to our level of non-performing assets. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For 2009, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $3.5 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $1.1 million. Our non-performing loans increased significantly in 2009 from $4.9 million, or 0.7% of total assets, at December 31, 2008 to $19.3 million, or 2.4% of total assets, at December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to the weakened economy and the softening real estate market. If the economy and/or the real estate market continue to weaken, we may be required to add further reserves to our allowance for loan losses for these assets as the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining net loan balance, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain interest rate movements may hurt our earnings. Our largest component of earnings is net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s balance sheet is sensitive to changes in market and competitive interest rates. Changing interest rates impact customer actions and may limit the options available to the Company to maximize earnings or increase the costs to minimize risk. We do not have control over market interest rates and the Company’s focus to mitigate potential earnings risk centers on controlling the composition of our asset and liability holdings. In 2008, short-term rates fell during the last quarter of the year at an unprecedented pace. This rapid decline in rates at the end of 2008 decreased yields on certain types of lending. This downward pressure on loan yields generally was not matched by the same level of decline in interest rates paid on funding sources such as deposits and advances due to market and contractual conditions. These rapid changes in interest rates negatively affected margins in 2008. By the end of the third quarter of 2009, the trend of a decreasing interest rate spread reversed as decreases in the rates of the Company’s interest-bearing liabilities decreased at a faster rate than rates of interest earning assets. 24 In the future, if interest rates increase rapidly our interest earning deposit customers may be willing incur penalties to withdraw the funds. The Bank would either have to acquire deposits at higher rates or risk losing the deposits. If substantial amounts of interest earning deposits are lost, the Bank would need to use other available higher costing sources of funds. The increased cost of the Bank’s financing liabilities may have a negative impact on net interest income if interest earning assets adjust to current market rates at a slower rate than liabilities. Our increased emphasis on commercial and construction lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2009, our loan portfolio consisted of $293.0 million, or 46.9%, of commercial real estate loans, $62.5 million, or 10.0%, of construction and land development loans, $108.7 million, or 17.4%, of commercial business loans and $17.9 million, or 2.9%, of commercial equipment loans. We intend to maintain our emphasis on these types of loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business and equipment loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. The recent economic recession could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, real estate values, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area in particular. The national economy has recently experienced a recession, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. Our local economy has mirrored the overall economy. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in Southern Maryland. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy could result in significant increases in non-performing loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our earnings. The economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit, which would hurt our revenues. 25 The unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may result in changes in estimating collectability, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which could hurt our profits. Our commercial real estate, commercial business and commercial equipment loans increased $129.7 million, or 44.8%, from $289.8 million at December 31, 2007 to $419.6 million at December 31, 2009. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern from which to judge future collectability, especially in this period of continued declining and unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, these types of loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred historically with our residential mortgage loan or consumer loan portfolios. Our inability to retain deposits as they become due may cause us to rely more heavily on wholesale funding strategies, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating margins and profitability. A large percentage of our certificates of deposit have maturities of less than one year. The Bank has marketing and pricing initiatives to retain these certificates of deposit when they mature, however, there can be no guarantee that we will retain the deposits necessary to continue to fund asset growth at reasonable prices. If we are not able to maintain sufficient deposits, we will have to rely more heavily on wholesale strategies to fund our asset growth, which historically are more expensive than retail sources of funding. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that we have sufficient capital resources to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth could be materially impaired. Turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, United States and global financial markets experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a negative impact on the industry. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have implemented programs intended to improve general economic conditions. The U.S. Department of the Treasury created the Capital Purchase Program under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, pursuant to which the Treasury Department provided additional capital to participating financial institutions through the purchase of preferred stock or other securities. Other measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; regulatory action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful in restoring industry, economic or market conditions to their previous levels and that they will not result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including Tri-County Financial Corporation, are numerous and include (1) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (2) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, (3) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (4) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (5) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. 26 The limitations on dividends and repurchases imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may make our common stock a less attractive investment. On December 19, 2008, the United States Department of the Treasury purchased newly issued shares of our preferred stock as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program’s Capital Purchase Program. As part of this transaction, we agreed to not increase the dividend paid on our common stock and to not repurchase shares of our common stock for a period of three years. These capital management devices contribute to the attractiveness of our common stock and limitations and prohibitions on such activities may make our common stock less attractive to investors. The limitations on executive compensation imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may restrict our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program , we agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. Subsequent to the issuance of the preferred stock, the President signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 into law, which provided more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses. To the extent that any of these compensation restrictions do not permit us to provide a comprehensive compensation package to our key employees that is competitive in our market area, we may have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating our key employees, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The terms governing the issuance of the preferred stock to the Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The terms of the agreement we entered into with the Treasury provides that the Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the Securities Purchase Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal statutes that may occur in the future. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which placed more stringent limits on executive compensation, including a prohibition on the payment of bonuses or severance and a requirement that compensation paid to executives be presented to shareholders for a “non-binding” vote. We have no assurances that further changes in the terms of the transaction will not occur in the future. Such changes may place further restrictions on our business or results of operation, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition may make it more difficult for us to originate new loans and may force us to offer higher deposit rates than currently. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in lower interest rates earned on our loans and higher interest rates paid on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as of June 30, 2009, we held 15.7% of the deposits in Calvert, Charles and St. Mary’s counties, Maryland, which was the third largest market share of deposits out of the 14 financial institutions which held deposits in these counties. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. 27 If the value of real estate in Southern Maryland were to continue to decline, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Real estate values in Southern Maryland have experienced declines over the past two years. A continued decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A continued decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Because the majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in Southern Maryland, our success depends, to a significant extent, upon economic conditions in Southern Maryland. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Maryland could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. Our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. Although our common stock trades on OTC Electronic Bulletin Board, it has not been regularly traded. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to a more active trading market in our common stock or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: Ø actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; Ø changes in interest rates; Ø changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; Ø press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; Ø changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; Ø future sales of our common stock; Ø changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and 28 Ø other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Community Bank of Tri-County is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Commissioner of Financial Regulation of the State of Maryland, its chartering authority, the Federal Reserve Board, as its federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Tri-County Financial Corporation is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of Community Bank of Tri-County. The regulation and supervision by the Commissioner of Financial Regulation of the State of Maryland, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Tri-County Financial Corporation common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Maryland law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate law of the State of Maryland could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Maryland laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board. Proposed regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. The United States Treasury prepared a document, released in June 2009 titled, “FINANCIAL REGULATORY REFORM—A NEW FOUNDATION: Rebuilding Financial Supervision and Regulation,” that proposed significant regulatory restructuring of depository institutions. . The U.S. House of Representatives has passed financial regulatory reform legislation and the Senate is considering its own version. The Administration has also proposed the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency that would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the final legislation may differ significantly from the reform plan proposed by the President or passed by the House of Representatives, we cannot determine the specific impact of regulatory reform at this time. 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 