Item 1A. Risk Factors Interest Rate Risk Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest-rate spreads, meaning the difference between the interest rates earned on loans and investments and the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including: n The rate of inflation; n The rate of economic growth; n Employment levels; n Monetary policies; and n Instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on our loans and the receipt of payments on our mortgage-backed securities resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid. We originate residential loans for sale and for our portfolio. The origination of loans for sale is designed to meet client financing needs and earn fee income. The origination of loans for sale is highly dependent upon the local real estate market and the level and trend of interest rates. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn. While our commercial banking, construction and income property business lines are an increasing portion of our activities, high interest rates may reduce our mortgage-banking activities and thereby our income. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, we may need to write down our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expense and lower our earnings. Government Policies Our business may be adversely affected by changes in government policies. The earnings of banks and bank holding companies such as Sky Financial are affected by the policies of regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the money supply. Among the methods employed by the Federal Reserve Board are open market operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These methods are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits, and their use may also affect interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant affect on the operating results of commercial and savings banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The banking industry is highly regulated and changes in federal and state banking regulations as well as policies and administration guidelines may affect Sky Financial’s practices and growth prospects. 7 Table of Contents Credit Risk Our earnings and reputation may be adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage our credit risk. Originating and underwriting loans are integral to the success of our business. This business requires us to take “credit risk,” which is the risk of losing principal and interest income because borrowers fail to repay loans. Collateral values and the ability of borrowers to repay their loans may be affected at any time by factors such as: n A downturn in the local economies in which we operate or the national economy; n A downturn in one or more of the business sectors in which our customers operate; or n A rapid increase in interest rates. Competition Strong competition within our market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. We face competition both in originating loans and in attracting deposits. Competition in the financial services industry is intense. We compete for clients by offering excellent service and competitive rates on our loans and deposit products. The type of institutions we compete with include commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of our competitors offer a broader range of products and services than we offer. In addition, to stay competitive in our markets, we may need to adjust the interest rates on our products to match the rates offered by our competitors, which could adversely affect our net interest margin. As a result, our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas while achieving our investment objectives. Economy Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the local economies on which we depend. Our loan portfolio is concentrated primarily in the northern and central Ohio regions, the southeast Michigan region, the central Indiana region, the western Pennsylvania region and the northern West Virginia region. Our profits depend on providing products and services to clients in these local regions. An increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or continued increases in interest rates could weaken the local economies in which we operate. Weakness in our market area could depress our earnings and consequently our financial condition because: n Clients may not want or need our products and services; n Borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; n The value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline; and n The quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Integration Risk We may not be able to achieve the expected integration and cost savings from our ongoing bank acquisition activities. We have a long history of acquiring financial institutions and we expect this acquisition activity to continue in the future. Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of the financial institutions that agree to merge with and into Sky Financial and its affiliates and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that we expect will result from the merger activities. Achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. Additional operational savings are dependent upon the integration of the banking businesses of the acquired financial institution with that of Sky Financial, including the conversion of the acquired entity’s core operating systems, data systems and products to those of Sky Financial and the standardization of business practices. Complications or difficulties in the conversion of the core operating systems, data systems and products of these other banks to those of Sky Financial may result in the loss of clients, damage to our reputation within the financial services industry, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated by us and/or reduced cost savings resulting from the merger activities. Acquisition Risk We may have difficulty in the future to continue to grow through acquisitions. Any future acquisitions or mergers by Sky Financial or its banking subsidiaries are subject to approval by the appropriate federal and state banking regulators. The banking regulators evaluate a number of criteria in making their approval decisions, such as: n Safety and soundness guidelines; n Compliance with all laws including the USA Patriot Act of 2001, the International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act of 2001, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated under such Act or the Exchange Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and all other applicable fair lending laws and other laws relating to discriminatory business practices; and n Anti-competitive concerns with the proposed transaction. If the banking regulators or a commenter on our regulatory application raise concerns about any of these criteria at the time a regulatory application is filed, the banking regulators may deny, delay or condition their approval of a proposed transaction. 8 Table of Contents We have grown, and intend to continue to grow, through acquisitions of banks and other financial institutions. After these acquisitions, we may experience adverse changes in results of operations of acquired entities, unforeseen liabilities, asset quality problems of acquired entities, loss of key personnel, loss of clients because of change of identity, difficulties in integrating data processing and operational procedures and deterioration in local economic conditions. These various acquisition risks can be heightened in larger transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 