Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our provision for loan losses has been elevated during the last four years and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For 2012, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $2.5 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $1.9 million. Our non-performing assets, performing non-accrual loans and troubled debt restructures were $24.5 million, or 2.50% of total assets, at December 31, 2012. Additionally, loans that were classified as either special mention, substandard, doubtful or loss were $54.8 million at December 31, 2012. If the economy and/or the real estate market continue to weaken, more of our classified loans may become non-performing and we may be required to add further reserves to our allowance for loan losses for these assets as the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining net loan balance, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans, troubled debt restructures and foreclosed real estate. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by our regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our largest component of earnings is net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Changing interest rates impact customer actions and may limit the options available to the Company to maximize earnings or increase the costs to minimize risk. We do not have control over market interest rates and the Company’s focus to mitigate potential earnings risk centers on controlling the composition of our assets and liabilities. 23 Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to increase or decrease. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Our procedures for managing exposure to falling net interest income involve modeling possible scenarios of interest rate increases and decreases to interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Our increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2012, our loan portfolio consisted of $419.7 million, or 55.5%, of commercial real estate loans, $88.2 million, or 11.7%, of commercial business loans and $16.3 million, or 2.2%, of commercial equipment loans. We intend to maintain our emphasis on these types of loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss and require a commensurately higher loan loss allowance than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business and equipment loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flows of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Our residential mortgage loans and home equity loans expose us to a risk of loss due to declining real estate values. At December 31, 2012, $177.7 million, or 23.48%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, and $22.0 million, or 2.9%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans and lines of credit. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our levels of non-performing and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. The unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may result in changes in estimating collectability, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which could hurt our profits. Our commercial real estate, commercial business and commercial equipment loans increased $165.3 million, or 46.1%, from $358.8 million at December 31, 2008 to $524.1 million at December 31, 2012. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern from which to judge future collectability, especially in this period of continued declining and unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, these types of loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred historically with our residential mortgage loan or consumer loan portfolios. 24 Our asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We must use estimates, assumptions, and judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flows and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Our future growth may require us to raise additional capital, which will be dilutive to existing shareholders and could dilute our per share book value. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that we have sufficient capital resources to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders, which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth could be materially impaired. The cost of the capital we received from the Series C Preferred Stock will increase significantly if the level of our “Qualified Small Business Lending” does not represent an increase from our “baseline” level. The dividend rate on the Series C Preferred Stock we issued to the United States Department of Treasury (the “Treasury”) under the Small Business Lending Fund Program can fluctuate on a quarterly basis during the first 10 quarters during which the Series C Preferred Stock is outstanding, based upon changes in the level of “Qualified Small Business Lending” or “QSBL” by the Bank. Based upon the increase in the Bank’s level of QSBL over the baseline level calculated under the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement entered into in connection with the issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock, the dividend rate for the initial dividend period has been set at one percent. For the second through ninth calendar quarters, the dividend rate may be adjusted to between one percent and five percent per annum, to reflect the amount of change in the Bank’s level of QSBL. If the level of the Bank’s qualified small business loans declines so that the percentage increase in QSBL as compared to the baseline level is less than 10%, then the dividend rate payable on the Series C Preferred Stock would increase. For the tenth calendar quarter through four and one half years after issuance, the dividend rate will be fixed between one percent and seven percent based upon the increase in QSBL as compared to the baseline. After four and one half years from issuance, the dividend rate will increase to nine percent. In addition, beginning on January 1, 2014, and on all Series C Preferred Stock dividend payment dates thereafter ending on April 1, 2016, the Company will be required to pay to the Secretary of the Treasury, on each share of Series C Preferred Stock outstanding, but only out of assets legally available, a fee equal to 0.5% of the liquidation amount per share of Series C Preferred Stock. 25 Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition may make it more difficult for us to originate new loans and may force us to offer higher deposit rates than currently. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in lower interest rates earned on our loans and higher interest rates paid on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as of June 30, 2012, we held 20.0% of the deposits in Calvert, Charles and St. Mary’s counties, Maryland, which was the largest market share of deposits out of the 13 financial institutions that held deposits in these counties. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. If the value of real estate in Southern Maryland were to continue to decline, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Real estate values in Southern Maryland have experienced declines over the past few years. A continued decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A continued decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area, which is significantly dependent on federal government and military employment, as well as national and international economic conditions. Our marketplace is primarily in the counties of Charles, Calvert and St. Mary’s, Maryland and the neighboring communities. Many, if not most, of our customers live and/or work in those counties or in the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Because our services are concentrated in this market, we are affected by the general economic conditions in the greater Washington, D.C. and Southern Maryland area. Changes in the economy may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could decrease the demand for banking products and services generally and/or impair the ability of existing borrowers to repay their loans, which could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. A significant portion of the population in our market area is affiliated with or employed by the federal government or at military facilities located in the area. As a result, a downturn in federal government or military employment could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values, and could also negatively affect the Company’s profitability. During 2012, unemployment levels remained high and uncertainty for small and medium size businesses lessened the demand for lending. The impact on the Southern Maryland economy has been moderated by the presence of federal government agencies and defense facilities, but the possibility of large cuts to the defense budget hampered economic expansion in 2012 and the effect of the sequestration would negatively impact employment and potentially the ability of borrowers to make their required payments on a timely basis. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions and required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $2.7 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. 26 The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume and volatility. Although our common stock trades on OTC Electronic Bulletin Board, it has not been regularly traded. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to a more active trading market in our common stock or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: Øactual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; Øchanges in interest rates; Øchanges in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; Øpress releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; Øchanges in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; Øfuture sales of our common stock; Øchanges in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and Øother developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. Beginning in 2007 and through the present, the business environment for financial services firms has been extremely challenging. During this period, many publicly traded financial services companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance or prospects of such companies. We may experience market fluctuations that are not directly related to our operating performance but are influenced by the market’s perception of the state of the financial services industry in general and, in particular, the market’s assessment of general credit quality conditions, including default and foreclosure rates in the industry. While the U.S. and other governments continue efforts to restore confidence in financial markets and promote economic growth, we cannot assure you that further market and economic turmoil will not occur in the near- or long-term, negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the price, trading volume and volatility of our common stock. 27 We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination as noted in the Supervision and Regulation section of this Form 10K. The regulation and supervision by the Commissioner of Financial Regulation of the State of Maryland, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Tri-County Financial Corporation common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. In 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions will be reduced as well, and State Attorneys General will have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies have taken stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on operations. Federal bank regulators have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those required under the Dodd-Frank Act or that would otherwise qualify the Bank as being “well capitalized” under applicable prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual minimum capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. Additionally, on August 30, 2012, the federal banking regulatory agencies issued proposed rules that would implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. If adopted as proposed, Basel III and regulations proposed by the federal banking regulatory agencies will require holding companies and banks to undertake significant activities to demonstrate compliance with the new and higher capital standards. Compliance with these rules, which are still being analyzed, will impose additional costs on banking entities and their holding companies. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Maryland law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Maryland corporate law could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Maryland laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board. 28 We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and fund distribution. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we cannot control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those which result from their failure to provide services for any reason or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we provide our customers with the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us. Additionally, financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 