Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our provision for loan losses increased during the past year and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, especially due to our level of non-performing assets. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For 2010, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $3.9 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $3.7 million. Our non-performing assets, including troubled debt restructures, increased in 2010 from $31.8 million, or 3.9% of total assets, at December 31, 2009 to $40.6 million, or 4.58% of total assets, at December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to the weakened economy and the softening real estate market. If the economy and/or the real estate market continue to weaken, we may be required to add further reserves to our allowance for loan losses for these assets as the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining net loan balance, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans, troubled debt restructures and foreclosed real estate. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our largest component of earnings is net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s balance sheet is sensitive to changes in market and competitive interest rates. Changing interest rates impact customer actions and may limit the options available to the Company to maximize earnings or increase the costs to minimize risk. We do not have control over market interest rates and the Company’s focus to mitigate potential earnings risk centers on controlling the composition of our asset and liability holdings. 25 Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investment less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Our increased emphasis on commercial and construction lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2010, our loan portfolio consisted of $336.3 million, or 50.7%, of commercial real estate loans, $104.6 million, or 15.8%, of commercial business loans and $18.0 million, or 2.7%, of commercial equipment loans. We intend to maintain our emphasis on these types of loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business and equipment loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flows of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. The economic recession could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area in particular. The national economy has recently experienced a recession, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have negatively affected the performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions, including the Bank. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could further impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in southern Maryland. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our earnings. Continuation of the economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, which would hurt our revenues. 26 The unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may result in changes in estimating collectability, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which could hurt our profits. Our commercial real estate, commercial business and commercial equipment loans increased $100.0 million, or 27.9%, from $358.8 million at December 31, 2008 to $458.8 million at December 31, 2010. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern from which to judge future collectability, especially in this period of continued declining and unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, these types of loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred historically with our residential mortgage loan or consumer loan portfolios. Our asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We must use estimates, assumptions, and judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flows and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our inability to retain deposits as they become due may cause us to rely more heavily on wholesale funding strategies, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating margins and profitability. A large percentage of our certificates of deposit have maturities of less than one year. The Bank has marketing and pricing initiatives to retain these certificates of deposit when they mature, however, there can be no guarantee that we will retain the deposits necessary to continue to fund asset growth at reasonable prices. If we are not able to maintain sufficient deposits, we will have to rely more heavily on wholesale strategies to fund our asset growth, which historically are more expensive than retail sources of funding. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, which will be dilutive to existing shareholders and could dilute our per share book value. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that we have sufficient capital resources to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders, which may adversely impact our current shareholders. 27 Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth could be materially impaired. Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions will be reduced as well, and State Attorneys General will have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. The limitations on dividends and repurchases imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may make our common stock a less attractive investment. On December 19, 2008, the United States Department of the Treasury purchased newly issued shares of our preferred stock as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program’s Capital Purchase Program. As part of this transaction, we agreed to not increase the dividend paid on our common stock and to not repurchase shares of our common stock for a period of three years, without prior approval of the Treasury. These capital management devices contribute to the attractiveness of our common stock and limitations and prohibitions on such activities may make our common stock less attractive to investors. The limitations on executive compensation imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may restrict our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. Subsequent to the issuance of the preferred stock, the President signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 into law, which provided more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses. To the extent that any of these compensation restrictions do not permit us to provide a comprehensive compensation package to our key employees that is competitive in our market area, we may have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating our key employees, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The terms governing the issuance of the preferred stock to the Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The terms of the agreement we entered into with the Treasury provides that the Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the Securities Purchase Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal statutes that may occur in the future. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which placed more stringent limits on executive compensation, including a prohibition on the payment of bonuses or severance and a requirement that compensation paid to executives be presented to shareholders for a “non-binding” vote. We have no assurances that further changes in the terms of the transaction will not occur in the future. Such changes may place further restrictions on our business or results of operation, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 28 Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition may make it more difficult for us to originate new loans and may force us to offer higher deposit rates than currently. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in lower interest rates earned on our loans and higher interest rates paid on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as of June 30, 2010, we held 17.7% of the deposits in Calvert, Charles and St. Mary’s counties, Maryland, which was the third largest market share of deposits out of the 14 financial institutions that held deposits in these counties. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. If the value of real estate in Southern Maryland were to continue to decline, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Real estate values in Southern Maryland have experienced declines over the past few years. A continued decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A continued decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Because the majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in Southern Maryland, our success depends, to a significant extent, upon economic conditions in Southern Maryland. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Maryland could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $193,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $2.7 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. 29 The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. Our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. Although our common stock trades on OTC Electronic Bulletin Board, it has not been regularly traded. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to a more active trading market in our common stock or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: Ø actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; Ø changes in interest rates; Ø changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; Ø press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; Ø changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; Ø future sales of our common stock; Ø changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and Ø other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Community Bank of Tri-County is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Commissioner of Financial Regulation of the State of Maryland, its chartering authority, the Federal Reserve Board, as its federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Tri-County Financial Corporation is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of Community Bank of Tri-County. The regulation and supervision by the Commissioner of Financial Regulation of the State of Maryland, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Tri-County Financial Corporation common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. 30 Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Maryland law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate law of the State of Maryland could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Maryland laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and fund distribution. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we cannot control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those which result from their failure to provide services for any reason or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 