Item 1A. Risk Factors Our performance and future operations are affected by a wide range of risk factors. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on the market price of our common shares. We use our integrated Risk Management Framework to identify risks across all segments of the Company, evaluate those risks, and implement strategies designed to mitigate those risks. This process is further described under “Risks to Our Strategy” on pages 29 and 30 in our 2012 Annual Integrated Report, attached as Exhibit 13 and incorporated herein by reference. See “Forward-Looking Statements” earlier in this report. A discussion of the Company’s strategies to mitigate certain risks is included in our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2012 Annual Integrated Report, attached as Exhibit 13, on pages 31 and 32. Set forth below are the most significant risks and uncertainties that affect the Company and its businesses: Global demand for our products may differ from our expectations We have taken major steps to prepare for an anticipated increase in potash demand in future years. We have undertaken several key expansion and debottlenecking projects at significant capital cost to substantially increase our potash production capability. Some of these projects began to ramp-up operational capability in 2012 and the remaining projects will come on stream over the next several years. We estimate the future level of demand for our products and attempt to meet this anticipated growing demand by increasing our operational capability at certain facilities. Accurate estimates allow us to prevent either surplus inventory or missed sales opportunities. However, inaccurate estimates can lead to decreased profits. Reduced market demand can lead to underutilization of our production facilities. To the extent that we underutilize capacity, operating efficiencies decline, which negatively impacts our financial performance. If our estimates of future demand prove to be inaccurate, we could experience a lower return on investment due to lower profits. Our customers’ decisions regarding the purchase of our products are affected by variable market, governmental, economic and weather conditions. As a result, our customers’ purchasing decisions can be difficult to accurately predict. Farmers’ decisions about application rates for crop nutrients vary from year to year depending on a number of factors including, among others, crop prices, governmental actions, input costs, planting conditions and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. Therefore, the timing of customer purchases will vary each year, and fertilizer sales can be expected to shift between periods. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules, application decisions, and purchasing patterns. Increased competitive supply can create an imbalance between supply and demand. Generally, fertilizer products are bulk commodities characterized by minimal product differentiation within product categories. Consequently, the market for fertilizer is subject to competitive marketing pressures and cyclicality. An increase in the competitive supply of fertilizer that outpaces the growth in world consumption generally leads to price reductions; whereas, a supply shortage can increase prices as customers compete for available product. As in many commodity businesses, during periods of lower prices, there tends to be less investment in capacity expansion, while periods of higher prices typically lead to new supply projects and increased production. Commodity price cyclicality varies within the fertilizer industry. The nitrogen industry, for example, is generally characterized by many PotashCorp 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K 19 Table of Contents producers around the world, lower capital costs of entry and shorter construction times. As a result, nitrogen is prone to substantial price volatility. In contrast, quality potash deposits are rare and capital costs are very high. Based on our experience we believe that greenfield projects take at least 7 years to develop. Consequently, potash prices are less volatile than nitrogen prices. Transportation systems, including railcars, ocean freightliners, warehouse and port storage facilities are integral to the delivery of products to our customers. Transportation is a significant element of the sale of our products to customers. Accessing cost effective, timely and dependable transportation and port storage facilities is important in allowing us to supply customers near our operating facilities and around the world. Labor disputes, accidents, adverse weather or other environmental events, short term swings in demand for our products, increased shipping demand for other products, adverse economic conditions, or changes in credit markets and changes to rail or ocean freight systems could interrupt delivery or limit available transport services, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and could negatively affect our financial performance. Our international operations and investments are subject to certain risks. We have operations and investments in countries outside of Canada and the United States. Historically, these countries have had less stable political environments. We have a nitrogen production facility in Trinidad. In addition, we have significant investments in entities located in Chile, Jordan, China and Israel. Potash from our Saskatchewan operations for sale outside Canada and the United States is sold exclusively to Canpotex, which is an export marketing and sales company. A significant portion of Canpotex sales are to China, Brazil, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Japan. Global expansion opportunities with the lowest cost and the highest synergies are sometimes located in politically sensitive regions. Inherent business risks within Canada and the United States also exist in foreign countries and may be exaggerated by various risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties and costs associated with differences in culture, laws, regulations, foreign trade policies and fiscal policies; political and economic conditions; forced divestiture; selective discrimination; inconvertibility of funds; armed conflict; terrorist activity; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, social, political, labor and economic conditions. Water inflows in our potash mines negatively affect our performance. The presence of water-bearing strata in many underground mines poses the risk of water inflows. It is sometimes difficult to predict if or when water inflow will occur at our mines or mines in which we have an interest. We currently manage water inflows at our New Brunswick mine. Additional water inflows at our New Brunswick mine or other mines could increase the costs required to operate such mines, increase the risk of personal injury, lead to the abandonment of a mine. The risk of underground water inflows, as with other underground risks, is not insurable. Anti-trust laws to which we are subject may change. We are subject to anti-trust laws in various countries throughout the world. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. Changes in anti-trust laws globally, or the interpretation, administration or enforcement thereof, may limit our future acquisitions, or the operations of Canpotex and PhosChem. We have included additional information with respect to certain anti-trust matters in Note 27 of the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements in our 2012 Annual Integrated Report, attached as Exhibit 13. Strikes or other forms of work interruption could disrupt our business. Adverse labor relations or contract negotiations that do not result in an agreement could result in strikes, slowdowns or impose additional costs to resolve these disputes. These disruptions may negatively impact our ability to produce or sell our products. These disruptions may also impact our ability to recruit and retain personnel and could negatively affect our performance. Reputation damage could negatively affect our performance. Reputation loss is a negative consequence resulting from events and can have a detrimental effect on our performance. Reputation loss extends throughout all risk categories and may result in loss of investor confidence, loss of customer confidence, loss of confidence by our key suppliers or service providers, poor community relations and a decline in employee productivity. Reputation loss could also interfere with our ability to execute our strategies. Catastrophic events or malicious acts involving our products or facilities or downstream product mishaps may cause extensive personal injury and property damage. Our operations may be impacted by catastrophic events, such as severe weather, or intentional acts of destruction, which could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. Facilities could be damaged leading to a reduction in our operational production capacity. Employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury. The consequences of any such events could negatively affect our performance. Environmental laws and regulations impact our operations. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations. We incur significant costs and associated liabilities in connection 20 PotashCorp 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as air emissions, wastewater discharges, land use and reclamation and solid and hazardous waste management. Many of these laws, regulations and permit requirements are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Increased regulation, including that of greenhouse gases and other emissions from our operations, could increase our raw material, energy, transportation, and compliance costs and may have a negative effect on our performance. Our information technology systems are subject to security risks. We rely on information technology systems to conduct business, including internal and external communications, ordering and managing shipments of materials for our operations, coordinating transportation of our products and maintaining and reporting our results. Individuals or groups have targeted and may continue to target our information technology systems to attempt to access confidential information. The security measures designed to protect our information technology systems may be breached. A breach could result in unauthorized access to our confidential information such as strategic plans or processes. Our efforts to address these problems may not be successful. Inability to attract, retain, develop and motivate skilled employees could negatively affect our performance. Sustaining and growing our business depends on the recruitment, development, and retention of qualified and motivated employees. Although we strive to be an employer of choice in our industry, competition for skilled employees in certain geographical areas in which we operate can be significant and we may not be successful in attracting, retaining or developing such skilled employees. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. The inability to attract, develop, or retain quality employees could negatively impact the Company’s ability to take on new projects and sustain its operations, which might negatively affect the Company’s operations or its ability to grow. Our capital projects involve significant risks. We have undertaken significant expansion projects and may continue to undertake additional large projects in the future. The successful completion of such projects is subject to risks, including cost overruns, difficult construction conditions, shortages of qualified labor, and escalating costs of labor and materials. In 2012, we increased the estimate of the remaining cost to complete our New Brunswick project by approximately CDN$500 million, increasing total cost estimates for that project from CDN$1.66 billion to CDN$2.15 billion. Our capital projects may also be dependent on the availability and performance of the engineering firms, construction firms, equipment suppliers, and other third parties we retain. As a result, we may not be able to complete our projects on the expected terms, cost or schedule. In addition, we cannot be certain that, if completed, we will be able to operate these projects, or that they will perform, in accordance with our expectations. Any of these factors could impair our ability to realize the benefits we had anticipated from the projects. Other events may impact our operating results. The effects of recent adverse and uncertain economic conditions and changes in the credit and financial markets, including economic and political uncertainty around the world such as the European sovereign debt crisis, are difficult to accurately determine. As a result of these conditions, our relationships with customers and with external partners upon whom we rely may become less stable. Conditions in the credit markets could negatively affect the ability of our customers to pay or reduce their demand for our products. If our customers’ financial condition reduces demand for our products or our suppliers’ financial condition causes disruptions to our supply chain, our operating results may be negatively affected. Other events may also affect our performance including unexpected or adverse weather conditions; price volatility associated with feedstocks, including natural gas and sulfur; hedging activities; changes in capital markets and corresponding effects on our investments; changes in foreign currencies and exchange rates; unexpected geological or environmental conditions; legal proceedings; changes in, and the effects of, government policy and regulation, transportation and distribution regulations and actions affecting our transportation and sale of natural gas; inherent risks in industrial operations; inappropriate handling and transportation of some of our products by customers or carriers; and future acquisitions by the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 