Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If the Merger is not completed, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. On February 2, 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement, or Merger Agreement, to be acquired by Microchip Technology Incorporated, or Microchip, for $2.85 per share. On February 22, 2010, we entered into an amendment to the Merger Agreement, or Amendment No. 1, to be acquired by Microchip, for $3.00 per share. On March 8, 2010, we entered into an amendment to the Merger Agreement, or Amendment No. 2, to be acquired by Microchip, for $3.05 per share. In connection with Amendment No. 2, on March 8, 2010, we issued to Microchip 19,148,149 newly issued shares of our common stock, or 19.9 percent of our outstanding shares, for a price of $3.05 per share in cash. Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2 are referred to together as the Amendments. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement and Amendments, SST will merge with Sun Acquisition Corporation, a California corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Microchip, a Delaware corporation, or the Merger. Each outstanding share of our common stock, other than shares as to which dissenters’ rights have been properly exercised, will be converted into the right to receive $3.05, without interest. The closing of the Merger is subject to closing conditions, including approval of the Merger by the holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock represented and voting at a special meeting to be held to approve the principal terms of the Merger and adoption of the Merger Agreement and Amendments, as well as other customary closing conditions. Therefore, the Merger may not be completed in a timely manner, if at all. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant expenses related to the Merger that will not be recovered if the Merger is not completed. The Merger Agreement and Amendments contain certain termination rights and further provide that upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances we may be required to pay Microchip a termination fee of $10.3 million. Under specified circumstances, we may also be required to reimburse certain of Microchip’s expenses incurred in connection with the Merger, up to $2.0 million. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, our Board of Directors may not be able to find another party willing to pay an equivalent or better price than the price to be paid under the Merger Agreement and Amendments, and the market price of our stock may decline. The fact that there is a merger pending could harm our business, revenue and results of operations. While the Merger is pending, it creates uncertainty about our future. As a result of this uncertainty, customers may decide to delay, defer, or cancel purchases of our products pending completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. If these decisions represent a significant portion of our anticipated revenue, our results of operations and quarterly revenues could be substantially below the expectations of investors. In addition, while the Merger is pending, we are subject to a number of risks that may harm our business, revenue and results of operations, including: • the diversion of management and employee attention and the unavoidable disruption to our relationships with customers and vendors may detract from our ability to grow revenues and minimize costs; • we have and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the Merger prior to its closing; • the diversion of management and employee attention may make it difficult for us to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future opportunities; and • our current and prospective employees may be uncertain about their future roles and relationships with SST following completion of the Merger. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and operational personnel. We have been named as a party in several lawsuits arising from our proposed transactions with Technology Resources Holdings. We have been named as a party in several lawsuits arising from our prior proposed merger with Technology Resources Holdings, Inc., which are filed against SST, our officers, and current directors. The complaints are 14 Table of Contents substantially similar and allege, among other things, that such proposed merger was the product of a flawed process and that the consideration to be paid to our shareholders in connection with such proposed merger was unfair and inadequate. The complaints further allege, among other things, that our officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties by, among other things, taking actions designed to deter higher offers from other potential acquirers and failing to maximize the value of SST to our shareholders. The complaints further allege that Prophet Equity LP and SST aided and abetted the actions of our officers and directors in breaching their fiduciary duties. The complaints seek, among other relief, an injunction preventing consummation of the proposed merger, an order rescinding the proposed merger or any of its terms to the extent already implemented, costs and disbursements of the lawsuits, including attorneys’ and experts’ fees, and such other relief as the court might find just and proper. On February 9, 2010, the court entered an order consolidating the six actions and ordering plaintiffs to inform the court no later than March 2, 2010 which of the complaints filed to date should be deemed the operative pleading in the consolidated action. Plaintiffs have informed the court that they intend to file a consolidated, amended complaint, but have not yet done so. We believe these lawsuits are without merit and plan to defend against them vigorously. The expenses associated with such litigation and other related litigation may be significant and may harm our operating results. The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and defending SST, our officers and our current directors may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business. We also have certain indemnification obligations to officers and current directors arising out of such litigation. Global economic conditions have reduced demand for our products, adversely impacted our customers and suppliers and harmed our business. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a continuing risk to our business as consumers and businesses have postponed spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which have reduced the demand for our products. Other factors that could depress demand for our products in the future include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors have reduced demand for our products and could further harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including stocking representatives, distributors and other channel partners, to obtain credit to finance the operations of their businesses and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. Other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. Our operating results fluctuate materially, and an unanticipated decline in revenues may disappoint securities analysts or investors and result in a decline in our stock price. We have incurred net losses in each year since 2005. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly and our past financial performance should not be used to predict future operating results. Our recent quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, due to the following factors, all of which are difficult to forecast and many of which are out of our control: • the availability, timely delivery and cost of wafers or other manufacturing and assembly services from our suppliers; 15 Table of Contents • competitive pricing pressures and related changes in selling prices; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields and significant yield losses; • new product announcements and introductions of competing products by us or our competitors; • product obsolescence; • lower of cost or market, obsolescence or other inventory adjustments; • changes in demand for, or in the mix of, our products; • changes in demand for, or in the mix of, our licensees’ business as well as the mix between upfront fees and per unit royalties; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of products utilizing our SuperFlash® technology; • changes in the channels through which our products are distributed and the timeliness of receipt of distributor resale information; • exchange rate fluctuations; • general economic, political and environmental-related conditions, such as natural disasters; • changes in our allowance for doubtful accounts; • valuation allowances on deferred tax assets based on changes in estimated future taxable income; • difficulties in forecasting, planning and management of inventory levels; • unanticipated research and development expenses associated with new product introductions; • the timing of significant orders and of license and royalty revenue; • valuation of investments and long-term assets; and • the impact of the sub-prime mortgage crisis on our cash and other investments. If our reorganization and expense reduction efforts are not successful, our business will be harmed. We have incurred net losses in each year since 2005. As a result of negative global economic conditions and market instability, we are continuing to undertake actions to reduce our expenses. In December 2008, as a result of weakening demand caused by the rapid slowdown in the global economy, we announced the implementation of a global reorganization designed to reflect changes in anticipated levels of business. This action was taken to reduce costs of operations, to streamline the organization going forward, and to improve our focus on accelerating time-to-market of select new products. These efforts to reduce expenses and accelerate time-to-market may not be successful in returning our company to profitability or sustaining profitability over time. If our expense reduction efforts are unsuccessful, our operating results and business will be harmed. The selling prices for our products are extremely volatile and have historically declined during periods of over capacity or industry downturns. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical, characterized by periodic changes in business conditions caused by product supply and demand imbalance. When the industry experiences downturns, they often occur in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns are characterized by weak product demand, excessive inventory and accelerated decline of selling prices. Continued downward price pressure in the industry may reduce our operating results and harm our financial and competitive position. 16 Table of Contents Our operating expenses are relatively fixed, and we order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. Therefore, we have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Our operating expenses are relatively fixed, and we therefore have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. We have experienced such periods of revenue shortfalls in the past, including in the fourth quarter of 2008, and we were not able to reduce our operating expenses sufficiently to offset the revenue declines we experienced. Our future operating results will be harmed if our revenues do not meet our projections. We may experience revenue shortfalls for the following reasons: • sudden drops in consumer demand, such as we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009, may cause customers to cancel backlog, push out shipment schedules, or reduce new orders, possibly due to a slowing economy or inventory corrections among our customers; • significant declines in selling prices that occur because of competitive price pressure during an over-supply market environment; • sudden shortages of raw materials for fabrication, test or assembly capacity constraints that lead our suppliers to allocate available supplies or capacity to other customers which, in turn, harm our ability to meet our sales obligations; and • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders. In addition, political or economic events beyond our control can suddenly result in increased operating costs. In addition, we are required to record compensation expense on stock option grants and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan which substantially increases our operating costs and impacts our earnings (loss) per share. We incurred significant inventory valuation and adverse purchase commitment adjustments in 2007, 2008 and 2009, and we may incur additional significant inventory valuation adjustments in the future. We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate materially. The current negative worldwide economic conditions and market instability make it increasingly difficult for us to accurately forecast future product demand trends. The value of our inventory is dependent on our estimate of future average selling prices, and, if our projected average selling prices are over estimated, we may be required to adjust our inventory value to reflect the lower of cost or market. As of December 31, 2009, we had $36.9 million of inventory on hand, a decrease of $17.3 million, or 31.9%, from December 31, 2008. Total valuation adjustments to inventory and adverse purchase commitments were $8.5 million in 2007, $14.2 million in 2008 and $11.4 million in 2009. Due to the large number of units in our inventory, even a small change in average selling prices could result in a significant adjustment, to the extent that the carrying value of the inventory exceeds the average selling price, and could harm our financial results. For excess inventory analysis, we compare the inventory on hand with the forecasted demand. Demand is based on one year for packaged products and two years for products in die form. For the obsolete inventory analysis, we review inventory items in detail and consider date code, customer base requirements, planned or recent product revisions, end of life plans, diminished market demand and other factors that may be appropriate during a particular period. In the event that customer requirements cause us to change this methodology, it may be necessary for us to provide for an additional allowance, which could result in a significant adjustment and could harm our financial results. Cancellations or rescheduling of backlog may result in lower future revenue and harm our business. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. We have experienced a significant push out of customer delivery schedules and significant order cancellations in the past, including in 17 Table of Contents the fourth quarter of 2008. A reduction of backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our backlog to result in future revenue, could harm our business in the future. We have historically experienced a decrease in the average selling prices of our products during periods of industry-wide oversupply and excessive inventory. We have experienced price erosion in selected areas in 2008 and 2009 and our business could be further harmed by a continued industry-wide prolonged downturn. There is seasonality in our business, and its pattern may be difficult to predict in any year or from quarter to quarter. Sales of our products in the consumer electronics applications market are subject to seasonality. As a result, sales of these products are impacted by seasonal purchasing patterns with higher sales generally occurring in the second half of each year. However, due to negative global economic conditions and market instability, we did not experience this historical increase in sales in the second half of 2008, and experienced only a limited increase in the second half of 2009. Seasonal patterns may not materialize in any year and the decline or increase in any one quarter may be greater or less than historical patterns may indicate. In addition, changes in the competitiveness of our product offerings or changes in demand for our products in any particular market segment may completely negate seasonal revenue swings. In some years we have been able to mitigate such seasonality with the introduction of new products. If we fail to continue to introduce new products, our business may suffer and the seasonality of a portion of our sales may become more pronounced. Our business may suffer due to risks associated with international sales and operations. During 2007, 2008, and 2009 our international product and licensing revenues accounted for 94.3%, 92.9% and 94.4% of our net revenues, respectively. Our international business activities are subject to a number of risks, each of which could impose unexpected costs on us that would harm our operating results. These risks include: • difficulties in complying with regulatory requirements and standards; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; • reliance on third parties to distribute our products; • extended accounts receivable payment cycles; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • limits on repatriation of earnings; and • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. In addition, we have made equity investments in companies with operations in several Asian countries. The value of our investments is subject to the economic and political conditions particular to their industries and their countries, foreign exchange rates, and the global economy. If we determine that a change in the recorded value of an investment is other than temporary, we will adjust the value of the investment. Such an expense could have a negative impact on our operating results. We derived 88.8%, 87.3% and 91.7% of our net product revenues from Asia during 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Additionally, substantially all of our wafer suppliers and packaging and testing subcontractors are located in Asia. Any kind of economic, political or environmental instability in this region of the world can have a severe negative impact on our operating results due to the large concentration of our production and sales activities in this region. If countries where we do business experience severe currency fluctuation and economic deflation, it can negatively impact our revenues and also negatively impact our ability to collect payments from customers. In this event, the lack of capital in the financial sectors of these countries may make it difficult for our customers to open letters of credit or other financial instruments that are guaranteed by foreign banks. Finally, the economic situation can exacerbate a decline in selling prices for our products as our competitors reduce product prices to generate needed cash. 18 Table of Contents It should also be noted that we are greatly impacted by the political, economic and military conditions in Taiwan. Taiwan and China are continuously engaged in political disputes and both countries have continued to conduct military exercises in or near the other’s territorial waters and airspace. Such disputes may continue and even escalate, resulting in an economic embargo, a disruption in shipping or even military hostilities. Any of these events can delay production or shipment of our products. Any kind of activity of this nature or even rumors of such activity can harm our operations, revenues, operating results and stock price. We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. We make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include investments in equity securities of public companies and investments in non-marketable equity and debt securities of private companies, which range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies whose products or technologies may directly support our products or initiatives. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency and other key business success factors. The private companies in which we invest may fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take advantage of liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for the equity securities of the public and private companies in which we invest, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, we recorded impairments on our investments of $22.4 million, $21.8 million and $0.5 million, respectively. Furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. Our investments in non-marketable equity securities of private companies are not liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could negatively affect our results of operations. Our investment portfolio may be impaired by further deterioration of the capital markets. Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investment portfolio as of December 31, 2009 consists of money market funds, domestic government and foreign corporate debt securities, and foreign listed equity securities. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, some financial instruments, such as structured investment vehicles, sub-prime mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations, may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. As of December 31, 2009, we had no direct holdings in these categories of investments and our exposure to these financial instruments through our indirect holdings in money market mutual funds was not material to total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. As a result of market conditions, the value of our investments in publicly held companies in Taiwan, a component of our long-term investment portfolio, may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. The value of these investments declined significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008 and we recorded an impairment charge of $231,000 associated with our investment in KYE. Please see Note 15, “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our investment in KYE. We did not record any impairments associated with our investments in publicly held companies during 2009. However, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and our investment portfolio may be impaired by future events. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers, and the loss of a major customer could harm our business. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. In the past, when we have entered into a long-term contract, the contract has generally been terminable at the convenience of the customer. However, we do lose and obtain major customer accounts from time to time and the loss of a major customer could harm our business. 19 Table of Contents We depend on stocking representatives and distributors to generate a majority of our revenues. We rely on stocking representatives and distributors to establish and maintain customer relationships and to sell our products. These stocking representatives and distributors could discontinue their relationship with us or discontinue selling our products at any time. The majority of our stocking representatives are located in Asia. The loss of our relationship with any stocking representative or distributor could harm our operating results by impairing our ability to sell our products to our end customers. We depend on Silicon Professional Technology Ltd., or SPT, our logistics center, to support many of our customers in Asia. We out-source our end customer service logistics in Asia to Silicon Professional Technology Ltd., or SPT, which supports our customers in Taiwan, China and other Southeast Asia countries. SPT provides forecasting, planning, warehousing, delivery, billing, collection and other logistic functions for us in these regions. SPT is a wholly-owned subsidiary of one of our stocking representatives in Taiwan, Professional Computer Technology Limited, or PCT. Products shipped to SPT are accounted for as our inventory held at our logistics center, and revenue is recognized when the products have been delivered and are considered as a sale to our end customers by SPT. During 2007, 2008 and 2009, SPT serviced end customer sales accounting for 60.1%, 56.2% and 59.5%, respectively, of our net product revenues recognized. As of December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, SPT represented 65.3%, 50.9% and 66.1%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable. For further description of our relationships with PCT and SPT, please refer to Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Related Party Reporting.” We do not have any long-term contracts with SPT, PCT or Silicon Professional Alliance Corporation, or SPAC, another subsidiary of PCT. SPT, PCT or SPAC may cease providing services to us at any time. If SPT, PCT or SPAC were to terminate their relationship with us we would experience a delay in reestablishing warehousing, logistics and distribution functions, and it could impair our ability to collect accounts receivable from SPT and may harm our business. In addition if SPT were to experience financial difficulty, our collection of our accounts receivable could be adversely affected and our business could be harmed. We depend on a limited number of foreign foundries to manufacture our products, and these foundries may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which could cause our revenues to decline. We outsource substantially all of our manufacturing and testing activities. We currently buy all of our wafers and sorted die from a limited number of suppliers. The majority of our products are manufactured by four foundries, Grace and HHNEC in China, TSMC in Taiwan, and SMIC. We have an equity investment in GSMC, a Cayman Islands company, which owns a wafer foundry subsidiary, Grace, in Shanghai, China. We anticipate that these foundries, together with Samsung Corporation in Korea and Maxchip in Taiwan will continue to manufacture substantially all of our products in the foreseeable future. If these suppliers fail to satisfy our requirements on a timely basis at competitive prices we could suffer manufacturing delays, a possible loss of revenues or higher than anticipated costs of revenues, any of which could harm our operating results. Purchases from our top three suppliers accounted for 52.1% and 36.3% of our costs of revenues in 2008 and 2009, respectively. Our revenues may be impacted by our ability to obtain adequate wafer supplies from our foundries and NAND memory chips from our suppliers. The foundries with which we currently have arrangements, together with any additional foundry at which capacity might be obtained, may not be willing or able to satisfy all of our manufacturing requirements on a timely basis at favorable prices. In addition, we have encountered delays in qualifying new products and in ramping-up new product production and we could experience these delays in the future. We are also subject to the risks of service disruptions, raw material shortages and price increases by our foundries. Such disruptions, shortages and price increases could harm our operating results. 20 Table of Contents Manufacturing capacity has in the past been difficult to secure and if capacity constraints arise in the future our revenues may decline. In order to grow, we need to increase our present manufacturing capacity. The existing available capacity from Grace, HHNEC and TSMC was insufficient during 2007. We subsequently contracted for additional manufacturing capacity and do not expect capacity constraints in the near future. However, events that we have not foreseen could arise which would further limit our capacity. Similar to our investment in GSMC, we may determine that it is necessary to invest substantial capital in order to secure appropriate production capacity commitments. If we cannot secure additional manufacturing capacity on acceptable terms, our ability to grow will be impaired and our operating results will be harmed. Our cost of revenues may increase if we are required to purchase manufacturing capacity in the future. To obtain additional manufacturing capacity, we may be required to make prepayments, deposits, equipment purchases, loans, joint ventures, equity investments or technology licenses in or with wafer fabrication companies. These transactions could involve a commitment of substantial amounts of our capital and technology licenses in return for production capacity. We may be required to seek additional debt or equity financing if we need substantial capital in order to secure this capacity and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such financing. If our foundries fail to achieve acceptable wafer manufacturing yields, we will experience higher costs of revenues and reduced product availability. The fabrication of our products requires wafers to be produced in a highly controlled and ultra-clean environment. Semiconductor companies that supply our wafers have, from time to time, experienced problems achieving acceptable wafer manufacturing yields. Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function of both our design technology and the foundry’s manufacturing process technology. Low yields may result from marginal design or manufacturing process drift. Yield problems may not be identified until the wafers are well into the production process, which often makes them difficult, time consuming and costly to correct. Furthermore, we rely on independent foundries for our wafers which increases the effort and time required to identify, communicate and resolve manufacturing yield problems. If our foundries fail to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, we will experience higher costs of revenues and reduced product availability, which could harm our operating results. If our foundries discontinue the manufacturing processes needed to meet our demands, or fail to upgrade the technologies needed to manufacture our products, we may face production delays and lower revenues. Our wafer and product requirements typically represent a small portion of the total production of the foundries that manufacture our products. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a foundry will cease production on an older or lower-volume manufacturing process that it uses to manufacture our products. Additionally, we cannot be certain our foundries will continue to devote resources to advance the process technologies on which the manufacturing of our products is based. We are currently transitioning to lower geometries, and if our foundries are unable to successfully make this transition our business will be harmed. Either one of these events could increase our costs and harm our ability to deliver our products on time. Our dependence on third-party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test our products subjects us to a number of risks, including disruption and an inadequate supply of products and higher costs of materials. We depend on independent subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test our products. Our reliance on these subcontractors involves the following significant risks: • disruption or complete shut down of supply to customers due to fire, earthquake, flood or other natural disaster; • reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; 21 Table of Contents • the potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of strong demand; • difficulties selecting and integrating new subcontractors; • limited warranties on the service they provide to us; • potential increases in prices due to capacity shortages and other factors; and • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. These risks may lead to increased costs, delayed product delivery or loss of competitive advantage, which would harm our profitability and customer relationships. Because our flash memory, radio frequency IC and NANDrive products typically have lengthy sales cycles, we may experience substantial delays between incurring expenses related to research and development and the generation of revenues. Due to the flash memory product cycle we usually require more than nine months to realize volume shipments after we first contact a customer. We first work with customers to achieve a design-in, which may take three months or longer. Our customers then complete the design, testing and evaluation process and begin to ramp up production, a period which typically lasts an additional nine months or longer. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our research and development efforts and our realization of revenue, if any, from volume purchasing of our products by our customers. We expect that the current negative global economic conditions will continue to lengthen our sales cycles. Our success is dependent on the growth and strength of the flash memory market. Substantially all of our products, as well as all new products currently under design, are stand-alone flash memory devices or devices embedded with flash memory. A memory technology other than SuperFlash may be adopted as an industry standard. Our competitors are generally in a better financial and marketing position than we are from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular memory technology. In particular, a primary source of competition may come from alternative technologies such as FRAM or MRAM devices if such technology is commercialized for higher density applications. To the extent our competitors are able to promote a technology other than SuperFlash as an industry standard, our business will be harmed. We face intense competition from companies with significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources that could harm sales of our products. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we do. Many of our competitors have their own facilities for the production of semiconductor memory or non-memory components and have recently added significant capacity for such production. Our low-density memory products, medium-density memory products, and high-density memory products, as well as our radio frequency IC and NANDrive products, if we are successful in developing these products, face substantial competition. In addition, we may in the future experience direct competition from our foundry partners. We have licensed to our foundry partners the right to fabricate products based on our technology and circuit design, and to sell such products worldwide, subject to our receipt of royalty payments. Competition may also come from alternative technologies such as ferroelectric random access memory devices, or FRAM, magneto-resistive random access memory, or MRAM, phase change memory, or PCM, or other developing technologies. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change and, therefore, our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products. The markets for our products are characterized by: • rapidly changing technologies; 22 Table of Contents • evolving and competing industry standards; • changing customer needs; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • increased integration with other functions; and • rapid product obsolescence. To develop new products for our target markets, we must develop, gain access to and use leading technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner and continue to expand our technical and design expertise. In addition, we must have our products designed into our customers’ future products and maintain close working relationships with key customers in order to develop new products that meet their changing needs. In addition, products for communications applications are based on continually evolving industry standards. Our ability to compete will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these industry standards. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and incur significant expense to redesign our products and ensure compliance with relevant standards. We believe that products for these applications will encounter intense competition and be highly price sensitive. While we are currently developing and introducing new products for these applications, we cannot assure you that these products will reach the market on time, will satisfactorily address customer needs, will be sold in high volume, or will be sold at profitable margins. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify new product opportunities successfully, develop and bring to market new products, achieve design wins or respond effectively to new technological changes or product announcements by our competitors. In addition, we may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances may require substantial time and expense. Failure in any of these areas could harm our operating results. The high level of complexity and integration of our products increases the risk of latent defects, which could damage customer relationships and increase our costs. Our products are based upon evolving technology and are highly complex. The integration of additional functions into already complex products could result in a greater risk that customers or end users could discover latent defects or subtle faults after we have already shipped significant quantities of a product. Although we test our products, we may in the future encounter defects or errors. Delivery of products with defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems may damage our reputation and ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, product defects and errors could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical resources, delayed product shipments, increased product returns, product warranty costs for recall and replacement and product liability claims against us which may not be fully covered by insurance. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key design engineering, sales, marketing and executive personnel and our ability to identify, recruit and retain additional personnel. We are dependent on Bing Yeh, our Chief Executive Officer, as well as the other principal members of our management team and engineering staff. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor industry, in particular the highly skilled design, applications and test engineers involved in the development of flash memory technology. Competition is especially intense in Silicon Valley, where our corporate headquarters are located. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain engineers or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to replace engineers or other qualified personnel who may leave our employ in the future. Our anticipated growth is expected to place increased demands on our resources and will likely require the addition of new management and engineering personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. The failure to recruit and retain key design engineers or other technical and management personnel could harm our business. 23 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secrets, copyrights, mask work rights, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of our products, however, is difficult, especially in foreign countries. Litigation may continue to be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition regardless of the outcome of the litigation. As of December 31, 2009, we held 278 patents in the United States relating to certain aspects of our products and processes, with expiration dates ranging from 2010 to 2029 and have filed for several more. In addition, we hold several patents in Europe, Japan, Korea, Taiwan and China. We cannot assure you that any pending patent application will be granted. Our operating results could be harmed by the failure to protect our intellectual property. The matters relating to the review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements has resulted in litigation, which could harm our financial results. In March 2007, our Board of Directors determined to conduct a voluntary review of our historical stock option grant practices covering the time since our initial public offering in 1995. The review was led by the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors with the assistance of outside independent legal counsel, and began on or about March 15, 2007. As described further in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, the Chairman of the Audit Committee reached the conclusion that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants made in certain prior periods. As a result, we recorded additional non-cash share-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, related to stock option grants and restated our historical financial statements. The review of our historical stock option granting practices required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, totaling $12.0 million for 2007. In addition, the review diverted management’s attention from our business, and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are engaged in derivative suits, which may become time consuming, costly and divert management resources and could impact our stock price. Securities class action law suits are often brought against companies, particularly technology companies, following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we could incur significant costs and management resources in defending against such claims. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation. As described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” several derivative complaints have been filed against our directors and certain of our executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. The complaints were brought purportedly on behalf of SST against certain of our current and former officers and directors and allege, among other things, that the named officers and directors: (a) breached their fiduciary duties as they colluded with each other to backdate stock options, (b) violated Rule 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (c) were unjustly enriched by their receipt and retention of such stock options. These or future similar complaints, or any future litigation may not result in the same conclusions reached by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The conduct and resolution of these matters or other litigation will be time consuming, expensive and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Former employees may also bring lawsuits against us or engage us in arbitration relating to their stock options and other matters. These lawsuits may be time consuming and expensive, and cause further distraction from the operation of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents From time to time, we are also involved in other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. There can be no assurance that the shareholder class action complaints, the shareholder derivative complaints or other third party assertions will be resolved without costly litigation, in a manner that is not adverse to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows or without requiring payments in the future which may adversely impact gross margins. During the course of these lawsuits there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could harm the market price of our stock. We have incurred certain costs associated with defending these matters, and at any time, additional claims may be filed against us, which could increase the risk, expense and duration of the litigation. Further, because of the amount of discovery required in connection with this type of litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure. For more information with respect to our litigation, please also see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” On February 25, 2010, we announced that we had reached a proposed settlement of federal and state derivative litigation originally filed in 2005 and 2006 relating to certain prior option grant practices. The proposed settlement has been preliminarily approved by the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, or the Federal Court, subject to final approval at a hearing scheduled for April 9, 2010. Under the terms of the settlement, if the settlement is approved by the Federal Court, the state cases will be voluntarily dismissed. The settlement agreement does not contain any admission of wrongdoing or fault on the part of SST, our Board of Directors or executive officers. While we expect the Federal Court to approve the settlement agreement, there can be no assurance that it will approved. If the settlement agreement is not approved, we may be required to continue litigating the cases or pay damages or penalties, and we may have other remedies imposed on us that could harm our business. We have accrued what we believe to be probable costs in connection with the potential settlement of the shareholder class action complaints and the shareholder derivative complaints. As a result, approximately $0.7 million is included in Accrued expenses and other liabilities in our financial statements as of December 31, 2009. If we are accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of other parties we may become subject to time consuming and costly litigation. If we lose, we could suffer a significant impact on our business and be forced to pay damages. Third parties may assert that our products infringe their proprietary rights, or may assert claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims against us. Any such claims may cause us to delay or cancel shipment of our products or pay damages that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we could incur significant costs in defending against such claims. We receive from time to time, letters or communications from other companies stating that such companies have patent rights that involve our products. Since the design of most of our products is based on SuperFlash technology, any legal finding that the use of our SuperFlash technology infringes the patent of another company would have a significantly negative effect on our entire product line and operating results. Furthermore, if such a finding were made, there can be no assurance that we could license the other company’s technology on commercially reasonable terms or that we could successfully operate without such technology. Moreover, if we are found to infringe, we could be required to pay damages to the owner of the protected technology and could be prohibited from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing into the United States any products that infringe the protected technology. In addition, the management attention consumed by and legal cost associated with any litigation could harm our operating results. During the course of these lawsuits there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could harm the market price of our stock. 25 Table of Contents If an earthquake or other natural disaster strikes our manufacturing facility or those of our suppliers, we would be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and we would experience lost revenues. Our corporate headquarters are located in California near major earthquake faults. In addition, some of our suppliers are located near fault lines. In the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster near our headquarters, our operations could be harmed. Similarly, a major earthquake or other natural disaster such as typhoon near one or more of our major suppliers, like the earthquakes in April 2006 and December 2006 or the typhoons in September 2001 and July 2005 that occurred in Taiwan, could potentially disrupt the operations of those suppliers, which could then limit the supply of our products and harm our business. Terrorist attacks and threats, and government responses thereto, could harm our business. Terrorist attacks in the United States or abroad against American interests or citizens, U.S. retaliation for these attacks, threats of additional terrorist activity and the war in Iraq have caused our customer base to become more cautious. Any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors and suppliers, affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products, or affect the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economy in general and consumer spending in particular, which could harm our business. A virus or viral outbreak in Asia or elsewhere could harm our business. We derive substantially all of our revenues from Asia and our logistics center is located in Taiwan. A virus or viral outbreak in Asia, such as the SARS outbreak in early 2003 or threat of the Avian or Swine flu, could harm the operations of our suppliers, distributors, logistics center and those of our end customers, which could harm our business. Prolonged electrical power outages, energy shortages, or increased costs of energy could harm our business. Our design and process research and development facilities and our corporate offices are located in California, which is susceptible to power outages and shortages as well as increased energy costs. To limit this exposure, all corporate computer systems at our main California facilities are on battery back-up. In addition, all of our engineering and back-up servers and selected corporate servers are on generator back-up. While the majority of our production facilities are not located in California, more extensive power shortages in the state could delay our design and process research and development as well as increase our operating costs. Our growth has in the past placed a significant strain on our management systems and resources and if we fail to manage our growth, our ability to market or sell our products or develop new products may be harmed. Our business has in the past experienced rapid growth which strained our internal systems and future growth will require us to continuously develop sophisticated information management systems in order to manage our business effectively. We have implemented a supply-chain management system and a vendor electronic data interface system. There is no guarantee that these measures, in themselves, will be adequate to address any growth, or that we will be able to foresee in a timely manner other infrastructure needs before they arise. Our success depends on the ability of our executive officers to effectively manage our growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our results of operations will be harmed. If we fail to successfully implement new management information systems, our business may suffer severe inefficiencies that may harm the results of our operations. 26 Table of Contents If we determine that we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have dedicated a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with this legislation for the year ended December 31, 2009 and will continue to do so for future fiscal periods. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review, evaluation, and the implementation of improvements. Additionally, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. During the second quarter of 2009, we identified an error related to the recording of the income tax provision. Despite having engaged third party tax experts to assist us, in calculating our tax provision for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, we incorrectly calculated our reserve for foreign tax withholding on license revenue. We concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of June 30 and September 30, 2009, as a result of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, specifically the controls which ensure the accuracy of the provision for income taxes. Management implemented a remediation plan and remediated the material weaknesses as of December 31, 2009. Should we determine in future fiscal periods that we have additional material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reports may be impacted, and our results of operations or financial condition may be harmed and the price of our common stock may decline. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and NASDAQ Marketplace rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we have invested resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment has resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. 27 Table of Contents Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. In 2005 we acquired Actrans Systems Inc., a fabless semiconductor company that designs flash memory and EEPROMs and completed our acquisition of Emosyn, LLC, a fabless semiconductor manufacturer specializing in the design and marketing of smart card ICs for SIM applications. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets, including interests in our existing subsidiaries and joint ventures. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of such transactions. Any such transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that any such discussions or negotiations will result in the consummation of any transaction. The process of integrating any acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: • diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues of integration and future products; • declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business; • the need to integrate each company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that prior to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; and • in some cases, the need to transition operations onto our technology platforms. International acquisitions involve additional risks, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks, and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any or all of our acquisitions. As a result of future acquisitions or mergers, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 