Item 1A. Risk Factors Our performance and our future operations are and may be affected by a wide range of risks. Any or all of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we do not deem material, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on the market price of our common shares. We use our integrated risk management framework to identify risks across all segments of the Company, evaluate those risks, and implement strategies designed to mitigate those risks. This process is further described under “How We Approach Risk” on pages 27 and 28 in our 2015 Annual Integrated Report, attached as Exhibit 13. See “Forward-Looking Statements” earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A discussion of the Company’s strategies to mitigate certain risks is included in our “Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 29 through 33 in our 2015 Annual Integrated Report, attached as Exhibit 13. Our estimates of future demand for our products, and in particular potash, our primary nutrient, may prove to be overstated. We estimate the future level of demand for our products and attempt to meet this anticipated demand by adjusting our operational capability at certain facilities. Our customers’ decisions regarding the purchase of our products are affected by variable market, governmental, seasonal, foreign currency, other economic, weather and other conditions, most of which are outside of our control and can be difficult to accurately predict. For example, farmers’ decisions about the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and application rates for crop nutrients vary from year to year depending on a number of factors including, among others, crop prices, the level of grain inventory, governmental actions (including farm and biofuel policies), input costs, weather-related shifts in planting schedules and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. Therefore, the timing of customer purchases will vary each year, and fertilizer sales can shift between periods. We have taken major steps to prepare for an anticipated increase in potash demand in future years. We have undertaken several key expansion and debottlenecking projects at significant capital cost to substantially increase our potash production capability. We advanced the final phase of our Rocanville expansion plans in 2015 and are preparing to ramp up to full capability later in 2016. If demand does not increase as expected, our facilities may be underutilized. To the extent that we underutilize capacity, operating efficiencies may decline, which may require operations or workforce changes. This may result in the return on our investment being lower than expected and may negatively impact our ability to meet our growth expectations. Competitors’ increase in fertilizer supply may outpace growth in world demand. Some fertilizer products are characterized by minimal product differentiation within product categories and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product quality. Consequently, the market for fertilizer products is subject to competitive pricing pressures and is volatile. This volatility varies by product within the fertilizer industry. Our competitors have undertaken, and may undertake in the future, expansion or greenfield projects to increase fertilizer production capability and may increase production in response to market conditions or otherwise. If increases in supply outpace growth in world demand this may lead to oversaturation in the market, a reduction in price and declining capacity utilization rates, negatively affecting our financial performance. Canpotex may be dissolved or its ability to operate impaired. We rely heavily on Canpotex, our offshore marketing, transportation and distribution company, to deliver our potash to customers outside North America. Unexpected changes in laws or regulations, market or economic conditions, our (or our venture partners’) businesses, or otherwise could threaten the existence of Canpotex. A trusted potash brand could be lost and our access to key offshore markets impacted resulting in a less efficient logistics system and decreased market share, higher costs or lower net earnings from offshore sales. We may not be able to respond in a timely manner to unexpected surges in potash demand. While we strive to maintain optionality with our operating capabilities, it may take time to restart or expand our operating capability in order to respond when demand surges in an unanticipated manner. Our inability to respond could adversely affect our financial performance or reputation. We may fail to maintain high levels of safety, health and security. Safety is a fundamental value to us. The mining and industrial activities we engage in are inherently hazardous. Failure to prevent or respond to a major safety, health or security incident can result in incidents leading to serious injuries or fatalities among our employees, contractors or communities near our operations. Such incidents may lead to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, operational interruptions and shutdown or abandonment of affected facilities. Accidents could cause us to expend significant managerial time and efforts, and financial resources to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities and may also adversely impact our reputation. PotashCorp 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K 19 Table of Contents We may fail to protect the environment. Environmental incidents including uncontrolled tailings containment breaches, significant subsidence from mining activities and significant release of hazardous and other regulated materials may occur. Failure to prevent a significant environmental incident can be harmful to our employees, contractors, and communities and impact the biodiversity, water resources and related ecosystems near our operations. Such incidents could also adversely impact our operations, financial performance or reputation. We may incur costs related to new or revised environmental laws and regulations, Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations. We incur significant costs and associated liabilities in connection with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as air emissions, wastewater discharges, land use and reclamation and solid and hazardous waste management. Many of the laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Increased regulation, including that of greenhouse gases and other emissions from our operations, could increase our raw material, energy, transportation, and compliance costs and may have a negative effect on our financial performance. Insurance may not adequately cover all losses. We maintain property, business interruption, casualty and liability insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. If we were to incur significant liability for which we are not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be granted the relevant permits for our operations. Many of our existing operations are dependent upon having numerous required permits and approvals from relevant governmental authorities. In addition, expansion or modification of our operations may be predicated upon securing necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. Denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals could have an adverse effect on our ability to continue or expand operations thereby affecting our financial performance or our reputation. For additional information regarding environmental laws and regulations that impact our operations, see the information contained under ‘Environmental Matters’ in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may be subject to catastrophic events or malicious acts (including terrorism) involving our products or facilities. Similar to other companies with major industrial facilities, in addition to cyber security risks, our operations may be impacted by catastrophic events (such as severe weather or product transportation/storage mishaps) or targets of terrorist activities (or other intentional acts of destruction). As a result, our facilities, or those of third parties on which we rely, could be damaged or destroyed, or employees, contractors and the public could suffer serious physical injury. Such events could also affect our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain, which may adversely impact our financial results or reputation. Certain complications may arise in our mining process, including water inflows in our potash mines. The mining process is a complex process subject to certain geological conditions and hazards, including industrial and environmental hazards. For example, the presence of water-bearing strata above and below many underground mines poses the risk of water inflows. It is not uncommon for water inflows of varying degrees to occur in potash mines; however, it is difficult to predict if, when, or to what degree, such inflows could occur. At our Saskatchewan potash mines we have minor water inflows that we actively monitor and manage, as appropriate. Significant inflows at our potash mines could result in increased operational costs, increased risk of personal injury, production delays or stoppages, or the abandonment and closure of a mine. The risk of underground water inflows, as with most other underground risks, is currently not insured. Any of these risks and hazards relating to our mining process could negatively affect our safety or our financial performance. Our international operations may be affected by political and regulatory regimes. We have significant operations and investments in countries outside of Canada and the United States. We have a nitrogen production facility in Trinidad. In addition, we have significant investments in entities located in Chile, Jordan, China and Israel. Various factors may impact these operations including difficulties and costs associated with cultures, laws, regulations, foreign trade and fiscal policies; political and economic conditions; currency exchange rate fluctuations; armed conflict; terrorist activity; and 20 PotashCorp 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, social, political, labor and economic conditions. Such factors may lead to restrictions on monetary distributions, selective discrimination, forced divestures or changes to or nullification of existing agreements, mining permits or leases. Instability in political or regulatory regimes could cause volatility and impact our earnings growth or our reputation. Non-operated assets may be affected by decisions of third parties. We hold minority ownership interests in several companies, including SQM, APC, ICL and Sinofert. The operations and results of these investments are significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. Because we do not control these companies we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends or manage their businesses in our best interests. As a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, and may negatively impact our operations or our reputation. Our opportunities to strategically reinvest available capital may be limited. We regularly evaluate all strategic opportunities. We may seek to grow through acquisitions of assets or entities, or interests in other entities, such as our acquisitions of interests in SQM, APC, ICL and Sinofert. We may also consider other growth opportunities such as strategic alliances, evaluation of new products and technologies, or expansion into new markets that complement and extend our portfolio of businesses and capabilities and generate returns that exceed our cost of capital on a risk-adjusted basis. Various factors may limit our investment opportunities including geopolitical, market or other reasons. Such restrictions could negatively affect our growth. We may be unable to achieve expected benefits of our growth initiatives When we undertake any strategic initiatives, our ability to achieve the expected returns and other benefits will be affected by our degree of preparedness and ability to execute. With respect to acquisitions, we are dependent upon our ability to successfully consolidate functions and integrate operations, technology, procedures and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. The integration of acquired assets and operations requires the dedication of management effort, time and resources, which may divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities or operational matters during the process. The integration process may result in the disruption of our existing business and customer relationships that may adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits, and may negatively affect our financial performance. We also continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and operations that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or operations, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. In Trinidad, supply of natural gas, a key raw material for the manufacture of our nitrogen products, may continue to be curtailed. Due to decreased investment by the energy industry in exploration, development and major maintenance activities we continue to experience curtailments in our natural gas supply. While recent changes in government policy in Trinidad are intended to support natural gas exploration and development, we continue to expect curtailments of natural gas supply for the coming years. Prolonged interruption of our supply could result in loss of nitrogen production, adversely affecting our financial performance or reputation. Our information technology systems are subject to cyber security risks. We rely on information technology systems to conduct business. Targeted attacks on our systems (or on systems of third parties that we rely on), failure or non-availability of a key information technology system or a breach in security measures designed to protect our information technology systems could result in theft, misuse, modification and destruction of information, including trade secrets and confidential business information, and cause business disruptions, reputational damage, extensive personal injury and third-party claims, which could negatively impact our operations and our financial performance. We may not be able to recover all or a portion of our investment in assets. Changes in market conditions or industry structures, commodity prices, technical operating difficulties, inability to recover our mineral reserves or increased operating cost levels could result in reduced asset values, requiring financial writedowns that adversely impact our financial results. We may be unable to provide cost-effective, timely and secure transportation of our products. Transportation is a significant element of the sale of our products to customers. Accessing cost effective, timely and dependable transportation and port storage and other distribution facilities is important in allowing us and any export, sales and marketing companies, to supply customers near our operating facilities and around the world. Our (or the third parties upon which we rely) ability to provide cost-effective, timely and secure transportation and storage of product may be challenged due to PotashCorp 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K 21 Table of Contents labor disputes, system failures, accidents or delays, adverse weather or other environmental events, adverse operating conditions (including aging transportation infrastructure, railroad capacity constraints, changes to rail or ocean freight systems), swings in demand for our products, increased shipping demand for other products, adverse economic conditions, a change in our export, sales or marketing company relationships, or otherwise. This could result in customer dissatisfaction and inhibit earnings growth. Antitrust laws to which we are subject may change. We are subject to antitrust laws in various countries throughout the world. Changes in these laws or their interpretation, administration or enforcement may occur over time. Additionally, increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. Changes in antitrust laws globally, or the interpretation, administration or enforcement thereof, may limit our future acquisitions or operations, including the operations of Canpotex. Our advantaged cost position may be impaired. As we take steps to further improve this position, various factors such as labor costs, lack of technological improvements, operational inefficiencies, tax and regulatory costs, and water inflow control and other environmental costs may impact our ability to maintain our low-cost position and adversely affect our financial performance. We may experience increases in the price of raw materials that we use (such as natural gas and sulfur). Natural gas and sulfur are key raw materials for the manufacture of our products and represent a substantial part of our production and energy costs. Natural gas is utilized as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, a key input in the production of our upgraded nitrogen products and in the production of our concentrated phosphate products. Natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash mining and milling process. The cost of our raw materials may not correlate with changes in the prices we receive for our products, either in the direction of the price change or in absolute magnitude. The price of our raw materials can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability because of additional capacity or limited availability due to curtailments or other operating problems. Other external factors beyond our control can also cause volatility in raw materials prices, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, the level of business activity in the industries that use our products, competitors’ actions, international events and circumstances and governmental regulation in the United States and abroad. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs of raw materials to our customers through the end products. A significant increase in the price of natural gas or sulfur that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our products could negatively impact our financial performance. We may be unable to attract, develop, engage and retain skilled employees. Sustaining and growing our business depends on the recruitment, development, engagement and retention of qualified and motivated employees. Although we strive to be an employer of choice in our industry, competition for skilled employees in certain geographical areas in which we operate can be significant and we may not be successful in attracting, developing or retaining such skilled employees. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. In response to market conditions, we have made operating and workforce changes in recent periods. These changes may impact existing employees’ engagement and retention and our ability to attract qualified and motivated employees in the future. The inability to attract, develop, engage or retain quality employees could result in decreased productivity and efficiency, higher costs and reputational harm. It could also negatively impact our ability to take on new projects and sustain operations, which might negatively affect our operations or our ability to grow. Strikes or other forms of work interruption could disrupt our business. A significant portion of our workforce is unionized or otherwise governed by collective bargaining or similar agreements. We are therefore subject to the possibility of organized labor disruptions. Adverse labor relations or contract negotiations that do not result in an agreement could result in strikes, slowdowns or impose additional costs to resolve these disputes. These disruptions may negatively impact our ability to produce or sell our products. These disruptions may also impact our ability to recruit and retain personnel and could negatively affect our performance. Our projects involve risks We have undertaken and continue to undertake various projects including capital and business process improvement/transformation projects. These projects involve risks, including (but not limited to) cost overruns, schedule delays and performance uncertainties. Cost overruns may result from difficult environmental conditions, shortages of qualified labor, and escalating costs of labor and materials. Delays may result from unavailability and underperformance of skilled personnel, suppliers of materials or technology and other third parties we retain. Once completed, our projects may not perform in accordance with our 22 PotashCorp 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents expectations due to design flaws or operator issues. Any of the foregoing risks could impair our ability to realize the benefits we had anticipated from the projects and negatively impact our financial performance. Future innovation could affect our business. Future innovation such as development of full or partial substitutes for our products, seeds that require less crop nutrients, or modifications to the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business and may adversely affect our financial performance. We are subject to legal proceedings, the outcome of which may affect our business. We are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings. These proceedings include matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. The outcome of these proceedings may have a negative impact on our financial performance or reputation. Violations of our governance and compliance policies may occur. We operate in a global environment that encompasses multiple jurisdictions and complex regulatory frameworks. Our governance and compliance processes, which include the review of internal controls over financial reporting and specific internal controls in relation to offers of things of value to government officials and representatives of state-owned enterprises, may not prevent potential violations of law, accounting or governance practice. Our Core Values, together with our mandatory policies, such as the anti-corruption and anti-fraud policies, may not prevent instances of fraudulent behavior and dishonesty nor guarantee compliance with legal or regulatory requirements. This may lead to regulatory fines, disgorgement of profits, litigation, loss of operating licenses or reputational damage. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 