Item 1A. Risk Factors Our performance and future development are affected by a wide range of risk factors. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on the market price of our common shares. We use our integrated Risk Management Framework to identify risks across all segments of the Company, evaluate those risks, and implement strategies designed to mitigate those risks. This process is further described under “Risk Management” on pages 39 and 40 in our 2008 Financial Review, attached as Exhibit 13, incorporated herein by reference. See also note regarding “Forward-Looking Statements,” earlier in this report. The Company implements strategies to mitigate risks, including the risks identified in this section. A discussion of the Company’s strategies to mitigate certain risks is included in our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2008 Financial Review, attached as Exhibit 13, on pages 13 through 18 for potash, 21 through 24 for phosphate and 27 through 30 for nitrogen. Set forth below are the most significant risks and uncertainties that affect the Company and its businesses: Global demand for our products that differs from expectations could adversely affect the results of future operations. The Company has taken major steps to prepare for an anticipated increase in potash demand in future years. The Company is undertaking several key expansion and debottlenecking projects totaling approximately Cdn $7 billion. These projects are expected to come on stream incrementally over the next several years. FORM 10-K ï Part I Page 25 Table of Contents We predict the future level of demand for our products and attempt to meet growing demand. Accurate predictions allow us to avoid surplus inventory and missed sales opportunities. However, incorrect predictions can lead to rising costs and decreased profits. If our estimates of future potash demand prove to be overstated, we would experience a lower return on investment due to lower revenues. New product supply can create a structural market imbalance, which could reduce our profits. Fertilizer is a bulk commodity that is generally characterized by minimal product differentiation. Consequently, the market for fertilizer is subject to competitive pricing pressures and cyclicality. An increase in the competitive supply of fertilizer that outpaces the growth in world consumption generally reduces prices; whereas, a supply shortage can increase prices as customers compete for available product. Low prices tend to discourage capacity investment, thereby diminishing future supply growth, while high prices typically accelerate new supply projects and increase production. Commodity price cyclicality varies from industry to industry. The nitrogen industry, for example, is characterized by many producers around the world, lower capital costs of entry and short construction times. Not surprisingly, nitrogen is prone to substantial price volatility. In contrast, good potash deposits are rare; capital costs are very high; and Greenfield projects take 5 to 7 years to develop. As a result, potash prices are less volatile than nitrogen prices. We rely heavily upon railcars, ocean freightliners, warehouse and port storage facilities to transport and distribute product to our customers. Transportation is a significant part of the final sale price of our products and some of our customers require just-in-time delivery. Finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in allowing us to supply customers close to our operating facilities and customers around the world. Labor disputes, derailments, adverse weather or other environmental events, short term swings in demand for potash and changes to rail or ocean freight systems could interrupt or limit available transport services, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales potential and could negatively affect our financial performance. Strong demand for grain and other products affects railcar availability. A shortage of railcars for carrying product and increased transit time in North America may result in inability to deliver on a timely basis, customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher transportation costs. Delays and missed shipments relying on ocean freight could result in customer dissatisfaction and loss of sales potential and could negatively affect our financial performance. As discussed below, the global financial crisis could affect our ability to access transport services as and when required because of the potential impact on the businesses of these transport service providers. The Company is subject to risks associated with international operations. The Company has operations and investments in countries outside of Canada and the United States. Historically, these countries have had less stable political environments. We have a nitrogen production facility in Trinidad. In addition, we have significant investments in SQM, APC, Sinofert and ICL. Additionally, potash from our Saskatchewan operations for sale outside Canada and the United States is sold exclusively to Canpotex, which acts as an export marketing and sales company. A significant portion of Canpotex sales are to China. Other key offshore customers are located in Brazil, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Japan. Global expansion opportunities with the lowest cost and the highest synergies are sometimes located in politically sensitive regions. Risks inherent in doing business inside Canada and the United States also exist in foreign countries and may be exaggerated by differences in culture, laws and regulations. Political and economic conditions, foreign trade policies, fiscal policies, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments may affect performance and development of our operations and investments. Our operations and investments may be affected by abrupt political change, forced divestiture, selective discrimination, FORM 10-K ï Part I Page 26 Table of Contents inconvertibility of funds, armed conflict, terrorist activity and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, social, political, labor and economic conditions. Water inflows in our potash mines, or potash mines in which we have an interest, could result in increased costs and could require us to abandon a mine, either of which could adversely affect the results of our operations. The presence of water-bearing strata in many underground mines carries the risk of water inflows. It is difficult to predict if water inflow will occur at our mines or mines in which we have an interest. We currently manage water inflows at our New Brunswick mine, while ongoing water inflows are being managed at the Esterhazy mine, in which we have an interest in the mineral rights. Additional water inflows at these or other mines could increase the costs required to operate such mines, injure our employees and/or lead to the abandonment of a mine. The risk of underground water inflows, similar to other underground risks, is not insurable. The Company may be adversely affected by changing anti-trust laws to which it is subject. We are subject to anti-trust laws in various countries throughout the world. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. Changes in anti-trust laws globally, or the interpretation, administration or enforcement thereof, may limit our future acquisitions, or the operations of Canpotex and PhosChem. Strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. Adverse labor relations or contract negotiations that do not result in an agreement could result in strikes or slowdowns. These disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. Damage to our reputation could negatively affect our performance. Loss of our reputation can be the consequence of a number of events. Reputation loss extends throughout all risk categories and may result in loss of investor confidence, loss of customer confidence, poor community relations and a decline in employee productivity. Reputation loss could interfere with our ability to execute our strategies. Reputation loss is a negative consequence resulting from these or other risks and can have a detrimental affect on our performance. Deliberate, malicious acts involving our products or facilities or downstream product mishaps may expose employees, contractors or the public to extensive injury, cause property damage or affect the Company’s reputation. Intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and interrupt our supply chain. Facilities could be damaged leading to a reduction in our operational production capacity. Employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury. The consequences of any such actions could damage our reputation, negatively affecting our sales and profits. Other risks may hurt our operating results. The duration and depth of the global financial crisis are impossible to predict. As a result of this crisis, our relationships with customers and with external partners in the supply chain upon whom we rely may become riskier. Conditions in the credit markets could negatively affect the ability of our customers to pay or reduce their demand for our products. If our customers’ financial condition reduces demand for our products or our suppliers’ financial condition causes disruptions to our supply chain, our operating results may be negatively affected. FORM 10-K ï Part I Page 27 Table of Contents In addition to the above, other risks may affect our performance including unexpected or adverse weather conditions; price risks associated with feedstocks, including natural gas and sulfur; other hedging activities; changes in capital markets and corresponding effects on our investments, including our investments in auction rate securities; changes in currencies and exchange rates; unexpected geological or environmental conditions; legal proceedings; changes in, and the effects of, government policy and regulation, including environmental regulations and greenhouse gas regulations and regulations and actions affecting our transportation and sale of natural gas; inherent risks in industrial operations, including inability to obtain insurance for underground operations; inappropriate handling and transportation of some of our products by customers or carriers; and future acquisitions by the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 