Item 1A. Risk Factors Our performance and future operations are affected by a wide range of risk factors. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on the market price of our common shares. We use our integrated Risk Management Framework to identify risks across all segments of the Company, evaluate those risks, and implement strategies designed to mitigate those risks. This process is further described under “Global risk perspective” on pages 24 to 26 in our 2013 Annual Integrated Report, attached as Exhibit 13 and incorporated herein by reference. See “Forward-Looking Statements” earlier in this report. A discussion of the Company’s strategies to mitigate certain risks is included in our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2013 Annual Integrated Report, attached as Exhibit 13, on pages 26 to 28. Set forth below are the most significant risks and uncertainties that affect the Company and its businesses: Global demand for our products may differ from our expectations We have taken major steps to prepare for an anticipated increase in potash demand in future years. We have undertaken several key expansion and debottlenecking projects at significant capital cost to substantially increase our potash production capability. Some of these projects began to ramp-up operational capability in 2012 and the remaining projects at our Rocanville and New Brunswick facilities will come on stream over the next several years. We estimate the future level of demand for our products and attempt to meet this anticipated growing demand by increasing our operational capability at certain facilities. Accurate estimates allow us to prevent either surplus inventory or missed sales opportunities. However, inaccurate estimates can lead to decreased profits. Reduced market demand can lead to underutilization of our production facilities. To the extent that we underutilize capacity, operating efficiencies decline, which negatively impacts our financial performance. Growth in developing markets was less robust than expected, particularly in our potash and phosphate business, and has contributed to challenging market conditions. In December 2013 we announced operating and workforce changes intended to optimize our lowest cost operations, while retaining the ability to respond to expected demand levels and the product needs of our customers. Our customers’ decisions regarding the purchase of our products are affected by variable market, governmental, seasonal, economic and weather conditions. As a result, our customers’ purchasing decisions can be difficult to accurately predict. Farmers’ decisions about application rates for crop nutrients vary from year to year 18 PotashCorp 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K depending on a number of factors including, among others, crop prices, governmental actions, input costs, planting conditions and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. Therefore, the timing of customer purchases will vary each year, and fertilizer sales can be expected to shift between periods. Our annual and quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules, application decisions, and purchasing patterns. We have responded to changes in our industry and the markets we serve by making operating and workforce changes that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These activities have included reduction in workforce, reducing, suspending or ceasing production at certain facilities and closing certain facilities. These actions are intended to optimize our lowest cost operations while retaining the ability to respond to expected demand levels and product needs of our customers. Risks associated with the operating and workforce changes include not realizing anticipated cost savings, delayed timing of cost savings, employee attraction, engagement and retention issues, incurring unanticipated costs, and potential inability to respond in a timely basis to an unexpected increase in market demand for our products. If estimates of future demand prove to be inaccurate or our operating and workforce changes do not have the intended effects, it could negatively affect our performance. Increased competitive supply can create an imbalance between supply and demand. Generally, fertilizer products are bulk commodities characterized by minimal product differentiation within product categories. Consequently, the market for fertilizer products is subject to competitive marketing pressures and cyclicality. Our competitors have undertaken, and may undertake in the future, expansion or greenfield projects to increase fertilizer production capability and may increase production of fertilizer in response to market conditions or otherwise. An increase in the competitive supply of fertilizer that outpaces the growth in world consumption generally leads to oversaturation in the market and price reductions. A supply shortage can increase prices as customers compete for available product. As in many commodity businesses, during periods of lower prices, there tends to be less investment in capacity expansion, while periods of higher prices typically lead to new supply projects and increased production. Commodity price cyclicality varies within the fertilizer industry. The nitrogen industry, for example, is generally characterized by many producers around the world, lower capital costs of entry and shorter construction times. As a result, nitrogen is prone to substantial price volatility. In contrast, quality potash deposits are rare and capital costs are very high. Although potash prices have historically been less volatile than nitrogen prices, they have more recently experienced increased volatility as a result of market developments. Our international operations and investments are subject to certain risks. We have operations and investments in countries outside of Canada and the United States. Historically, these countries have had less stable political environments. We have a nitrogen production facility in Trinidad. In addition, we have significant investments in entities located in Chile, Jordan, China and Israel. Potash from our Saskatchewan operations for sale outside Canada and the United States is sold exclusively to Canpotex, which is an export marketing and sales company. A significant portion of Canpotex sales are to China, Brazil, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Japan. Global expansion opportunities with the lowest cost and the highest synergies are sometimes located in politically sensitive regions. Inherent business risks within Canada and the United States also exist in foreign countries and may be exaggerated by various risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties and costs associated with differences in culture, laws, regulations, foreign trade policies and fiscal policies; political and economic conditions; forced divestiture; selective discrimination; inconvertibility of funds; armed conflict; terrorist activity; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, social, political, labor and economic conditions. Transportation systems, including railcars, ocean freightliners, warehouse and port storage facilities are integral to the delivery of products to our customers. Transportation is a significant element of the sale of our products to customers. Accessing cost effective, timely and dependable transportation and port storage and other distribution facilities is important in allowing us and any export, sales and marketing companies, to supply customers near our operating facilities and around the world. Labor disputes, accidents, adverse weather or other environmental events, short term swings in demand for our products, increased shipping demand for other products, adverse economic conditions, a change in our relationships with other members of export, sales or marketing companies, or changes in credit markets and changes to rail or ocean freight systems could interrupt delivery or limit available transport services, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and could negatively affect our financial performance. Certain complications may arise in our mining process, including water inflows in our potash mines. The mining process is a complex process subject to certain geological conditions and hazards, including industrial and environmental hazards. For example, the presence of water-bearing strata in many underground mines poses the risk of water PotashCorp 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K 19 inflows. It is sometimes difficult to predict if or when water inflow will occur at our mines. We currently manage water inflow at our Penobsquis mine. Additional water inflows at this or other mines could increase the costs required to operate such mines, increase the risk of personal injury, lead to production delays or stoppages, or the abandonment of a mine. The risk of underground water inflows, as with other underground risks, is currently not insured. Any of these risks and hazards relating to our mining process could negatively affect our performance. Increases in the price or reduced availability of raw materials that we use could negatively impact our financial performance. Natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials for the manufacture of our products and represent a substantial part of our production and energy costs. Natural gas is utilized as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a key raw material used in the production of our concentrated phosphate products. Natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash mining and milling process. The cost of our raw materials may not correlate with changes in the prices we receive for our products, either in the direction of the price change or in absolute magnitude. The price of our raw materials can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability because of additional capacity or limited availability due to curtailments or other operating problems. Other external factors beyond our control can also cause volatility in raw materials prices, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, the level of business activity in the industries that use our products, competitors’ actions, international events and circumstances and governmental regulation in the United States and abroad. For example, we have experienced natural gas curtailments at our Trinidad facility over the last several years due to decreased investment in gas exploration and development activity and major maintenance activities being conducted at natural gas facilities. While recent changes in government policy in Trinidad have led to an increase in natural gas exploration and development activity, and the major maintenance activities have now been concluded, we expect some curtailments of natural gas to continue. These types of curtailments or other reductions in the availability of raw materials could adversely affect our ability to produce our products on a cost effective basis. As the majority of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs of raw materials to our customers through the end products. A significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our products could negatively impact our financial performance. Anti-trust laws to which we are subject may change. We are subject to anti-trust laws in various countries throughout the world. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. Changes in anti-trust laws globally, or the interpretation, administration or enforcement thereof, may limit our future acquisitions, or the operations of Canpotex. We have included additional information with respect to certain anti-trust matters in Note 27 of the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements in our 2013 Annual Integrated Report, attached as Exhibit 13. Strikes or other forms of work interruption could disrupt our business. Adverse labor relations or contract negotiations that do not result in an agreement could result in strikes, slowdowns or impose additional costs to resolve these disputes. These disruptions may negatively impact our ability to produce or sell our products. These disruptions may also impact our ability to recruit and retain personnel and could negatively affect our performance. Inability to attract, retain, develop and motivate skilled employees could negatively affect our performance. Sustaining and growing our business depends on the recruitment, development, and retention of qualified and motivated employees. Although we strive to be an employer of choice in our industry, competition for skilled employees in certain geographical areas in which we operate can be significant and we may not be successful in attracting, retaining or developing such skilled employees. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. In response to market conditions, we have made operating and workforce changes. These changes may impact existing employees engagement and retention and our ability to attract qualified and motivated employees in the future. The inability to attract, develop, or retain quality employees could negatively impact our ability to take on new projects and sustain operations, which might negatively affect our operations or our ability to grow. Catastrophic events or malicious acts involving our products or facilities or downstream product mishaps may cause extensive personal injury and property damage. Our operations may be impacted by catastrophic events, such as severe weather, or intentional acts of destruction, which could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. Facilities could be damaged leading to a reduction in our operational production capacity. Employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury. The consequences of any such events could negatively affect our performance. 20 PotashCorp 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K Environmental laws and regulations impact our operations. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations. We incur significant costs and associated liabilities in connection with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as air emissions, wastewater discharges, land use and reclamation and solid and hazardous waste management. Many of these laws, regulations and permit requirements are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Increased regulation, including that of greenhouse gases and other emissions from our operations, could increase our raw material, energy, transportation, and compliance costs and may have a negative effect on our performance. Our capital projects involve significant risks. We have undertaken significant expansion projects. Our potash expansion projects are nearly complete, with Rocanville and New Brunswick expansions remaining and will come on stream over the next several years. The successful completion of projects is subject to risks, including cost overruns, difficult construction conditions, shortages of qualified labor, and escalating costs of labor and materials. Our capital projects may also be dependent on the availability and performance of the engineering firms, construction firms, equipment suppliers, and other third parties we retain. As a result, we may not be able to complete our projects on the expected terms, cost or schedule. In addition, we cannot be certain that, if completed, we will be able to operate these projects, or that they will perform, in accordance with our expectations. Any of these factors could impair our ability to realize the benefits we had anticipated from the projects. Our information technology systems are subject to security risks. We rely on information technology systems to conduct business, including internal and external communications, ordering and managing shipments of materials for our operations, coordinating transportation of our products and maintaining and reporting our results. Individuals or groups have targeted and may continue to target our information technology systems to attempt to access confidential information. The security measures designed to protect our information technology systems may be breached. A breach could result in unauthorized access to our confidential information such as strategic plans or processes. Our efforts to address these problems may not be successful. Reputation damage could negatively affect our performance. Reputation loss is a negative consequence resulting from events and can have a detrimental effect on our performance. Reputation loss extends throughout all risk categories and may result in loss of investor confidence, loss of customer confidence, loss of confidence by our key suppliers or service providers, poor community relations and a decline in employee productivity. Reputation loss could also interfere with our ability to execute our strategies. Other events may impact our operating results. The effects of recent adverse and uncertain economic conditions and changes in the credit and financial markets, including economic and political uncertainty around the world such as the European sovereign debt crisis, are difficult to accurately determine. As a result of these conditions, our relationships with customers and with external partners upon whom we rely may become less stable. Conditions in the credit markets could negatively affect the ability of our customers to pay or reduce their demand for our products. If our customers’ financial condition reduces demand for our products or our suppliers’ financial condition causes disruptions to our supply chain, our operating results may be negatively affected. Other events may also affect our performance including unexpected or adverse weather conditions; hedging activities; changes in capital markets and corresponding effects on our investments; changes in foreign currencies and exchange rates; unexpected geological or environmental conditions; legal proceedings; changes in, and the effects of, government policy and regulation, transportation and distribution regulations and actions affecting our transportation and sale of natural gas; inherent risks in industrial operations; inappropriate handling and transportation of some of our products by customers or carriers; and future acquisitions by the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 