Item 1A. Risk Factors Our performance and our future operations are and may be affected by a wide range of risks. Any or all of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we do not deem material, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on the market price of our common shares. We use our integrated risk management framework to identify risks across all segments of the Company, evaluate those risks, and implement strategies designed to mitigate those risks. This process is further described under “How We Approach Risk” on pages 21 and 22 in our 2014 Annual Integrated Report, attached as Exhibit 13 and incorporated herein by reference. See “Forward-Looking Statements” earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A discussion of the Company’s strategies to mitigate certain risks is included in our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 23 to 25 in our 2014 Annual Integrated Report, attached as Exhibit 13. Global demand for our products, and in particular potash, our primary nutrient, may differ from our expectations. We estimate the future level of demand for our products and attempt to meet this anticipated demand by adjusting our operational capability at certain facilities. Accurate estimates allow us to prevent either surplus inventory or missed sales opportunities. However, inaccurate estimates can lead to decreased profits. Reduced market demand can lead to underutilization of our production facilities. To the extent that we underutilize capacity, operating efficiencies decline, which may require operations or workforce changes that could negatively impact our financial performance. We have taken major steps to prepare for an anticipated increase in potash demand in future years. We have undertaken several key expansion and debottlenecking projects at significant capital cost to substantially increase our potash production capability. This major investment is expected to be completed by the end of 2015 with ramp-up planned in 2015 and 2016. If demand does not increase as expected, our return on this investment and our ability to meet our growth expectation in a timely manner may be lower than expected. Our customers’ decisions regarding the purchase of our products are affected by variable market, governmental, seasonal, economic, weather and other conditions, many of which are outside of our control and can be difficult to accurately predict. For example, farmers’ decisions about application rates for crop nutrients vary from year to year depending on a number of factors including, among others, crop prices, governmental actions, input costs, planting conditions and the level of the crop nutrient remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. Therefore, the timing of customer purchases will vary each year, and fertilizer 18 PotashCorp 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents sales can shift between periods. Demand, and as a result our annual and quarterly financial results, can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules, application decisions, and purchasing patterns. Any of the foregoing can result in significant demand differences from our expectations, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increased competitive supply can create an imbalance between supply and demand. Generally, fertilizer products are bulk commodities characterized by minimal product differentiation within product categories and customers making their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product quality. Consequently, the market for fertilizer products is subject to competitive pricing pressures and is volatile. Our competitors have undertaken, and may undertake in the future, expansion or greenfield projects to increase fertilizer production capability and may increase production of fertilizer in response to market conditions or otherwise. An increase in the competitive supply of fertilizer that outpaces the growth in world demand generally leads to oversaturation in the market, a reduction in prices (potentially for a prolonged period), and declining capacity utilization. Commodity price volatility varies by product within the fertilizer industry. The nitrogen industry, for example, is generally characterized by many producers around the world, lower capital costs of entry and shorter construction times. As a result, nitrogen is prone to substantial price volatility. In contrast, quality potash deposits are rare and capital costs are very high. Although potash prices have historically been less volatile than nitrogen prices, they have more recently experienced increased volatility as a result of market developments. Transportation and distribution infrastructure, including railcars, ocean freightliners, warehouse and port storage facilities are integral to the delivery of products to our domestic and offshore customers. Any material changes or disruptions in these delivery methods could negatively impact our financial performance. Transportation is a significant element of the sale of our products to customers. Accessing cost effective, timely and dependable transportation and port storage and other distribution facilities is important in allowing us and any export, sales and marketing companies, to supply customers near our operating facilities and around the world. Labor disputes, accidents, adverse weather or other environmental events, short term swings in demand for our products, increased shipping demand for other products, adverse economic conditions, a change in our relationships with other members of export, sales or marketing companies, or changes in credit markets and changes to rail or ocean freight systems could interrupt delivery or limit available transport services, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales or market share, and could negatively affect our financial performance. For example, if Canpotex were to dissolve or its ability to operate became impaired — due to unexpected changes in laws or regulations, market or economic conditions, our (or our venture partners’) businesses, or otherwise — a trusted potash brand would be lost and our access to key offshore markets could be impacted. This could result in a less efficient logistics system and might lead to decreased market share, higher costs or a reduction in net earnings attributable to offshore sales. Changes to our operations (including operating capability) that we make in response to industry conditions are subject to risks and uncertainties. We may respond to changes in our industry and the markets we serve by making operational changes. These activities may include expansion and debottlenecking projects as described above; however, they may also include reductions in workforce, reducing, suspending or ceasing production at certain facilities and closing certain facilities. Such actions are intended to optimize our lowest cost operations while retaining the ability to respond to expected demand levels and product needs of our customers. Risks associated with these changes include not realizing anticipated cost savings, delayed timing of cost savings, employee attraction, development, engagement and retention issues and incurring unanticipated costs. In addition, unexpected surges in demand can negatively impact our ability to operationally respond in a timely manner, adversely affecting our financial performance and reputation. For example, while global potash production rose sharply during 2014, it did not keep pace with the increase in demand. Logistical issues, planned downtime and unplanned outages affected global supply capability, including the Company’s. Failure to prevent or respond to a major safety incident could adversely impact our operations and financial performance. Safety is a fundamental value to us. We engage in mining and industrial activities that can result in serious accidents causing injuries or fatalities. If our safety procedures are not effective, or if an accident occurs, we could be subject to liabilities arising out of personal injuries or death, our operations could be interrupted and we might have to shut down or abandon affected facilities. Accidents could cause us to expend significant managerial time and efforts, and financial resources to remediate safety issues or to repair damaged facilities. Any such accidents could have a negative effect on our financial performance. Environmental laws and regulations significantly impact our operations. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations. We incur significant costs and associated liabilities in connection with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as air emissions, wastewater discharges, land use and reclamation and solid and hazardous waste management. PotashCorp 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K 19 Table of Contents For example, we are dependent on having numerous required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. Denial or delay by a government agency in issuing any of our permits and approvals or imposition of restrictive conditions on us with respect to these permits and approvals may impair our business and operations. Many of the laws, regulations and permit requirements are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Increased regulation, including that of greenhouse gases and other emissions from our operations, could increase our raw material, energy, transportation, and compliance costs and may have a negative effect on our financial performance. For additional information regarding environmental laws and regulations that impact our operations, see the information contained under ‘Business — Environmental Matters’ in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our international operations and investments are subject to additional risks not present in domestic operations. We have operations and investments in countries outside of Canada and the United States. We have a nitrogen production facility in Trinidad. In addition, we have significant investments in entities located in Chile, Jordan, China and Israel. Potash from our Saskatchewan operations for sale outside Canada and the United States is sold exclusively to Canpotex. A significant portion of Canpotex sales are to China, Brazil, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Japan. Historically, these countries have had less stable political environments. Global expansion, market development and operational opportunities with the lowest cost and the highest potential synergies are sometimes located in politically sensitive regions. Inherent business risks within Canada and the United States also exist in foreign countries and may be exaggerated by various risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties and costs associated with differences in culture, laws, regulations, foreign trade policies and fiscal policies; political and economic conditions; forced divestitures; selective discrimination; inconvertibility of funds; currency exchange rate fluctuations; armed conflict; terrorist activity; and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, social, political, labor and economic conditions. Catastrophic events or malicious acts (including terrorism) involving our products or facilities may cause extensive personal injury and property damage. Similar to other companies with major industrial facilities, our operations may be impacted by catastrophic events (such as severe weather or product transportation / storage mishaps) or targets of terrorist activities (or other intentional acts of destruction), any of which could negatively affect our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. As a result of these types of events, our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, leading to a reduction in our operational capability. In addition, employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury, which could result in substantial financial impact on us. Governmental authorities may also impose new regulations impacting the security of our plants, access to pertinent transportation and distribution infrastructure and/or limitations on the sale, use or distribution of our products that could make our operations more difficult or costly. The consequences of any such events could negatively affect our financial performance. Our opportunities to reinvest available capital in strategic opportunities may be limited for geopolitical, market or other reasons, negatively affecting our growth. We identify and pursue growth opportunities through both internal and external development to diversify and extend the portfolio of our businesses. Such opportunities may be limited or inhibited for geopolitical, market or other reasons. We may seek to grow through acquisitions of assets or entities, or interests in other entities, such as our acquisitions of interests in ICL, Sinofert, SQM and APC. There can be no assurances that we will be able to identify any suitable acquisition candidates, and we cannot predict whether we will be successful in pursuing or completing any acquisitions, or what the consequences of not completing any acquisitions would be. In achieving the benefits of any acquisitions, we are dependent upon our ability to successfully consolidate functions and integrate operations, procedures and personnel in a timely and efficient manner and to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and synergies from combining the acquired assets and operations. The integration of acquired assets and operations requires the dedication of management effort, time and resources, which may divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters during this process. The integration process may result in the disruption of our existing business and customer relationships that may adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits, and may negatively impact our operations. We may also consider other growth opportunities such as strategic alliances, evaluation of new products and technologies, or expansion into new markets that complement and extend our portfolio of businesses and capabilities. There can be no assurance that such growth initiatives will result in acceptance by existing or new customers; will be timely completed; represent successful entry into new markets; be beneficial to the Company’s results of operations; or, otherwise achieve their underlying strategic business objectives. Similarly, there can be no assurance that internal capital projects for growth efforts can be completed within the time or at the costs projected due, among other things, to demand for and availability of construction materials and labor and obtaining regulatory approvals and operating permits and reaching agreement on terms of key agreements and arrangements with potential suppliers and customers. Any such 20 PotashCorp 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents inability to achieve objectives, delays or cost overruns or inability to obtain such approvals or to reach such agreements on acceptable terms could negatively affect the returns from any proposed or current investments and projects. We own a non-controlling equity interest in a number of companies, and consequently our results of operations and cash flow may be materially affected by the decisions of third parties. We hold minority ownership interests in several companies, some of which are foreign companies, including ICL, Sinofert, SQM and APC. The operations and results of these investments are significant to us, and their operations can affect our earnings. Because we do not control these companies and because local laws in foreign jurisdictions and contractual obligations may place restrictions on monetary distributions by these companies, we cannot ensure that these companies will operate efficiently, pay dividends, or generally manage their businesses in our best interests. As a result, these companies may contribute less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flow, and may negatively impact our operations. Increases in the price or reduced availability of raw materials that we use (such as natural gas, ammonia and sulfur) could negatively impact our financial performance. Natural gas, ammonia and sulfur are key raw materials for the manufacture of our products and represent a substantial part of our production and energy costs. Natural gas is utilized as both a chemical feedstock and a fuel to produce anhydrous ammonia, which is a key raw material used in the production of our concentrated phosphate products. Natural gas is also a significant energy source used in the potash mining and milling process. We have experienced natural gas availability curtailments at our Trinidad facility over the last several years due to decreased investment in gas exploration and development activity and major maintenance activities being conducted at natural gas facilities. While recent changes in government policy in Trinidad are intended to lead to an increase in natural gas exploration and development activity, we continue to expect curtailments of natural gas. These types of curtailments or other reductions in the availability, and potential increases in price, of raw materials at any of our sites could adversely affect our ability to produce our products on a cost effective basis. The cost of our raw materials may not correlate with changes in the prices we receive for our products, either in the direction of the price change or in absolute magnitude. The price of our raw materials can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability because of additional capacity or limited availability due to curtailments or other operating problems. Other external factors beyond our control can also cause volatility in raw materials prices, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, the level of business activity in the industries that use our products, competitors’ actions, international events and circumstances and governmental regulation in the United States and abroad. As the majority of our products are commodities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass through increased costs of raw materials to our customers through the end products. A significant increase in the price of natural gas, ammonia, sulfur or energy costs that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our products could negatively impact our financial performance. Our information technology systems are subject to cyber security risks. We rely on information technology systems to conduct business, including internal and external communications, ordering and managing shipments of materials for our operations, coordinating transportation of our products and maintaining and reporting our results. Individuals or groups have targeted and may continue to target our information technology systems and the information technology systems of third parties that we rely on, to attempt to access confidential information. The security measures designed to protect our information technology systems may be breached. A breach could result in unauthorized access to our confidential information such as strategic plans or processes. Our efforts to address these problems may not be successful. Our inability to attract, retain, develop and engage skilled employees could negatively affect our performance. Sustaining and growing our business depends on the recruitment, development, retention and engagement of qualified and motivated employees. Although we strive to be an employer of choice in our industry, competition for skilled employees in certain geographical areas in which we operate can be significant and we may not be successful in attracting, retaining or developing such skilled employees. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. In response to market conditions, we have made operating and workforce changes in recent periods. These changes may impact existing employees’ engagement and retention and our ability to attract qualified and motivated employees in the future. The inability to attract, develop, retain or engage quality employees could result in decreased productivity and efficiency, higher costs and reputational harm. It could also negatively impact our ability to take on new projects and sustain operations, which might negatively affect our operations or our ability to grow. Certain complications may arise in our mining process, including water inflows in our potash mines. The mining process is a complex process subject to certain geological conditions and hazards, including industrial and environmental hazards. For example, the presence of water-bearing strata above and below many underground mines poses the risk of water inflows. It is not uncommon for water inflows of PotashCorp 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K 21 Table of Contents varying degrees to occur in potash mines; however, it is difficult to predict if, when, or to what degree, such inflows could occur. At our Saskatchewan potash mines we have minor water inflows that we actively monitor and manage, as appropriate. We also currently manage a significant water inflow at our Penobsquis, New Brunswick mine. Significant inflows at our potash mines could result in increased operational costs, increased the risk of personal injury, production delays or stoppages, or the abandonment and closure of a mine. The risk of underground water inflows, as with other underground risks, is currently not insured. Any of these risks and hazards relating to our mining process could negatively affect our performance. Antitrust laws to which we are subject may change. We are subject to antitrust laws in various countries throughout the world. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. Additionally, increases in crop nutrient prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under these laws. Changes in antitrust laws globally, or the interpretation, administration or enforcement thereof, may limit our future acquisitions or operations, including the operations of Canpotex. Strikes or other forms of work interruption could disrupt our business. A significant portion of our workforce is unionized or otherwise governed by collective bargaining or similar agreements. We are therefore subject to the possibility of organized labor disruptions. Adverse labor relations or contract negotiations that do not result in an agreement could result in strikes, slowdowns or impose additional costs to resolve these disputes. These disruptions may negatively impact our ability to produce or sell our products. These disruptions may also impact our ability to recruit and retain personnel and could negatively affect our performance. Our capital projects involve significant risks. We have recently undertaken significant expansion projects. Our potash expansion projects are nearly complete. The successful completion and ramp up of projects is subject to risks, including cost overruns, difficult construction conditions, shortages of qualified labor, and escalating costs of labor and materials. Completion of our capital projects may also be dependent on the availability and performance of the engineering firms, construction firms, equipment suppliers, and other third parties we retain. As a result, we may not be able to complete or ramp up our projects on the expected terms, cost or schedule. In addition, we cannot be certain that, if completed, we will be able to operate these projects, or that they will perform, in accordance with our expectations. Any of these factors could impair our ability to realize the benefits we had anticipated from the projects. Our expansion may also result in other unanticipated adverse consequences, such as the diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations and other opportunities. Any of the foregoing could negatively impact our financial performance. Reputation damage could negatively affect our performance. Reputation loss is a negative consequence resulting from events and can have a detrimental effect on our performance. Reputation loss extends throughout all risk categories and may result in loss of investor confidence, loss of customer confidence, loss of confidence by our key suppliers or service providers, poor community relations and a decline in employee productivity. Reputation loss could also interfere with our ability to execute our strategies. Future technological innovation could affect our business. Future technological innovation such as development of full or partial substitutes for our products, seeds that require less crop nutrients, or modifications to the application of crop nutrients, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business and may adversely affect our financial performance. Other events may impact our operating results. Our operating results are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting our industry where we or our customers operate. The effects of recent adverse and uncertain economic conditions and changes in the credit and financial markets, including economic and political uncertainty around the world are outside of our control and difficult to accurately determine. As a result of these conditions, our relationships with customers and with external partners upon whom we rely may become less stable. Conditions in the credit markets could negatively affect the ability of our customers to pay or reduce their demand for our products. If our customers’ financial condition reduces demand for our products or our suppliers’ financial condition causes disruptions to our supply chain, our operating results may be negatively affected. We conduct our operations primarily through key production and distribution facilities. A disruption at one of these facilities during periods of high demand for our products could have an adverse impact on our business. We are, and may in the future be, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that could be material to us. These proceedings include matters arising from activities of our predecessor companies and from facilities and businesses that we have never owned or operated. Our operations and the production and handling of our products involve significant risks and hazards. Insurance market conditions, our loss experience and other factors affect the insurance coverage that we carry, and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. Consequently, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses. 22 PotashCorp 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 