Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our performance and future development could be materially affected by a wide range of risk factors. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on the market price of our common stock. We use an integrated risk management framework to identify risks across all segments of the Company, evaluate those risks, and implement strategies designed to mitigate those risks. This process is further described under “Risk Management” on pages 29 and 30 in our 2007 Financial Review, attached as Exhibit 13, incorporated herein by reference. See also note regarding “Forward-Looking Statements,” earlier in this report. Set forth below are the most significant risks and uncertainties that affect the Company and its businesses: Global demand for our products that differs from expectations could adversely affect the results of future operations. We supply product both in North America and offshore and demand for our product is affected by regional and global markets. We predict the future level of demand for our products and attempt to meet growing demand. Accurate predictions allow us to avoid surplus inventory and missed sales opportunities. However, incorrect predictions can lead to rising costs and decreased profits. Growth in demand that exceeds our expectations results in lost opportunity to produce and sell our products and may harm the credibility of our business strategy. Growth in demand below expectations reduces our expected sales and creates excess inventory and unwanted costs. A decrease in demand could result from a variety of factors, including increasing agricultural input costs, depressed commodity prices, adverse weather conditions, economic downturns, foreign currency fluctuations or changes in agricultural practices. Inflows of water into our potash mines, or potash mines in which we have an interest, could result in increased costs and could require us to abandon a mine, either of which could adversely affect the results of our operations. The presence of water-bearing strata in many underground mines carries the risk of water inflows into such mines. It is difficult to predict if water inflow will occur at our mines or mines in which we have an interest. We are currently managing water inflows at our New Brunswick mine, while ongoing water inflows are being managed at the Esterhazy mine, in which we have an interest in the mineral rights. Additional water inflows at these or other mines could increase the costs required to operate such mines, injure our employees or lead to the abandonment of a mine. The risk of underground water inflows, similar to other underground risks, is not insurable. The Company may be adversely affected by changing anti-trust laws to which it is subject. We are subject to anti-trust laws in various countries throughout the world. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. Changes in anti-trust laws globally, or the interpretation, administration or enforcement thereof, may limit our future acquisitions, or the operations of Canpotex and PhosChem. New product supply can create a structural market imbalance, which could reduce our profits. Many of our products are commodities and the markets for these products are highly competitive. We compete with other producers on price, product quality and service. An increase in the competitive supply of our products that FORM 10-K ï Part I Page 25 Table of Contents outpaces the growth in world consumption could depress prices for a prolonged period and could negatively affect the Company’s financial performance. Potash With rising prices for potash products, producers have been, and will likely continue to be, engaged in expansion and development projects to increase production. Many of the proposed projects to increase potash production are speculative. However, a potash supply increase beyond market demand could depress prices and negatively affect the Company’s financial performance. Nitrogen The barriers to entry into the nitrogen business are relatively low. Nitrogen is taken from the air and reacted with a hydrogen source, usually natural gas reformed with steam, to produce ammonia. Ammonia is then used to produce nitrogen products for a wide variety of uses. Countries with large reserves of natural gas and low production costs can produce a large supply of ammonia cheaply for the export market. While the Company’s lower cost nitrogen operations in Trinidad provide us with advantages, the Company is affected by the higher cost natural gas markets in the United States. Phosphate Phosphate producers are both private and government enterprises. In addition, governments influence a significant proportion of world capacity for diammonium phosphate (“DAP”), the major phosphate fertilizer product. Through subsidy, control or ownership, governments may encourage overproduction of DAP. Furthermore, governments may forego profit on DAP sales to support domestic employment. Such policies increase the risk of a supply/demand imbalance and could lower prices for our products. Cyclicality in supply and demand can result in unfavorable market conditions and lower profits. The market for crop nutrients, particularly certain phosphate and nitrogen products, tends to move in cycles. Periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization generally lead to new plant investment and increased production. This growth increases supply until the market is over-saturated, leading to declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. This cyclicality in prices can result in supply/demand imbalances, pressure on prices, profit margins and profitable operations; and, eventually, shutdown costs. The fertilizer business is dependent on conditions in the economy generally and the agriculture sector in particular, both in North America and offshore. The agricultural sector can be affected by adverse weather conditions, cost of inputs, commodity prices, animal diseases, the availability of government support programs and other uncertainties that may affect sales of fertilizer products, and in turn affects our financial performance. The Company is subject to risks associated with international operations, which could negatively affect sales to customers in foreign countries as well as the operations and assets in such countries. The Company has operations and investments in countries outside of Canada and the United States. Historically, these countries have had less stable political environments. We have a nitrogen production facility in Trinidad. In addition, we have significant investments in SQM, APC, Sinofert and ICL. Additionally, potash from our Saskatchewan operations for sale outside Canada and the United States is sold exclusively to Canpotex, which acts as an export marketing and sales company. A significant portion of Canpotex sales are to China. Other key offshore customers are located in Brazil, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Japan. Risks inherent in doing business inside Canada and the United States also exist in foreign countries and may be exaggerated by differences in culture, laws and regulations. Moreover, global expansion opportunities with the lowest cost and the highest synergies are sometimes located in politically sensitive regions. Political and economic conditions, foreign trade policies, fiscal policies, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments may affect performance and development of our operations and investments. Our operations and investments may be affected by FORM 10-K ï Part I Page 26 Table of Contents abrupt political change, forced divestiture, selective discrimination, inconvertibility of funds, armed conflict, terrorist activity and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, social, political, labor and economic conditions. Inadequate transportation and distribution infrastructure and capacity could limit our growth and, a shortage of railcars and bulk ships and increased transit time could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher transportation costs. Inadequate transportation and distribution infrastructure and capacity could limit our growth. We rely heavily upon railcars, ocean freightliners, warehouse and port storage facilities to transport and distribute product to our customers. Transportation is a significant part of the final sale price of our products and some of our customers require just-in-time delivery. Finding affordable and dependable transportation is important in allowing us to supply customers close to our operating facilities and customers around the world. Labor disputes, derailments, adverse weather or other environmental events, short term swings in demand for potash and changes to rail or ocean freight systems could interrupt or limit available transport services, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales potential and could negatively affect our financial performance. Strong demand for grain and other products affects railcar availability. A shortage of railcars for carrying product and increased transit time in North America may result in inability to deliver on a timely basis, customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and higher transportation costs. A strong world economy fuels increased demand and higher dry bulk freight rates for ocean transport. The shipping industry has a shortage of ships and the substantial time frame needed to build new ships prevents rapid market response. Delays and missed shipments relying on ocean freight could result in customer dissatisfaction and loss of sales potential and could negatively affect our financial performance. Deliberate, malicious acts involving our products or facilities or downstream product mishaps may expose employees, contractors or the public to extensive injury, cause property damage or affect the Company’s reputation. Intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and interrupt our supply chain. Facilities could be damaged leading to a reduction in our operational production capacity. Employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury. The consequences of any such actions could damage our reputation, negatively affecting our sales and profits. Strikes or other forms of work stoppage or slowdown could disrupt our business and lead to increased costs. Our financial performance is dependent on a reliable and productive work force. Unsuccessful contract negotiations or adverse labor relations could result in strikes or slowdowns. These disruptions may decrease our production and sales or impose additional costs to resolve disputes. The risk of adverse labor relations may increase during periods of high profitability because labor unions’ expectations and demands generally rise at those times. Damage to our reputation could negatively affect our performance. Loss of our reputation can be the consequence of a number of events. Reputation loss cuts across all risk categories and may result in loss of investor confidence, loss of customer confidence, poor community relations and employee apathy. Loss of our reputation could interfere with our ability to execute our strategies. Reputation loss is a negative consequence resulting from these or other risks and can have a detrimental affect on our performance. Other risks may hurt our operating results. In addition to the above, other risks may affect our performance including unexpected or adverse weather conditions; price risks associated with feedstocks, including natural gas and sulfur; other hedging activities; changes in capital markets and corresponding effects on our investments, including our investments in auction rate securities; changes in currencies and exchange rates; unexpected geological or environmental conditions; legal proceedings; changes in, and the effects of, government policy and regulation, including environmental regulations and greenhouse gas regulations and regulations and actions affecting our transportation and sale of natural gas; inherent risks in industrial operations, FORM 10-K ï Part I Page 27 Table of Contents including inability to obtain insurance for underground operations; inappropriate handling and transportation of some of our products by customers or carriers; and future acquisitions by the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 