Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from past results or from our anticipated future results. Our results for 2010 may be negatively impacted by the current global economic conditions and uncertainties. In 2009 our business was adversely impacted by the world-wide economic downturn. The uncertainty concerning the potential duration and depth of this downturn persists as we enter 2010. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In addition, our customers and suppliers also may face credit and debt issues, which could have an adverse effect on their operations. A continued global economic downturn will likely have an adverse effect on our revenue, operating results and cash flow. In addition we could experience decreased demand for our products, increased risk of excess inventories, and increased risk in the collectability of accounts receivable from our customers. If we are unable to introduce new products, including more-value added products, our future operating results may decrease. Our future operating results are dependent on the timely development, customer acceptance, production, introduction and marketing of new products, including more-value added products. The time lag between our customer’s acceptance of our product (a design win) and the receipt of production orders affects the timing of our sales growth and operating results. We have continuing sales of older/mature products that tend to decline in average selling prices over the product life cycle. By developing these new products, we can replace and/or offset the impact of the lower average selling prices of the older/mature products. The future demand for our products depends in a large part to growth of the markets that incorporate our frequency control products. These markets are cyclical and have experienced a modest increase in product demand in recent years. The future demand for our products depends in a large part to growth of the markets that incorporate our frequency control products. These markets include telecommunications equipment, computers and computer peripheral and scientific instrumentation. A decline in the demand for products in these markets could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. 8 A significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a few customers. The loss of one or more of our significant customers could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In 2009, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 32% of our sales compared to 39% in 2008. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or a reduction in sales to any one of them could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. All our sales are made on a purchase order basis and we do not have long-term purchase contracts with our customers. As a result, our customers may cancel or change delivery dates within a specific period of time without penalty. A significant portion of our revenues are to Electronics Manufacturing Services (EMS) companies. If we fail to successfully obtain orders from the EMS companies, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively affected. Approximately 34% of the Company’s sales in 2009 were to EMS companies. There is a continuing trend among original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to outsource the manufacture of their product to EMS companies. We first work with and receive design wins from OEMs. We then have to negotiate pricing, quantities and delivery with the EMS companies. If we fail to successfully obtain orders from the EMS companies, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively affected. We rely upon one supplier for a significant portion of our revenue. Approximately 14% of our 2009 revenue was attributable to products manufactured by one supplier and expect this supplier to account for a similar percentage of our 2010 revenue. We do not have a written, long-term supply contract with this supplier. If this supplier is not able or not willing to manufacture and deliver products on time and at quantities and prices acceptable we may be forced to manufacture the products internally or find other replacement suppliers. We could encounter difficulties in finding another source for these products based on the current supplier’s product knowledge and process capability. As a result, a significant change in the supplier’s manufacturing capability or in our relationship with this supplier our operating results and financial condition co uld be negatively affected. There is a limited market and limited trading activity for our common shares. The purchase or sale of a relatively small number of shares could result in significant share price fluctuations. There is a limited public market and limited trading activity for our common shares. Directors and executive officers currently beneficially own 39% of the outstanding shares on a fully diluted basis. 5% holders, other than our directors and executive officers, and institutional holders own approximately 25% of the outstanding shares. During 2009, the average trading volume of our common stock was approximately 2,800 shares per day. As a result of the low trading volume and the limited outstanding float, the purchase or sale of a relatively small number of shares could result in significant share price fluctuations. 9 We may make an acquisition that is not successful. As part of our business strategy, we continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or provide additional product offerings or technologies. We may have difficulty finding these opportunities or, if we do find an opportunity, we may not be able to complete the transaction for reasons including a failure to secure financing, if necessary. Any transaction we are able to complete may involve a number of risks including, but not limited to: · the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired business, · the possible adverse effects on the Company’s operating results during the integration period, · the loss of key employees, customers and vendors as a result of the change in management, and · our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. Our success depends on our ability to retain our existing management and technical team and to recruit and retain qualified technical, sales and marketing and management personnel. Our future growth and success will depend in a large part on our ability to retain our existing management and technical team and to recruit and retain qualified technical, sales and marketing and management personnel. Competition for qualified employees in our industry is at times intense. The loss of any of these key personnel or our inability to attract and retain these key employees to operate and expand our business could adversely affect our operations. We face global business, political and economic risks which may adversely affect us. We sell our products to customers and purchase inventory from vendors located outside of the United States. As a result, we face global business, political and economic risks which may adversely affect us. These risks include, but are not limited to: · political and economic instability in countries where our products are sold or manufactured, · expropriation or the imposition of government controls, · export license requirements, · trade restrictions, · high levels of inflation or deflation, · greater difficulty in collecting our accounts receivable and longer payment terms, · less favorable intellectual property laws, and · increases in duties. 10 In addition, these same factors may also place us at a competitive disadvantage to some of our foreign competitors. To date, very few of our international transactions have been denominated in foreign currency. As a result, a change in the value of the US dollar relative to the foreign currencies could make our products more expensive, and thus less competitive. We may find it necessary in the future from a competitive position to complete transactions denominated in foreign currency. This will subject us with the risks associated with fluctuations in these foreign currencies. Our markets are highly competitive, and we may lose business to larger and better financed competitors. Our markets are highly competitive worldwide with few import barriers. Foreign competitors, particularly from the Far East, continue to dominate the U.S. and world markets. We compete primarily on our quality, strong design and application engineering, responsive customer service and a willingness to provide specialty small quantity orders. Our major competitors, most of which are larger than we are, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support capabilities than we have. Certain Directors and Executive Officers Beneficially Own a Substantial Portion of Our Common Stock and May Be in a Position to Determine the Outcome of Our Corporate Elections Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers, beneficially own 39% of the currently outstanding shares of Common Stock on a fully diluted basis. By virtue of such ownership, such members of the Board and Management including Ted Valpey, Jr. may have the practical ability to determine the election of all directors and control the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to our stockholders. Such concentration of ownership could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from seeking to acquire, control of us. Compliance with changing corporate governance and public disclosure regulations may result in additional expenses. Compliance with the changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules, requires significant management attention and has increased our professional fee expense. We will incur additional general and administrative expenses as we continue the ongoing evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting as we comply with Section 404 of SOX. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 11 