Item 1A. Risk Factors. Described below are certain risks that we believe are applicable to our business and the industry in which we operate. There may be additional risks applicable to our business that are not presently material or known. There are also risks within the economy and the capital markets, both domestically and internationally, that affect business generally, including us and other companies in our industry, such as inflation; higher interest rates; higher fuel and other energy costs; higher transportation costs; higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; and higher levels of unemployment, which have not been described. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. The following risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and from results predicted by forward-looking statements made by us related to conditions or events that we anticipate may occur in the future. All of our forward-looking statements made us are qualified by the risks described below. The following should not be construed as an exhaustive list of all factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. The ceiling fan and lighting industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. We compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, which could allow them to compete more successfully than us. Most of our products are available from several other sources, and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. Manufacturers could also increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and bypass distributors like us. In the future, we may be unable to compete successfully, and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. If we fail to gain customer acceptance of our existing and new products, our operating results could suffer. We sell our products primarily to lighting showrooms and mass merchandisers. If we fail to successfully introduce new products that are accepted by our customers, our operating results may be adversely affected. As we do not manufacture the products that we distribute, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of high quality competitive products on a timely basis. We obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers in China and Taiwan. We currently purchase a substantial amount of ceiling fans and other products of the Craftmade segment from Fanthing Electrical Corp. (“Fanthing”), a Taiwanese company. The following table summarizes the Company’s purchases from Fanthing: Summary of Purchases from Fanthing (Dollars in thousands) As % of As % of Craftmade Total Fiscal Year Ended Purchases Purchases June 30, 2006 50% 23% June 30, 2005 60% 29% June 30, 2004 67% 21% 8 Table of Contents We do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. Most of our products are imported from suppliers under short-term purchase orders that we place with them. Therefore, our suppliers may not provide us with the products we need in the quantities that we request. Because we do not control the actual production of the products that we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control. Political or financial instability, merchandise quality issues, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transportation capacity and costs, inflation, outbreak of pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. In the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide us with products in the volumes that we require, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all, or at costs acceptable to us. An extended interruption in the supply of our products would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. A decline in general economic condition, particularly the housing, home construction, and remodel sectors, could lead to reduced demand for the Company’s products. General economic conditions in the U.S., including the housing and home construction sectors, are affected by, among other things consumer spending habits, levels of employment, salary and wage rates, prevailing interest rates, income tax rates and policies, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. A decline in general economic conditions in the U.S. could lead to a reduced demand for our products. The loss of certain of our customers that represent a significant percentage of our net sales could adversely affect our results of operations. All of TSI’s net sales, including the net sales of PHI and Design Trends, are made to mass merchandisers with two customers comprising the most significant portion of TSI’s and our consolidated net sales, as follows: Lowe’s Companies Wal-Mart Percent of Percent of Percent of Percent of TSI’s Consolidated TSI’s Consolidated Fiscal Year Ended Net Sales Net Sales Net Sales Net Sales June 30, 2006 87% 41% 12% 6% June 30, 2005 83% 44% 20% 11% June 30, 2004 75% 42% 15% 8% The loss of or reduction in our orders from Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (“Lowe’s), Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), or any other significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results, as could disputes with our customers regarding shipments, fees, product condition or related matters. Our inability to collect accounts receivable from any of these customers could also have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. If net sales to these customers are at levels significantly lower than currently anticipated, we would be required to find other customers for existing inventory on hand. There can be no assurances that we would be able to obtain additional customers for this inventory or that any alternative sources would generate similar sales levels and profit margins as anticipated with these current mass merchandiser customers. We do not have long-term sales agreements with or other contractual assurances as to future sales from any of our customers. Our customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance and their desired inventory levels. Changes in our customers’ strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products (unless we provide such products) may adversely affect our net sales. Additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If our net sales of products to one or more of our customers are reduced, this reduction may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our mass merchandise customers may pressure us to lower our prices or take other actions that may adversely impact our results of operations. Mass merchandisers, including Lowe’s and Wal-Mart, require various stipulations from its vendors related to inventory practices, product reset costs, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. For example, Wal-Mart and other customers have indicated a desire to utilize Radio Frequency Identification (“RFID”) technology in an effort to improve tracking and management of product in their supply chain. Large-scale implementation of this technology would significantly increase our product manufacturing and distribution costs. Meeting these types of demands of customers may adversely affect our margins and results of operations. If we fail to effectively respond to these types of demands of our customers, our sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. To the extent our mass merchandiser customers purchase product in excess of consumer consumption in any period, our net sales in a subsequent period may be adversely affected as mass merchandisers seek to reduce their inventory levels. From time to time, mass merchandisers may purchase more product from us than they expect to sell to consumers during a particular time period. If mass merchandisers increase their inventory during a particular reporting period, then our sales during the subsequent reporting period may be adversely impacted as these mass merchandisers seek to reduce their inventory to usual levels. To the extent our customers seek to reduce their usual or customary inventory levels, the impact of such “de-inventorying” on our sales and profitability would be even greater. Increases in our shipping costs or service trouble with our third-party shippers could harm our business. Shipping is a significant expense in our business for the products we import from manufacturers and the products we ship to customers. Any significant increase we experience in our shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. We experience fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline or be highly volatile. Our product sales, particularly ceiling fans, are subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. Our net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the first and fourth quarters from the warmer weather during these months. Our quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: • the timing of our new product releases; • costs related to our acquisitions and/or integrations of businesses that we may acquire; • timing and amount of our sales and marketing expenditures; • timing of our orders from mass merchandisers; • our commitments to mass merchandisers; • loss of any of our sales representatives; • general economic conditions that may affect us, including those in the housing sector; • establishing or maintaining our business relationships; and • changes in our accounting principles. These and other factors could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and this makes the prediction of our financial results on a quarterly basis difficult. In addition, the NASDAQ Global Market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating 10 Table of Contents performance of the companies listed on NASDAQ. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which would harm us. Our failure in pursuing or executing any of our new business ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our growth strategy includes expansion through new business ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions. While we employ several different valuation methodologies to assess a potential growth opportunity, and structuring favorable payout strategies to lower risk, we can give no assurance that any of our new business ventures and strategic alliances will positively affect our financial performance. Any acquisitions that we make may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital and management’s attention from our other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to integrate companies that we acquire successfully, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. If we fail to integrate companies that we acquire successfully, our business could suffer materially. We may also encounter challenges in achieving appropriate internal control over our financial reporting in connection with our integration of an acquired company. In addition, our efforts to integrate any acquired company, and its financial results, into our company may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as key customers, vendors, and manufacturers of the products that we distribute to our customers. Our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as key customers, vendors and manufacturers. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with these parties or fail to acquire relationships with others like them in the future, our business may suffer. Our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management and retention of key personnel. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, motivate, and retain key management and personnel. We depend upon the continued services of our key executive officers, including the following individuals: James R. Ridings Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Brad D. Heimann President and Chief Operating Officer J. Marcus Scrudder Chief Financial Officer John S. DeBlois Executive Vice President of TSI Clifford F. Crimmings Vice President of Marketing The loss of services of any of our key personnel could have a negative impact on our business. Our inability to meet financial covenants contained in our credit facilities could adversely impact our ability to fund our operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our planned capital expenditures, acquisitions, and dividends will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operating activities or that future borrowings will be available under our credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The Company’s credit facility contains restrictive covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to satisfy those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will satisfy those ratios. A breach by us of any of these financial ratio covenants or other 11 Table of Contents covenants could result in our being in default under our credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, by us, our lenders could elect to declare the applicable outstanding indebtedness due immediately and payable and terminate all commitments to us to extend further credit. We cannot be sure that our lenders would waive a default or that we could pay the outstanding indebtedness in full under our credit facility if it were accelerated by our lenders. We are exposed to the risk of an increase in interest rates. We do not have any agreements with third parties to hedge against the potential rising of interest rates. The variable rates of interest on our credit facility are comprised of LIBOR plus the spread as defined by the loan agreements. As a result of our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates. We are exposed to the risk of foreign currency appreciation. Generally, we purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source our products from overseas manufacturers in Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China. As a result, our costs of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. These foreign currencies include the Taiwan dollar and Chinese yuan. We cannot be assured that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect the Company’s net earnings and tax liabilities. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, we cannot give assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities, or that we would be successful in any such challenge. We rely heavily on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. If our systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if we experience an interruption in our operations, we could be materially adversely affected. The efficient operation of our company is dependent on our management information systems. We rely heavily on our management information systems to manage our order entry, order fulfillment, pricing, point-of-sale, and inventory replenishment processes. The failure of our management information systems to perform as anticipated could disrupt our business and could result in decreased revenue, increased overhead costs, and excess or out-of-stock inventory levels, causing us to suffer materially. We are subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting, and tax requirements that has increased our costs and the risk of our not being in compliance with these requirements. We are subject to rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of our management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We also are subject to periodic audits or other reviews by these governmental agencies and external auditors. These examinations or reviews frequently require management’s time and diversion of internal resources and, in the event of an unfavorable outcome to us, may result in additional liabilities or adjustments to our historical financial results. 12 Table of Contents Recent changes in accounting rules, including the expensing of stock options granted to our employees, could have a material impact on our reported business and financial results. The U.S. generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the PCAOB, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 