Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains, and our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and written or oral statements made by our officers and directors to press, potential investors, securities analysts and others, may contain, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are predictions and generally can be identified by use of statements that include phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “foresee” or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe or contain information related to matters such as our intent, belief, or expectation with respect to financial performance, claims resolution, cash availability, stock redemption plans, contract awards and performance, potential acquisitions and joint ventures, and cost-cutting measures are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements often reflect a number of assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated in these forward-looking statements. In light of these risks and uncertainties, including those described below, the forward-looking events might or might not occur. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 5 We face significant contingencies, which may adversely impact our ability to fund our continuing operations and to undertake new operations. We do not have a significant business plan beyond Kaiser-Hill, and we may undertake new activities with start-up and other risks. Our long-term future profitability will be dependent, to a significant degree, on the extent to which we carry out activities other than through Kaiser-Hill, particularly since Kaiser-Hill has entered the closeout phase of its contract with the DOE and we have received most of the funds we expect to receive from our investment in Kaiser-Hill. Unless and until we further develop plans for such operations, we are unable to determine either the amount of risk that future operations will involve or whether we have the ability to realize long-term profitability. The business opportunities we have begun to explore, such as completion of the process to enable MS Builders Insurance Company to offer derivative captive insurance services, are in the development stage, are dependent to some extent on external market factors, may take a long time to develop, and may never be profitable or successful at all. As of June 30, 2006, we closed down the operations of KAMS, which we had established in 2004, and we may have similar experiences with other business opportunities that we undertake. We currently have no active operations and are exploring potential acquisition and other strategic opportunities. However, we may not be able to identify attractive acquisition or strategic opportunities for our company. In addition, efforts we make to develop business operations separate from Kaiser-Hill may involve start-up activities with risks specific to activities of this type, or may involve activities with which we are not familiar, any of which may adversely impact our financial condition, cash flow and operating results. A decrease in our cash flows and operating results could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. We have had to, and may continue to have to, draw down existing cash balances to fund current operating cash needs. In light of physical completion of Kaiser-Hill’s contract with the DOE, until and unless the Company is successful in developing a new revenue base through new commercial activities or undertakings, it is anticipated that the Company will need to rely on existing cash balances to fund its continuing operations, including overhead costs. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company generated $0.2 million in gross revenues from its KAMS operations and $1.9 million in interest income while generating operating losses of $7.9 million, which were funded by cash on hand. This draw down in cash balances could result in a decrease in the value of Kaiser Common Stock. Furthermore, if the Company does not establish new operating activities, its existing cash balances could become insufficient to satisfy its overhead costs. The Company has not identified an attractive potential acquisition or strategic opportunity in the last year, and management cannot predict if and when such opportunity may arise. In the meantime, the Company generated no revenues in the second half of 2006, after closing KAMS as of June 2006. If the Company does not begin to generate revenues again, it will continue to operate at a loss and will be required to fund all of its operating costs with cash on hand. If we receive the necessary stockholder approval and decide to proceed with the reverse stock split following the 2007 annual stockholders meeting, we will deregister our common stock under the Exchange Act, which will reduce the amount of information about us that is publicly available and will further decrease the liquidity of our common stock. If we receive the necessary stockholder approval at our 2007 annual meeting to implement the proposed reverse stock split and decide to proceed with the reverse stock split, we will attempt to terminate the registration of our common stock under the Exchange Act. If we were to deregister our common stock under the Exchange Act, we would no longer be required to file information with the SEC or provide certain information to our stockholders under the Exchange Act, and many provisions of the Exchange Act would become inapplicable to us. Therefore, deregistration will substantially reduce the information we would be required to furnish to our stockholders. If successful, the reverse stock split will result in use of cash to redeem any fractional shares resulting from the reverse stock split. Furthermore, our common stock is currently traded on the Pink Sheets. Broker-dealers often decline to trade in Pink Sheet stocks given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risks to investors are greater. These factors may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors, and if we deregister our common stock, the number of potential investors may be reduced further. The market for our common stock has been relatively illiquid in the past, and deregistration may make it even more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our stock will continue to trade on the Pink Sheets. We may be unsuccessful in implementing and funding an acceptable benefits funding plan to satisfy our obligation to provide future benefits to a fixed group of retirees. The Company remains obligated to continue to fulfill the provisions of Old Kaiser’s previously curtailed benefits plan, which provides certain medical and death benefits to a group of retirees. All of the benefits derived from the plan are fully covered by the Company’s self-insurance. Since the December 2000 approval of the reorganization plan, the Company has been negotiating with the Official Committee of Retirees (“OCR”) appointed by the Bankruptcy Court to design and implement a benefits funding plan that would provide for all retiree benefit obligations going forward. In an adversary claim hearing in the Bankruptcy Court held on April 12, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court accepted the Company’s proposal to establish a Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association 6 (“VEBA”) to fund retirees’ future medical and death benefits in the present value amount of approximately $6.1 million. The present value pension obligation of $0.3 million will continue to be funded directly by the Company. Furthermore, according to the terms of the Bankruptcy Court decision, after the VEBA has been in place for five years, the Company will be required to undertake an actuarial analysis of the projected net present value of benefits remaining to be paid out. If the remaining VEBA fund amount is then not sufficient to pay the estimated present value benefits obligation, then the Company will be required to contribute the estimated shortfall amount to the VEBA fund. It is not possible to predict at this time whether a shortfall in the VEBA fund would exist after a period of five years and, if so, what the Company’s contribution requirement for a shortfall amount would be in this circumstance. A requirement to fund a significant shortfall in the VEBA fund could result in a decrease in the value of Kaiser Common Stock. We may be unable to obtain performance guarantees, which may limit our ability to undertake new activities. Given the reorganization history of Old Kaiser, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory contract performance guaranty mechanisms, such as performance bonds and letters of credit, on satisfactory terms or at all, to the extent such mechanisms are needed for new activities and projects. These factors could limit the nature of the business activities in which we can engage, which may adversely impact our cash flow and operating results and result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. We may be unable to generate funds to meet our cash flow needs, and we may be unable to access additional capital. We may be unable to continue to generate sufficient funds to meet our cash flow needs. In the event our cash needs exceed our current estimates, we may not be able to obtain additional capital to meet those needs on favorable terms, or at all. In particular, due to the reorganization history of Old Kaiser and current financial markets, additional capital may not be available to us. An inability to gain access to additional capital could also limit our ability to undertake new activities. Ultimately, an inability to meet our existing obligations or to undertake new activities could adversely impact our cash flow and operating results. A decrease in our cash flows and operating results could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Our remaining primary source of funding has been and continues to be distributions from Kaiser-Hill, which is subject to uncertainties that may adversely impact the potential value of our common stock. There are risks associated with the resolution of additional financial and administrative contract closeout issues that may affect the timing and award of future cash distributions from Kaiser-Hill to the Company. On October 13, 2005, Kaiser-Hill declared physical completion of the cleanup and closure of the DOE’s Rocky Flats site. Kaiser-Hill has withheld approximately $3.6 million from the DOE final distribution, pending resolution of certain financial and administrative contract closeout issues, including those associated with the Kaiser-Hill cost reconciliation process. It is possible that there will be disputes between the DOE and Kaiser-Hill as to how these issues should be addressed and dealt with. Such disputes could delay or reduce future distributions of cash from Kaiser-Hill to the Company and could cause a decrease in the value of our common stock. There are potential risks associated with U.S. Government audits of Kaiser-Hill which could result in disallowed costs or cost reclassifications requiring refunds of cash from Kaiser-Hill to the DOE. As the contract between Kaiser-Hill and the DOE contains cost reimbursement provisions, the costs invoiced by Kaiser-Hill for reimbursement by the DOE are subject to audit by the U.S. Government. Government audits of costs invoiced by Kaiser-Hill are ongoing and are expected to take many years to complete. Although Kaiser-Hill has historically provided its estimates of disallowed costs, uncertainties exist with regard to the government audit of Kaiser-Hill. To the extent that costs are disallowed and cash refunds are made to the DOE, future cash distributions from Kaiser-Hill to the Company would be reduced and could cause a decrease in the value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 7 