Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains, and our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and written or oral statements made by our officers and directors to press, potential investors, securities analysts and others, may contain, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are predictions and generally can be identified by use of statements that include phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “foresee” or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe or contain information related to matters such as our intent, belief, or expectation with respect to financial performance, claims resolution, cash availability, stock redemption plans, contract awards and performance, potential acquisitions and joint ventures, and cost-cutting measures are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements often reflect a number of assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated in these forward-looking statements. In light of these risks and uncertainties, including those described below, the forward-looking events might or might not occur. Our remaining primary source of funding is distributions from Kaiser-Hill and possible recovery of our claim against Nova Hut, which are subject to uncertainties that may adversely impact the potential value of our common stock. There are risks associated with the resolution of administrative issues surrounding certain Kaiser-Hill employee pension and post-retirement benefits, along with additional administrative contract closeout issues, that may affect the timing and award of future cash distributions from Kaiser-Hill to the Company. On October 13, 2005, Kaiser-Hill declared physical completion of the cleanup and closure of the DOE’s Rocky Flats site. As a result, on January 11, 2006, Kaiser-Hill received payment from the DOE for all remaining performance fees, less a retained amount equaling $5.0 million, which was retained by the DOE for possible contract contingencies. Kaiser-Hill has further withheld $17.3 million in cash from this final distribution, pending resolution with the DOE of administrative issues associated with certain Kaiser-Hill employee pension and post-retirement benefits, as well as further administrative contract closeout issues. It is possible that there will be disputes between the DOE and Kaiser-Hill as to how these issues should be addressed and dealt with. Such disputes could delay or reduce future distributions of cash from Kaiser-Hill to the Company and could cause a decrease in the value of our common stock. There are potential risks associated with U.S. Government audits of Kaiser-Hill which could result in disallowed costs or cost reclassifications requiring refunds of cash from Kaiser-Hill to the DOE. As the contract between Kaiser-Hill and the DOE contains cost reimbursement provisions, the costs invoiced by Kaiser-Hill for reimbursement by the DOE are subject to audit by the U.S. Government. Government audits of costs invoiced by Kaiser-Hill are ongoing. Although Kaiser-Hill has historically provided its estimates of disallowed costs, uncertainties exist with regard to the government audit of Kaiser-Hill. To the extent that costs are disallowed and cash refunds are made to the DOE, future cash distributions from Kaiser-Hill to the Company would be reduced and could cause a decrease in the value of our common stock. 5 We cannot predict the outcome or timing of a decision and a potential award from the International Chamber of Commerce. The Company has pending an arbitration award decision from the International Chamber of Commerce concerning a turnkey engineering and construction services contract for construction of a steel mini-mill in the Czech Republic for Nova Hut. In this proceeding, the Company has submitted a claim for $67.5 million dollars and Nova Hut has submitted a counterclaim for $49.7 million. At present, we do not expect a decision to be issued by the International Chamber of Commerce until the second quarter of 2006 and there is no way of predicting what the decision will be. Should an award decision be made that is not favorable to the Company, such a decision may have an adverse impact on the value of the Company’s common stock. In the case of a favorable decision, the Company will still have to pursue collection of the award. It is not possible to predict whether any award that is favorable to the Company (if any) would be collectible or how long collection efforts, even if successful, would take. We face significant contingencies, which may adversely impact our ability to fund our continuing operations and to undertake new operations. We may be unsuccessful in negotiating an acceptable benefits funding plan to satisfy our obligation to provide future benefits to a fixed group of retirees. The Company remains obligated to continue to fulfill the provisions of Old Kaiser’s previously curtailed benefits plan, which provides certain medical and death benefits to a group of retirees. All of the benefits derived from the plan are fully covered by the Company’s self-insurance. Since the December 2000 approval of the Plan of Reorganization, the Company has been negotiating with the Delaware Bankruptcy Court-appointed Official Committee of Retirees (OCR) to design and implement a benefits funding plan that would provide for all retiree benefit obligations going forward. As of March 20, 2006, no agreement had been reached on such a plan. The OCR recently has filed a motion seeking approval of an agreement it claims to have reached with the Company regarding these issues. Since that filing, negotiations regarding an acceptable benefits funding plan have continued. Should the Company and the OCR not reach an agreement, it is expected that the OCR will continue to pursue satisfaction of its claim in the Delaware Bankruptcy Court in April 2006. The OCR is expected to seek to impose settlement on the basis of a guaranteed benefits plan through the establishment of special type of trust commonly referred to as a VEBA, or Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association. The Company could potentially incur high administrative costs, up to $3.0 million, to establish a VEBA to administer retiree benefits on the basis of the criteria requested by the OCR. Such administrative costs would be in addition to the present value of the promised benefits. The company may also be required to provide for a higher benefit funding amount than currently estimated, if the bankruptcy court agrees with the OCR that a lower discount rate should be used to calculate benefits. For its part, the Company is seeking to negotiate a less costly VEBA or other mechanism to fully underwrite all retiree benefits. At this point, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of this matter. If we are not successful in negotiating an acceptable benefits funding plan and a settlement is imposed on us by the Bankruptcy Court, our cash flows and our operating results could be adversely impacted. We do not have a significant business plan beyond Kaiser-Hill, and we may undertake new activities with start-up risks. Our long-term future profitability will be dependent, to a significant degree, on the extent to which we carry out activities other than through Kaiser-Hill, particularly since Kaiser-Hill has entered the closeout phase of its contract with the DOE, and we have received most of the funds we expect to receive from our investment in Kaiser-Hill. Unless and until we further develop plans for such operations, we are unable to determine either the amount of risk that future operations will involve or whether we have the ability to realize long-term profitability. The business opportunities we have begun to explore, such as the establishment of KAMS and our completion of the process to enable MS Builders Insurance Company to offer derivative captive insurance services, are in very early stages, may take a long time to develop, and may never be profitable or successful at all. Our efforts to develop business operations, separate from Kaiser-Hill involve start-up activities with risks specific to activities of this type, which may adversely impact our cash flow and operating results. A decrease in our cash flows and operating results could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. We may be unable to obtain performance guarantees, which may limit our ability to undertake new activities. Given the reorganization history of Old Kaiser, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory contract performance guaranty mechanisms, such as performance bonds and letters of credit, on satisfactory terms or at all, to the extent such mechanisms are needed for new activities and projects. These factors could limit the nature of the business activities in which we can engage, which may adversely impact our cash flow and operating results and result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. 6 We may be unable to generate funds to meet our cash flow needs, and we may be unable to access additional capital. We may be unable to continue to generate sufficient funds to meet our cash flow needs. In the event our cash needs exceed our current estimates, we may not be able to obtain additional capital to meet those needs on favorable terms, or at all. In particular, due to the reorganization history of Old Kaiser and current financial markets, additional capital may not be available to us. An inability to gain access to additional capital could also limit our ability to undertake new activities. Ultimately, an inability to meet our existing obligations or to undertake new activities could adversely impact our cash flow and operating results. A decrease in our cash flows and operating results could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. We may have to draw down existing cash balances to fund current operating cash needs. In light of physical completion of Kaiser-Hill’s contract with the DOE, until and unless the Company is successful in developing a new revenue base through new commercial activities or undertakings, it is anticipated that the Company will need to rely on existing cash balances to fund its continuing operations, including overhead costs. This draw down in cash balances could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 