Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results from operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. We operate in cyclical industries, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations. Our business depends upon general activity levels in the construction and agricultural industries. Historically, these industries have been cyclical. As a result, our operating profits are susceptible to a number of industry-specific factors, including: • prevailing levels of construction, especially housing starts, and levels of industrial production; • public spending on infrastructure; • market interest rates; • volatility of sales to rental companies; • real estate values; • consumer confidence; • changes in farm income and farmland value; • the level of worldwide farm output and demand for farm products; • commodity prices; • energy prices; • government agricultural policies and subsidies; • animal diseases and crop pests; and • weather. As a result of these and other factors, including related effects on us and our customers’ access to and cost of credit and dealer inventory management, a downturn in demand for our products can occur suddenly, resulting in excess inventories, under-utilized production capacity and reduced sales prices for our products. These downturns may be prolonged and may result in lower net sales and earnings. Equipment manufacturers, including us, have responded to downturns in the past by reducing production and discounting product prices. These actions have resulted in restructuring charges and lower earnings for us in past affected periods. In the event of future downturns, we may take similar actions. Our dependence on, and the price and availability of, raw materials and component parts may adversely affect our profits. We are exposed to fluctuations in market prices for commodities, such as steel and rubber, as well as component parts, including engines. In recent years, the prices of various raw materials and component parts have increased significantly, and we have been unable to avoid exposure to global price fluctuations and supply limitations, such as occurred in 2005 and 2006 with the cost and availability of steel and related products. In addition, our products are designed to work with particular components. As a result, our products, in certain cases, rely on a single source of supply for certain components. If we are unable to purchase the raw materials and components we require or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers, our future profitability may be adversely affected. 8 The construction and agricultural industries in which we operate are competitive, and competitors’ offerings of new products or services or lower prices could result in a decrease in our net sales and earnings. We compete with global full-line suppliers (including Caterpillar Inc., Deere & Company, Case Construction Equipment and Komatsu Ltd.) with a presence in every market and a broad range of products as well as with product line specialists (including Oshkosk Truck Corp. (JLG), Ingersoll-Rand Company (Bobcat) and Takeuchi Mfg. Co. Ltd.). Some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources. Competitive pricing, product initiatives and other actions taken by our competitors could cause us to lose customers or force us to decrease our sales prices, resulting in lower net sales and earnings. We source some of our products from third parties and any interruption in the supply of these products could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. We source compact excavators, all-wheel-steer loaders and compact track loaders from third-party foreign suppliers. Any interruption in the supply of these products or any material increase in prices could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. We are exposed to foreign currency risk with respect to the prices of these products. Any material change in the value of the United States dollar versus other currencies could adversely impact our net sales and profitability. Our success depends in part on the introduction of new products, and the failure to introduce new products on a timely basis could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. Our long-term results depend upon our ability to secure, introduce and market new products successfully. Our success in this area will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to develop new products internally or source new products from third-party suppliers, product quality, competition, customer acceptance of new products and the strength of our dealer networks. Any difficulties in developing or identifying and sourcing new products, any manufacturing delays or problems with new product launches, or any increased warranty costs from new products could adversely affect our operating results. The introduction of new products could also result in a decrease in revenues from our existing products. The internal development and refinement of products also consumes a substantial amount of capital. We may need more capital for product development and refinement than is available to us, which could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. Cyclical and structural declines in the demand for products we offer may cause us to undertake product line and facility rationalization initiatives that could result in restructuring charges and lower net sales and earnings. The construction and agricultural industries are continually evolving and undergoing cyclical and structural changes that impact the demand for the products we offer. We have historically reviewed these cyclical and structural changes in demand and have taken action to rationalize our product offerings and production facilities in light of market conditions. We expect to continue these reviews and to take appropriate action based on future conditions. Those actions could result in restructuring charges and lower net sales and earnings. During March 2006, we decided to discontinue the manufacturing and distribution of our agricultural implement products. As a result, we have recorded a $5.9 million after-tax non-cash impairment charge related to agricultural implement field and factory inventory and certain property, plant and equipment and a $1.9 million after-tax cash charge related to severance and other termination costs. See “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Discontinued Operations.” If we incur additional unanticipated expenses associated with the discontinuation of our implement product line, then our net income could be adversely affected in future periods. 9 Our leverage could adversely affect our financial health and make us vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions. At times, we may incur indebtedness that is substantial relative to our shareholders’ equity. Our indebtedness has important consequences. For example, it could: • make it difficult for us to fulfill our obligations under our credit agreement; • make it more challenging for us to obtain additional financing to fund our business strategy, debt service requirements, capital expenditures and working capital; • increase our vulnerability to interest rate changes and general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate activities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and markets; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our long-term business objectives. We are subject to risks and associated changes in the business climate that could limit our access to capital. Our business is capital intensive and the fulfillment of our strategic plan depends, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at attractive rates and terms. If access to capital becomes significantly constrained because of changes in the business climate or other factors, then our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly adversely affected. We are subject to significant environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and related compliance expenditures and liabilities. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety and have incurred and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with these regulations. If we fail to comply with any environmental regulations, then we could be subject to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of production at our manufacturing facilities. If unexpected obligations at these or other sites or more stringent environmental laws are imposed in the future, our future profitability may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved staff comments to report pursuant to Item 1B. 10 