ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may not be able to meet our cash requirements without implementing cost cutting initiatives, increasing revenues, and maintaining current customer contracts; failure to do so will result in the need to raise additional capital or significantly reduce our operating costs, which may include the cessation of operations in certain countries. Historically, our net cash used in operations has been substantial. Our net cash used in operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 was $7.9 million. Our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2009 was $197 thousand, as compared to $5.7 million as of December 31, 2008. We anticipate that will meet our cash requirements at least into March of 2011, assuming we are able to fully implement our current costs cutting initiatives, we are able to win additional contracts and we are able to maintain our current customer contracts. In the event we are unable to do so, in order for the Company to continue as a going concern we will be required to obtain additional capital from external sources or significantly reduce our operating costs, which may include the cessation of operations in some countries. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, as well as conditions in our business and our operating results; and those factors may affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. Given the current levels of the trading price of the Company’s common stock, if the Company were to raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders’ percentage ownership would be reduced and they would experience substantial dilution. If we were to raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our ope rations. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we will scale back our operations until such capital is obtained or seek stockholder approval to wind down operations and liquidate the company. The perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may adversely affect our business. Any perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may cause others to choose not to deal with us due to concerns about our ability to meet our contractual obligations and may adversely affect our ability to win new contracts and/or raise additional capital. We currently fail to meet NASDAQ’s $2.5 million minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing and may not be able to meet the other listing requirements in the future, with the result being that our Common Stock may be delisted from NASDAQ. Our common stock began trading on NASDAQ in December 1997. There are several requirements for continued listing on NASDAQ including, but not limited to, a minimum stock price of $1.00 per share and either (a) $2.5 million or more in stockholders’ equity, (b) market capitalization of $35.0 million or more, or (c) net income in the last fiscal year, or two of the last three fiscal years, of $500,000 or more. On August 25, 2009, the Company received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market notifying the Company that, based on its Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2009, NASDAQ determined that the Company’s stockholders’ equity did not comply with the minimum $2.5 million stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. As provided in the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, the Company submitted to NASDAQ a plan and timeline to achieve and sustain compliance. NASDAQ granted the Company an extension until December 8, 2009 to comply and notified the Company that, if at the time of its periodic report for the year ending December 31, 2009, the Company did not evidence compliance, the Company’s common stock may be subject to delisting. As of December 31, 2009 the stockholders' equi ty of the Company was $2.3 million, which fails to meet the $2.5 million minimum stockholders equity requirement. The Company anticipates that a delisting action will be brought against it for failure to comply with the requirement. If a delisting action is brought, the Company may request a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. Such request would stay any delisting determination by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Staff and the Company's common stock would remain listed on NASDAQ pending a formal determination by the Panel. However, there can be no assurances that the Panel will grant such request. In addition, on September 15, 2009 the Company received notice from NASDAQ that the minimum bid price of the Company's common stock was below $1.00 per share for thirty consecutive business days and that it was therefore not in compliance with Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(1). The notification letter gave the Company until March 15, 2010 to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement. In an effort to satisfy the minimum bid price requirement of $1.00, on February 16, 2010 the Company affected a one-for-eight reverse stock split of the Company’s common stock. Although as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2009 the Company is in compliance with minimum bid requirement, there can be no assurances that the Company will conti nue to meet this requirement in the future or the other listing requirements required for continued listing, with the result being that our common stock might be delisted. If delisted, our common stock will likely be quoted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called “pink sheets” or quoted in the OTC Bulletin Board. In addition, our common stock would be subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require brokers who sell securities that are subject to the rules, and who sell to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors, to complete required documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with information concerning the risks of trading in the security. These requirements would make it more difficult to buy or sell our common stock in the open market. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect o ur ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from NASDAQ could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by clients and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our backlog may not be indicative of future results. Backlog is the amount of revenue that remains to be earned and recognized on written awards, signed contracts and letters of intent. We cannot be certain that the backlog we have reported will be indicative of our future results. A number of factors may affect our backlog, including: the ability of clients to reduce or expand the size and duration of the projects (some are performed over several years); the termination or delay of projects; and a change in the scope of work during the course of a project. In addition since our backlog is reported in U.S. Dollars, but substantially all of our contracts are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, changes in the foreign currency exchange rates could reduce the amount of backlog reported. Also, if clients delay projects, the projects will remain in backlog, but will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Accordingly, historical indications of the relationship of backlog to revenues may not be indicative of future results and should not be relied upon. Our inability to forecast our revenue pipeline or convert revenue pipeline into contracts could increase fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast contract awards and trends in our business. Our management team monitors the status of all potential contract awards, including the potential dollar amount of each contract transaction. We aggregate these estimates periodically to generate a pipeline and then evaluate the pipeline to identify trends in our business. This pipeline analysis and related estimates of revenue may differ significantly from actual revenues in a particular reporting period. When customers delay contracts, reduce the amount of their contract or cancel contracts altogether, it will reduce the rate of conversion of the pipeline into contracts and our revenues will be harmed. Our inability to respond to a variation in the pipeline or in the conversion of the pipeline into contracts in a t imely manner, or at all, could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately and thereby could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Our operating results can be expected to fluctuate from period to period. Fluctuating operating results are usually due to the level of new business awards in a particular period and the timing of the initiation, progress or cancellation of significant projects. Even a short acceleration or delay in such projects could have a material effect on our results in a given reporting period. Varying periodic results could adversely affect the price of our common stock if investors react to our reporting operating results which are less favorable than in a prior period or lower than those anticipated by investors or the financial community generally. Our stock price may continue to experience fluctuations. The market prices of securities of thinly-traded companies such as ours generally are highly volatile. In this market environment, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such a sale might occur would likely have a materially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Any litigation brought against us as a result of this volatility could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could negatively impact our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, and the price of our common stock. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities in a fluctuating market, many or all of our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution, and if we need to raise capital by issuing equity securities at a time when our stock price is down, we may have difficulty raising sufficient capital to meet our requirements. We may incur additional impairment charges which may adversely affect our results of operations. The Company follows the provisions ASC 805, “Business Combinations” and ASC 350, “ Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ,” applicable to business combinations. In accordance with these standards, goodwill acquired in connection with the acquisition of Encorium Oy was not amortized. Under ASC 350, goodwill is subject to impairment testing annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. The Company performed its annual impairment testing as of November 1, 2009 and determined that both goodwill and related intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition of Encorium Oy were not impaired and that no adjustment to the carrying value was necessary as of that date. Impairment testing involves various estimates and assumptions, which could vary, and an analysis of relevant market data and market capitalization. If our stock price continues to decline or if economic conditions continue to deteriorate, we may incur additional impairment charges which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to develop new business in our intensely competitive industry will cause our revenues to decline. The market for clinical research services is highly competitive. We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical, and biotechnology companies and other clinical research organizations. Competitors in our industry range from small, limited-service providers to full service, global clinical research organizations. Many of our competitors have an established global presence, including Quintiles Transnational Corp., Covance, Inc., Parexel International Corporation, Icon Clinical Research, and Kendle International, Inc. In addition, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Significant factors in determining whether we will be able to compete successfully include: our consultative and clinical trials design capabilities; our reputation for on-time qual ity performance; our expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas; the scope of our service offerings; our ability to recruit investigators and study subjects in a timely manner; our strength in various geographic markets; the price of our services; our ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a time-saving and accurate manner; our global data services capabilities; our ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both domestically and internationally; and our size. If our services are not competitive based on these or other factors and we are unable to develop an adequate level of new business, our business, backlog position, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may compete for fewer clients arising out of consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry and the growing tendency of drug companies to outsource to a smaller number of preferred clinical research organizations that have far greater resources and capabilities. Our services may from time to time experience periods of increased price competition that could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and revenues. Additionally, the CRO industry is not highly capital-intensive, and the financial costs of entry into the industry are relatively low. Therefore, as a general matter, the industry has few barriers to entry. Newer, smaller entities with specialty focuses, such as those aligned to a specific disease or therapeutic area, may compete aggressively against us for clients. We depend on a small number of industries and clients for our business, and the loss of one of our significant clients could cause revenues to drop quickly and unexpectedly. Historically, projects in the fields of cardiovascular, oncology, immunology, vaccines, medical devices as well as clinical staff outsourcing have represented 50-75% of our European project work, although the mix of projects is subject to change from year to year. Our net revenues from our three largest clients amounted to 48% of our net revenues, with the three largest clients representing 30%, 10% and 8% of our net revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 in which net revenues from our three largest clients amounted to 35% of our revenues with the three largest clients representing 13%, 12% and 10%. The Company expects that a relatively small number of clients will continue to represent a significant percentage of its net revenue. Contracts with th ese clients generally can be terminated on short notice. The loss of business from any one of these significant clients would have a material and adverse effect on its business and revenues. Loss of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain additional personnel, may cause the success and growth of our business to suffer. Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific team to provide strategic direction, develop business, provide service to our clients, manage our operations and finances, and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. The loss of their services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of business development and strategic objectives. As a provider of complex clinical trial support services, our success depends on our ability to retain key employees and to attract additional qualified employees. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain additional highly qualified employees in the future. The loss of services of any of our key executives may have a material and adverse affect on our business operations, results of operations and financial position. Competition for our key executives and skilled personnel, particularly those with a medical degree, a Ph.D. or equivalent degrees, is intense. We compete with clinical research organizations, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and academic and research institutions that have far greater financial resources to recruit skilled personnel. Our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and scientific staff could have a material and adverse affect on our business plan, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified executives and scientific staff in the future. 8 Table of Contents We may bear financial losses because our contracts may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control. Our contracts generally may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice. Clients may terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, the failure of products to satisfy safety requirements, unexpected or undesired clinical results, merger or potential merger-related activities, the client’s budget constraints, the client’s decision to terminate the development of a particular product or to end a particular study, insufficient patient enrollment in a study, insufficient investigator recruitment, manufacturing problems resulting in shortages of the product, or our failure to perform our obligations under the contract. This risk of loss or delay of contracts potentially has greater effect as we pursue larger outsourcing arrangements with global pharmaceutical companies. Also, over the past several years we have observed that clients may be more willing to delay, cancel or reduce contracts more rapidly than in the past. In addition, companies may proceed with fewer clinical trials or conduct them without assistance of contract research organizations as a result of changing priorities or other internal considerations. These factors may cause such companies to cancel contracts with CROs, such as Encorium. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a significant contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The fixed price nature of our contracts could have a negative impact on our operating results. A significant portion of our contracts are at fixed prices. As a result, we bear the risk of cost overruns. If we fail to adequately price our contracts, fail to effectively estimate the cost to complete fixed price contracts, or if we experience significant cost overruns, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, contracts with our clients are subject to change orders, which occur when the scope of work performed by us needs to be modified from what was originally contemplated by our contract with the client. This can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key study assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we cannot recognize additional revenue anticipated from change orders until appr opriate documentation is received by us from the client authorizing the change made. However, if we incur additional expense in anticipation of receipt of that documentation, we must recognize the expense as incurred. Further, we may not be successful convincing our clients to approve change orders which change the scope of current contracts. Such under-pricing or significant cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Changes in outsourcing trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could materially and adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. Industry trends and economic factors that affect our clients in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries also affect our business. Our revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in research and development. The practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire outside organizations like us to conduct clinical research projects. This practice has grown significantly in the last decade, and we have benefited from this trend. However, if this trend were to change and companies in these industries were to reduce the number of research and development projects they outsource, our business could be materially and adversely affected. For example, over the past several years, mergers and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry appear to have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. The continuation of or increase of these trends could have a negative affect on our business. Additionally, numerous governments and managed care organizations have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their research and development spending, which could reduce our business. Failure to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and our operating results. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of on-going clinical research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. For example, if we were to fail to verify that patient participants were fully informed and had fully consented to a particular clinical trial, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified. If this were to happen, we could be contractually required to repeat the trial at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial cost to us. The issuance of a notice from the FDA based upon a finding of a material violation by us of GCP requirements could result in contractual liability to our clients and/or the termination of ongoing studies which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Similar notices could be issu ed from the regulatory authorities in other countries where we conduct clinical studies. Furthermore, our reputation and prospects for future work could be materially and adversely diminished. Changes in governmental regulation could reduce the need for the services we provide, which would negatively affect our future business opportunities. In recent years the United States Congress, state legislatures and foreign governments have considered various types of health care reform in order to control growing health care costs. The United States Congress, state legislatures and foreign governments may again address health care reform in the future. We are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Implementation of health care reform legislation that results in additional costs to develop new drugs could limit the profits that can be made by our clients from the development of new products. This could adversely affect our clients’ research and development expenditures, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the United States and elsewhere. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. We cannot predict the likelihood of any of these events. Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the U.S., strictly regulate the drug development and approval process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Any changes in drug approval regulatory requirements such as the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying, could eliminate or substantially reduce the need for our services. These and other changes in regulation could have an impact on the business opportunities available to us. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Proposed and future laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of patient information, might increase the cost of our business, increase our risks of liability or limit our service offerings. Various governments might adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. These changes could increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our products or services. For example, the confidentiality of patient specific information and the circumstances under which it may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business are subject to substantial government regulation. Additional legislation governing the possession, use and dissemination of medical record information and other personal health information has been proposed at both the state and national levels and is likely to be proposed in other countries. Proposed federal regulations governing patient specific health information might require us to implement new security measures that requir e substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our products and services. These regulations might also increase our costs by creating new privacy requirements and mandating additional privacy procedures for our business, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial position. Recently, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, the ongoing effects of the war in Iraq, recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. If economic growth in the global economy is further slowed, many customers may delay or reduce spending on our services, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend upon our clients, study sites and our facilities, as well as the ability to readily travel among these, for the continued operation of our business. We also depend upon the continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, telecommunications networks, internet servers and related infrastructure. However, catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, could still disrupt our operations, those of our clients or study sites, or our ability to travel among these locations, which would also affect us. Although we carry business interruption insurance, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting our facilities could have a material and adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our products and services less competitive or obsolete. The clinical research aspects of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, products or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, products or services, or render our technologies, products or services less competitive or obsolete. If we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, products and services necessary for us to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, results of operations and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. We may have exposure to substantial personal injury claims and may not have adequate insurance to cover such claims. Our business primarily involves the testing of experimental drugs and biologics or other regulated products on consenting human volunteers pursuant to a study protocol. These tests create a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of volunteers resulting from negative reactions to the drugs administered or from improper care provided by third-party investigators, particularly to volunteers with life-threatening illnesses. In connection with many clinical trials, we contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on human volunteers. We do not believe that we are legally accountable for the medical care rendered by third party investigators, and we seek to limit our liability with our clients, third party investigators and others. Although our contracts with clients generally incl ude indemnity provisions and we have loss insurance, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we had to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of an indemnity or insurance coverage. Additionally, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if our liability exceeds the amount of our insurance. Contractual indemnification provisions generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear the cost of defending any claim which is not covered by a contractual indemnification provision, in the event that a party who must indemnify us does not fulfill its indemnification obligations, or if the amount we are required to pay is beyond the level of our insurance coverage. In addition, we may not be able to continue to maintain adequate insurance coverage on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to attract suitable willing volunteers for the clinical trials of our clients, our results could be materially and adversely affected. One of the factors on which we compete is the ability to recruit independent investigators who can identify volunteers for the clinical studies we manage on behalf of our clients. These clinical trials rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of volunteer subjects. These subjects generally include volunteers from the communities in which the studies are conducted, which to date have provided an adequate pool of potential subjects for research studies. Many of our contracts include payments for achieving specific targets directly tied to the recruitment of study subjects. The trials we manage and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing volunteers on a consistent basis. If we are unable to safeguard our networks and clients’ data, our clients may not use our services and our business may be harmed. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hacking, computer viruses and other security problems. An individual who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. Security measures that we adopt from time to time may be inadequate. We may have difficulty obtaining director and officer liability insurance in acceptable amounts for acceptable rates. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain in the future sufficient director and officer liability insurance coverage at acceptable rates and with acceptable deductibles and other limitations. Failure to obtain such insurance could materially harm our financial condition in the event that we are required to defend against and resolve any future securities class actions or other claims made against us or our management. Further, the inability to obtain such insurance in adequate amounts may impair our future ability to retain and recruit qualified officers and directors. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could negatively impact the market price of our stock Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance price. If, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Actions or inspections by regulatory authorities may cause clients not to award future contracts to us or to cancel existing contracts, which may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be subject to continuing inspections of our facilities and documentation in connection with studies we have conducted in support of marketing applications, or routine inspections of our facilities that have yet to be inspected by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities can have significant authority over the conduct of clinical trials, and they have the power to take regulatory and legal action in response to violations of clinical standards, subject protection and regulatory requirements in the form of civil and criminal fines, injunctions and other measures. Additionally, there is a risk that actions by regulatory authorities, if they result in significant inspectional observations or other measures, could cause clients not to award us future contracts or to cancel existing contracts. Depending upon the amount of revenue l ost, the results could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We might lose business opportunities as a result of healthcare reform. Numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with healthcare providers and drug companies. Healthcare reform could reduce the demand for our services and, as a result, our revenue. Any such legislation could cause our customers to spend less on research and development. If this were to occur, we could have fewer clinical trials for our business, which could reduce our earnings. Our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations or financial position. Since the sale of our U.S. Business on July 16, 2009, all of our operations are conducted outside the U.S. Our business is subject to substantial risks associated with doing business internationally, including: ● less stable political and economic environments and changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, ● potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to repatriate profits, ● unfavorable labor regulations, ● greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, ● the need to ensure compliance with the numerous regulatory and legal requirements applicable to our business in each of these jurisdictions, and to maintain an effective compliance program to ensure compliance, ● changes in trade policies, regulatory requirements and other barriers, ● civil unrest or other catastrophic events, and ● longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions. These factors are beyond our control. The realization of any of these or other risks associated with operating in foreign countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have substantial exposure to currency risks. Since the sale of our U.S. Business on July 16, 2009, all of our operations are conducted outside the U.S. We operate in many foreign countries and are subject to exchange rate gains and losses for multiple currencies. We may also be subject to foreign currency transaction risk when our service contracts are denominated in a currency other than the currency in which we incur expenses or earn fees related to such contracts. Changes in the exchange rate foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could materially affect the translation of our subsidiaries’ financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. The Company depends on the biopharmaceutical industry for most of its revenue. The Company’s revenues depend on the outsourcing trends, size of the drug-development pipeline and research and development expenditures of the biopharmaceutical industry. Economic factors and industry trends that affect companies in the industry affect its business. A slowdown in research and development spending or a reprioritization of the drug development pipelines or limited access to capital to fund projects in the biopharmaceutical industry could negatively affect our net service revenues and results of operations. Mergers and acquisitions in the biopharmaceutical industry and the related rationalization of the drug-development pipelines could result in delay or cancellation of certain existing projects. The Company’s indebtedness could adversely affect its business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s consolidated indebtedness was $1.4 million. The Company’s level of indebtedness will have several important effects on its future operations. For example, the Company will be required to use a portion of its cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest due on its outstanding indebtedness. In addition, the Company’s outstanding indebtedness and leverage could increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures. Finally, the level of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness may affect its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. General economic conditions as well as conditions affecting the Company’s operations specifically, including, but not limited to, financial and business conditions, many of which are beyond its control, may affect its future performance. As a result, these and other factors may affect the Company’s ability to make principal and interest payments on its indebtedness. The Company’s business might not generate the cash flow necessary to service its indebtedness. If the Company cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its indebtedness, it may, among other things: • Seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • Seek to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness; • Sell selected assets; and/or • Reduce or delay planned capital expenditures. These measures might not be sufficient to enable the Company to service its indebtedness in which event an event of default could potentially occur under one of the Companies loan facilities which would materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operations. The Company may be exposed to risk from its various counterparties. The current global economy has shown signs of weakening and continues to show signs of fragility; its impact may be far reaching. As a result, the Company may be exposed to risks related to defaults from its suppliers and customers. Key suppliers could fail to deliver agreed upon goods or services. Customers may not be able to obtain financing for their clinical trials with the Company, which may result in the delay or cancellation of these trials. Additionally, customers may not be able to pay or may pay receivables more slowly than in the past resulting in bad debt expenses or poor cash flow. 11 Table of Contents We could make acquisitions that could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute the equity of our stockholders and harm our operating results. In an effort to realize our strategic goal of becoming the world’s leading vaccine CRO, we may make acquisitions. Acquisitions involve risks, including (i) the inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses or to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other expected value; (ii) difficulties in managing and coordinating operations at new sites; (iii) the loss or termination of key employees of acquired businesses; (iv) the loss of key customers of acquired businesses; (v) performance of acquired products; (vi) unanticipated expenses in connection with refining and improving acquired products; (vii) diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and (viii) risks of entering businesses and markets in which we have no direct or limited prior exp erience. Acquisitions may result in the utilization of cash and marketable securities, dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of debt, any of which would weaken our financial position. In addition, acquisitions may result in the creation of (i) certain definite-lived intangible assets that increase amortization expense, (ii) goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets that subsequently may result in large write-downs should these assets become impaired and (iii) earn-out or other payments that may need to be expensed rather than recorded as additional goodwill. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 