ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our independent auditors included an explanatory paragraph regarding our ability to continue as a going concern in the audit report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 and notes to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, which may require us to scale back or cease operations. At December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $267 thousand and working capital deficiency of approximately $(6.4) million. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred a net loss of approximately $9.1 million. Due to such financial position and results of operations as well as the absence of firm commitments for any additional financing, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in the audit report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010. Additionally, Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, states that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The going concern explanatory paragraph in the report of our independent auditors and the note to financial statements may cause concern to one or more of our constituencies of debt holders, clients, suppliers, trade creditors or other contractual parties. If any debt holder’s, client’s, supplier’s, trade creditor’s or other contractual party’s concern results in adverse changes in their respective business relations with us, these changes may materially adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. In addition, any perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may cause potential clients or other contractual parties to choose not to deal with us due to concerns about our ability to meet our contractual obligations, which may materially adversely affect our ability to win new contracts and/or raise additional capital. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain additional funding, we may not be able to continue operations as proposed, requiring us to scale back various aspects of our operations or cease operations. In such event, you may lose a portion or all of your investment. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, as well as conditions in our business and our operating results; and those factors may affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. Given the current levels of the trading price of the Company’s common stock, if the Company were to raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders’ percentage ownership would be reduced and they would experience substantial dilution. If we were to raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we will scale back our operations until such capital is obtained or seek stockholder approval to wind down operations and liquidate the company. Our common stock has been delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, which negatively impacts the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. On October 20, 2010, the Company received notification that the NASDAQ Qualifications Panel (the "Panel") determined to delist the Company's securities from The NASDAQ Stock Market, effective with the open of business on October 22, 2010, as a result of the Company's failure to regain compliance with the minimum $2.5 million stockholders' equity requirement. The Company’s common stock is currently quoted on the Pink Sheets. The delisting of our common stock significantly affects the ability of investors to trade our securities and significantly negatively affects the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market will also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our common stock is subject to the penny stock regulations that impose restrictions on the marketability of our common stock. As a consequence, the ability of our stockholders to sell shares of our common stock could be impaired. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") has adopted regulations that generally define a "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share subject to certain exceptions that are not applicable to our Company at present. Our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell these securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The regulations require that prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, a risk disclosure schedule must be delivered to the buyer explaining the penny stock market and its risks. For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase, and must have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As such the market liquidity for the common stock will be limited to the ability of broker-dealers to sell it in compliance with the above-mentioned disclosure requirements. · control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers; · "boiler room" practices involving high-pressure sales tactics; 10 · manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales; · the release of misleading information; · excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and · dumping of securities by broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, which hurts the price of the stock and causes investors to suffer loss. We are aware of the abuses that have occurred in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, we will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent such abuses with respect to our common stock. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could negatively impact the market price of our stock. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, and our management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Due to a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2010, based on the criteria in Internal Control–Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Management determined that at December 31, 2010, we had a material weakness because we did not have a sufficient number of personnel with an appropriate level of knowledge and experience of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) that are commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. Contributing to this lack of sufficient resources was the unanticipated voluntary turnover of key personnel. Because of the material weakness, we took certain actions so that our consolidated financial statements as of, and for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010, are presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These actions included (i) supplementing existing resources with technically qualified third party consultants and (ii) performing additional procedures and analyses. If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, current stockholders and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business prospects and the market price of our stock. Our backlog may not be indicative of future results. Backlog is the amount of revenue that remains to be earned and recognized on written awards, signed contracts and letters of intent. We cannot be certain that the backlog we have reported will be indicative of our future results. A number of factors may affect our backlog, including: the ability of clients to reduce or expand the size and duration of the projects (some are performed over several years); the termination or delay of projects; and a change in the scope of work during the course of a project. In addition since our backlog is reported in U.S. Dollars, but substantially all of our contracts are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, changes in the foreign currency exchange rates could reduce the amount of backlog reported. Also, if clients delay projects, the projects will remain in backlog, but will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Accordingly, historical indications of the relationship of backlog to revenues may not be indicative of future results and should not be relied upon. Our inability to forecast our revenue pipeline or convert revenue pipeline into contracts could increase fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast contract awards and trends in our business. Our management team monitors the status of all potential contract awards, including the potential dollar amount of each contract transaction. We aggregate these estimates periodically to generate a pipeline and then evaluate the pipeline to identify trends in our business. This pipeline analysis and related estimates of revenue may differ significantly from actual revenues in a particular reporting period. When customers delay contracts, reduce the amount of their contract or cancel contracts altogether, it will reduce the rate of conversion of the pipeline into contracts and our revenues will be harmed. Our inability to respond to a variation in the pipeline or in the conversion of the pipeline into contracts in a timely manner, or at all, could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately and thereby could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results can be expected to fluctuate from period to period. Fluctuating operating results are usually due to the level of new business awards in a particular period and the timing of the initiation, progress or cancellation of significant projects. Even a short acceleration or delay in such projects could have a material effect on our results in a given reporting period. Varying periodic results could adversely affect the price of our common stock if investors react to our reporting operating results which are less favorable than in a prior period or lower than those anticipated by investors or the financial community generally. 11 Our stock price may continue to experience fluctuations. The market prices of securities of thinly-traded companies such as ours generally are highly volatile. In this market environment, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such a sale might occur would likely have a materially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Any litigation brought against us as a result of this volatility could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could negatively impact our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, and the price of our common stock. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities in a fluctuating market, many or all of our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution, and if we need to raise capital by issuing equity securities at a time when our stock price is down, we may have difficulty raising sufficient capital to meet our requirements. We may incur additional impairment charges which may adversely affect our results of operations. The Company follows the provisions of ASC 805, “Business Combinations” (ASC 805) and ASC 350, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (ASC 350) applicable to business combinations. The Company also follows the provisions of ASC 360, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets” (ASC 360). The Company acquired goodwill and intangible assets in business combinations. In accordance with these standards, goodwill is not amortized. Under ASC 350, goodwill is subject to impairment testing annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. The Company’s intangible assets are carried at cost and are subject to amortization. In accordance with ASC 360, the Company’s intangible assets are subject to impairment testing whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable. Due to triggering events, the Company conducted an interim impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets obtained in connection with the acquisition of Encorium Oy as of September 30, 2010. Although management found no impairment related to Encorium Oy’s goodwill, they did conclude that Encorium Oy’s intangible assets were impaired and as a result, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment loss of approximately $2.8 million. Due to triggering events occurring in the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company conducted an interim impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets obtained in connection with the acquisition of Progenitor. While management found no impairment related to Progenitor’s intangible assets, they did conclude that Progenitor’s goodwill was impaired and as a result, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment loss of $798 thousand. See Note 17, “Goodwill and Other Intangibles,” to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the Company’s impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets. Impairment testing involves various estimates and assumptions, which could vary, and an analysis of relevant market data and market capitalization. If our stock price continues to decline or if economic conditions continue to deteriorate, we may incur additional impairment charges which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to develop new business in our intensely competitive industry will cause our revenues to decline. The market for clinical research services is highly competitive. We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical, and biotechnology companies and other clinical research organizations. Competitors in our industry range from small, limited-service providers to full service, global clinical research organizations. Many of our competitors have an established global presence, including Quintiles Transnational Corp., Covance, Inc., Parexel International Corporation, Icon Clinical Research, and Kendle International, Inc. In addition, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Significant factors in determining whether we will be able to compete successfully include: our consultative and clinical trials design capabilities; our reputation for on-time quality performance; our expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas; the scope of our service offerings; our ability to recruit investigators and study subjects in a timely manner; our strength in various geographic markets; the price of our services; our ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a time-saving and accurate manner; our global data services capabilities; our ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both domestically and internationally; and our size. If our services are not competitive based on these or other factors and we are unable to develop an adequate level of new business, our business, backlog position, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may compete for fewer clients arising out of consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry and the growing tendency of drug companies to outsource to a smaller number of preferred clinical research organizations that have far greater resources and capabilities. 12 Our services may from time to time experience periods of increased price competition that could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and revenues. Additionally, the CRO industry is not highly capital-intensive, and the financial costs of entry into the industry are relatively low. Therefore, as a general matter, the industry has few barriers to entry. Newer, smaller entities with specialty focuses, such as those aligned to a specific disease or therapeutic area, may compete aggressively against us for clients. We depend on a small number of industries and clients for our business, and the loss of one of our significant clients could cause revenues to drop quickly and unexpectedly. Historically, projects in the fields of cardiovascular, oncology, immunology, vaccines, medical devices as well as clinical staff outsourcing have represented 50-75% of our European project work, although the mix of projects is subject to change from year to year. Our net revenues from our three largest clients amounted to 46% of our net revenues, with the three largest clients representing 25%, 11% and 10% of our net revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 in which net revenues from our three largest clients amounted to 48% of our revenues with the three largest clients representing 30%, 10% and 8% of our net revenues, respectively. The Company expects that a relatively small number of clients will continue to represent a significant percentage of its net revenue. Contracts with these clients generally can be terminated on short notice. The loss of business from any one of these significant clients would have a material and adverse effect on its business and revenues. Loss of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain additional personnel, may cause the success and growth of our business to suffer. Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific team to provide strategic direction, develop business, provide service to our clients, manage our operations and finances, and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. The loss of their services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of business development and strategic objectives. As a provider of complex clinical trial support services, our success depends on our ability to retain key employees and to attract additional qualified employees. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain additional highly qualified employees in the future. The loss of services of any of our key executives may have a material and adversely affect our business operations, results of operations and financial position. Competition for our key executives and skilled personnel, particularly those with a medical degree, a Ph.D. or equivalent degrees, is intense. We compete with clinical research organizations, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and academic and research institutions that have far greater financial resources to recruit skilled personnel. Our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and scientific staff could have a material and adverse effect on our business plan, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified executives and scientific staff in the future. We may bear financial losses because our contracts may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control. Our contracts generally may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice. Clients may terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, the failure of products to satisfy safety requirements, unexpected or undesired clinical results, merger or potential merger-related activities, the client’s budget constraints, the client’s decision to terminate the development of a particular product or to end a particular study, insufficient patient enrollment in a study, insufficient investigator recruitment, manufacturing problems resulting in shortages of the product, or our failure to perform our obligations under the contract. This risk of loss or delay of contracts potentially has greater effect as we pursue larger outsourcing arrangements with global pharmaceutical companies. Also, over the past several years we have observed that clients may be more willing to delay, cancel or reduce contracts more rapidly than in the past. In addition, companies may proceed with fewer clinical trials or conduct them without assistance of contract research organizations as a result of changing priorities or other internal considerations. These factors may cause such companies to cancel contracts with CROs, such as Encorium. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a significant contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The fixed price nature of our contracts could have a negative impact on our operating results. A significant portion of our contracts are at fixed prices. As a result, we bear the risk of cost overruns. If we fail to adequately price our contracts, fail to effectively estimate the cost to complete fixed price contracts, or if we experience significant cost overruns, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, contracts with our clients are subject to change orders, which occur when the scope of work performed by us needs to be modified from what was originally contemplated by our contract with the client. This can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key study assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we cannot recognize additional revenue anticipated from change orders until appropriate documentation is received by us from the client authorizing the change made. However, if we incur additional expense in anticipation of receipt of that documentation, we must recognize the expense as incurred. Further, we may not be successful convincing our clients to approve change orders which change the scope of current contracts. Such under-pricing or significant cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 13 Changes in outsourcing trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could materially and adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. Industry trends and economic factors that affect our clients in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries also affect our business. Our revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in research and development. The practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire outside organizations like us to conduct clinical research projects. This practice has grown significantly in the last decade, and we have benefited from this trend. However, if this trend were to change and companies in these industries were to reduce the number of research and development projects they outsource, our business could be materially and adversely affected. For example, over the past several years, mergers and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry appear to have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. The continuation of or increase of these trends could have a negative effect on our business. Additionally, numerous governments and managed care organizations have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their research and development spending, which could reduce our business. Failure to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and our operating results. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of on-going clinical research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. For example, if we were to fail to verify that patient participants were fully informed and had fully consented to a particular clinical trial, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified. If this were to happen, we could be contractually required to repeat the trial at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial cost to us. The issuance of a notice from the FDA based upon a finding of a material violation by us of GCP requirements could result in contractual liability to our clients and/or the termination of ongoing studies which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Similar notices could be issued from the regulatory authorities in other countries where we conduct clinical studies. Furthermore, our reputation and prospects for future work could be materially and adversely diminished. Changes in governmental regulation could reduce the need for the services we provide, which would negatively affect our future business opportunities. In recent years the United States Congress, state legislatures and foreign governments have considered various types of health care reform in order to control growing health care costs. The United States Congress, state legislatures and foreign governments may again address health care reform in the future. We are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Implementation of health care reform legislation that results in additional costs to develop new drugs could limit the profits that can be made by our clients from the development of new products. This could adversely affect our clients’ research and development expenditures, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the United States and elsewhere. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. We cannot predict the likelihood of any of these events. Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the U.S., strictly regulate the drug development and approval process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Any changes in drug approval regulatory requirements, such as the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying, could eliminate or substantially reduce the need for our services. These and other changes in regulation could have an impact on the business opportunities available to us. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Proposed and future laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of patient information, might increase the cost of our business, increase our risks of liability or limit our service offerings. Various governments might adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. These changes could increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our products or services. For example, the confidentiality of patient specific information and the circumstances under which it may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business are subject to substantial government regulation. Additional legislation governing the possession, use and dissemination of medical record information and other personal health information has been proposed at both the state and national levels and is likely to be proposed in other countries. Proposed federal regulations governing patient specific health information might require us to implement new security measures that require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our products and services. These regulations might also increase our costs by creating new privacy requirements and mandating additional privacy procedures for our business, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial position. Recently, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. If economic growth in the global economy is further slowed, many customers may delay or reduce spending on our services, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend upon our clients, study sites and our facilities, as well as the ability to readily travel among these, for the continued operation of our business. We also depend upon the continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, telecommunications networks, internet servers and related infrastructure. However, catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, could still disrupt our operations, those of our clients or study sites, or our ability to travel among these locations, which would also affect us. Although we carry business interruption insurance, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting our facilities could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our products and services less competitive or obsolete. The clinical research aspects of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, products or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, products or services, or render our technologies, products or services less competitive or obsolete. If we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, products and services necessary for us to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, results of operations and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. We may have exposure to substantial personal injury claims and may not have adequate insurance to cover such claims. Our business primarily involves the testing of experimental drugs and biologics or other regulated products on consenting human volunteers pursuant to a study protocol. These tests create a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of volunteers resulting from negative reactions to the drugs administered or from improper care provided by third-party investigators, particularly to volunteers with life-threatening illnesses. In connection with many clinical trials, we contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on human volunteers. We do not believe that we are legally accountable for the medical care rendered by third party investigators, and we seek to limit our liability with our clients, third party investigators and others. Although our contracts with clients generally include indemnity provisions and we have loss insurance, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we had to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of an indemnity or insurance coverage. Additionally, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if our liability exceeds the amount of our insurance. Contractual indemnification provisions generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear the cost of defending any claim which is not covered by a contractual indemnification provision, in the event that a party who must indemnify us does not fulfill its indemnification obligations, or if the amount we are required to pay is beyond the level of our insurance coverage. In addition, we may not be able to continue to maintain adequate insurance coverage on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to attract suitable willing volunteers for the clinical trials of our clients, our results could be materially and adversely affected. One of the factors on which we compete is the ability to recruit independent investigators who can identify volunteers for the clinical studies we manage on behalf of our clients. These clinical trials rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of volunteer subjects. These subjects generally include volunteers from the communities in which the studies are conducted, which to date have provided an adequate pool of potential subjects for research studies. Many of our contracts include payments for achieving specific targets directly tied to the recruitment of study subjects. The trials we manage and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing volunteers on a consistent basis. 15 If we are unable to safeguard our networks and clients’ data, our clients may not use our services and our business may be harmed. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hacking, computer viruses and other security problems. An individual who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. Security measures that we adopt from time to time may be inadequate. We may have difficulty obtaining director and officer liability insurance in acceptable amounts for acceptable rates. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain in the future sufficient director and officer liability insurance coverage at acceptable rates and with acceptable deductibles and other limitations. Failure to obtain such insurance could materially harm our financial condition in the event that we are required to defend against and resolve any future securities class actions or other claims made against us or our management. Further, the inability to obtain such insurance in adequate amounts may impair our future ability to retain and recruit qualified officers and directors. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future. Actions or inspections by regulatory authorities may cause clients not to award future contracts to us or to cancel existing contracts, which may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be subject to continuing inspections of our facilities and documentation in connection with studies we have conducted in support of marketing applications, or routine inspections of our facilities that have yet to be inspected by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities can have significant authority over the conduct of clinical trials, and they have the power to take regulatory and legal action in response to violations of clinical standards, subject protection and regulatory requirements in the form of civil and criminal fines, injunctions and other measures. Additionally, there is a risk that actions by regulatory authorities, if they result in significant inspectional observations or other measures, could cause clients not to award us future contracts or to cancel existing contracts. Depending upon the amount of revenue lost, the results could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. We might lose business opportunities as a result of healthcare reform. Numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with healthcare providers and drug companies. Healthcare reform could reduce the demand for our services and, as a result, our revenue. Any such legislation could cause our customers to spend less on research and development. If this were to occur, we could have fewer clinical trials for our business, which could reduce our earnings. Our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations or financial position. Since the sale of our U.S. Business on July 16, 2009, all of our operations are conducted outside the U.S. Our business is subject to substantial risks associated with doing business internationally, including: • less stable political and economic environments and changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, • potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to repatriate profits, • unfavorable labor regulations, • greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, • the need to ensure compliance with the numerous regulatory and legal requirements applicable to our business in each of these jurisdictions, and to maintain an effective compliance program to ensure compliance, • changes in trade policies, regulatory requirements and other barriers, 16 • civil unrest or other catastrophic events, and • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions. These factors are beyond our control. The realization of any of these or other risks associated with operating in foreign countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have substantial exposure to currency risks. Since the sale of our U.S. Business on July 16, 2009, all of our operations are conducted outside the U.S. We operate in many foreign countries and are subject to exchange rate gains and losses for multiple currencies. We may also be subject to foreign currency transaction risk when our service contracts are denominated in a currency other than the currency in which we incur expenses or earn fees related to such contracts. Changes in the exchange rate foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could materially affect the translation of our subsidiaries’ financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. We depend on the biopharmaceutical industry for our revenue. Our revenue depend on the outsourcing trends, size of the drug-development pipeline and research and development expenditures of the biopharmaceutical industry. Economic factors and industry trends that affect companies in the industry affect its business. A slowdown in research and development spending or a reprioritization of the drug development pipelines or limited access to capital to fund projects in the biopharmaceutical industry could negatively affect our net service revenues and results of operations. Mergers and acquisitions in the biopharmaceutical industry and the related rationalization of the drug-development pipelines could result in delay or cancellation of certain existing projects. Our indebtedness could adversely affect its business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2010, our consolidated indebtedness was $1.5 million. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations. For example, we will be required to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest due on our outstanding indebtedness. In addition, our outstanding indebtedness and leverage could increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures. Finally, the level of our outstanding indebtedness may affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. General economic conditions as well as conditions affecting our operations specifically, including, but not limited to, financial and business conditions, many of which are beyond its control, may affect our future performance. As a result, these and other factors may affect our ability to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Our business might not generate the cash flow necessary to service our indebtedness. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness, we may, among other things: • Seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • Seek to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; • Sell selected assets; or • Reduce or delay planned capital expenditures These measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, in which event an event of default could potentially occur under one of our loan facilities which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations. We may be exposed to risk from our various counterparties. The current global economy has shown signs of weakening and continues to show signs of fragility; its impact may be far reaching. As a result, we may be exposed to risks related to defaults from our suppliers and customers. Key suppliers could fail to deliver agreed upon goods or services. Customers may not be able to obtain financing for their clinical trials with us, which may result in the delay or cancellation of these trials. Additionally, customers may not be able to pay or may pay receivables more slowly than in the past resulting in bad debt expenses or poor cash flow. 17 We may be unable to quickly and effectively integrate operations of Progenitor which could materially adversely affect our combined business, financial condition and results of operations On July 19, 2010, the Company acquired Progenitor Holding. In order to increase profitability and operating efficiencies, we will need to integrate and coordinate certain key elements of Progenitor’s business with the business of the Company, including: • service offerings; • marketing and business development efforts; • management and other professional personnel; and • operational systems of Encorium and Progenitor. We may not accomplish the integration smoothly, expeditiously or successfully. The difficulties of combining the companies’ operations include: • coordinating the efforts and managing the operation, facilities and decision-making process; • integrating organizations whose personnel have diverse business and cultural backgrounds; and • combining different corporate cultures. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company’s businesses and the loss of key personnel. We will need to dedicate management resources to the integration process which may distract attention from normal operations. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt our businesses. If we fail to complete quickly and effectively the integration of our operations, there could be uncertainty in the marketplace or client concern regarding the impact of the business combination, which could materially adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of the combined businesses. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the acquisition of Progenitor Holding. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the acquisition of Progenitor Holding, including if: • we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts; or • the effects of the acquisition on the businesses are not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts; or We could lose clients as a result of uncertainty regarding the acquisition of Progenitor Holding Uncertainty regarding the acquisition of Progenitor Holding and the ability of Encorium and Progenitor Holding to integrate effectively their operations without significant reduction in quality of service could lead some clients to select other vendors. The loss of business from significant clients could have a negative effect on our business. We could make acquisitions that could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute the equity of our stockholders and harm our operating results. In an effort to realize our strategic goal of becoming the world’s leading vaccine CRO, we may make additional acquisitions. Acquisitions involve risks, including (i) the inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses or to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other expected value; (ii) difficulties in managing and coordinating operations at new sites; (iii) the loss or termination of key employees of acquired businesses; (iv) the loss of key customers of acquired businesses; (v) performance of acquired products; (vi) unanticipated expenses in connection with refining and improving acquired products; (vii) diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and (viii) risks of entering businesses and markets in which we have no direct or limited prior experience. Acquisitions may result in the utilization of cash and marketable securities, dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of debt, any of which would weaken our financial position. In addition, acquisitions may result in the creation of (i) certain definite-lived intangible assets that increase amortization expense, (ii) goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets that subsequently may result in large write-downs should these assets become impaired and (iii) earn-out or other payments that may need to be expensed rather than recorded as additional goodwill. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 18 