Risk Factors that Might Affect our Business or Stock Price Failure to develop new business in our intensely competitive industry will cause our revenues to decline. The market for contract research services is highly competitive. We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies and other contract research organizations. Competitors in our industry range from small, limited-service providers to full service, global contract research organizations. Many of our competitors have an established global presence, including Quintiles Transnational Corp., Covance, Inc., Parexel International Corporation, Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., Icon Clinical Research, and Kendle International, Inc. These competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Significant factors in determining whether we will be able to compete successfully include: our consultative and clinical trials design capabilities; our reputation for on-time quality performance; our expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas; the scope of our service offerings; our ability to recruit investigators and study subjects in a timely manner; our strength in various geographic markets; the price of our services; our ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a time-saving and accurate manner; our global data services capabilities; our ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both domestically and internationally; and our size. If our services are not competitive based on these or other factors and we are unable to develop an adequate level of new business, our business, backlog position, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may compete for fewer clients arising out of consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry and the growing tendency of drug companies to outsource to a smaller number of preferred contract research organizations. Our services may from time to time experience periods of increased price competition that could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and revenues. Additionally, the CRO industry is not highly capital-intensive, and the financial costs of entry into the industry are relatively low. Therefore, as a general matter, the industry has few barriers to entry. Newer, smaller entities with specialty focuses, such as those aligned to a specific disease or therapeutic area, may compete aggressively against us for clients. We depend on a small number of industries and clients for our business, and the loss of one of our significant clients could cause revenues to drop quickly and unexpectedly. We provide services to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries and our revenue is highly dependent on expenditures by clients in these industries. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if: • our clients reduce their research and development expenditures or reduce the rate of growth in their research and development expenditures; • consolidation in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device industries leads to a smaller client base for us; 9 Table of Contents • one or more significant studies are terminated as a result of the failure of the product to satisfy safety requirements, unexpected or undesired clinical results, or other reasons; or • our clients’ businesses experience financial problems or are affected by a general economic downturn. Three of our clients account for a significant percentage of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, net revenues from our three largest clients amounted to 70% of our net revenues, with the three largest clients representing 27%, 26% and 17% of net revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2004, net revenues from our three largest clients amounted to 57% of our net revenues, with the three largest clients representing 23%, 19%, and 15% of net revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2003, net revenues from our three largest clients amounted to 69% of our net revenues, with the three largest clients representing 41%, 21%, and 7% of net revenues, respectively. We expect that a relatively small number of clients will continue to represent a significant percentage of our net revenue although our largest clients from year to year vary. Our contracts with these clients generally can be terminated on short notice. The loss of business from any one of these significant clients or our failure to continue to obtain new business would have a material and adverse effect on our business and revenues. Loss of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain additional personnel, may cause the success and growth of our business to suffer. Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific team to provide strategic direction, develop business, provide service to our clients, manage our operations and finances, and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. The loss of their services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of business development and strategic objectives. As a provider of complex clinical trial support services, our success depends on our ability to retain key employees and to attract additional qualified employees. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain additional highly qualified employees in the future. Specifically, we are substantially dependent upon the efforts of Kenneth M. Borow, M.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer and Alison O’Neill, our Senior Vice President, Global Operations. We have an employment agreement with Dr. Borow which expires on March 31, 2006. We currently do not have an employment agreement with Ms. O’Neill. The loss of services of any of our key executives would have a material and adverse affect on our business operations, results of operations and financial position. Competition for our key executives and skilled personnel, particularly those with a medical degree, a Ph.D. or equivalent degrees, is intense. We compete with contract research organizations, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and academic and research institutions with far greater financial resources to recruit skilled personnel. Our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and scientific staff could have a material and adverse affect on our business plan, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified executives and scientific staff in the future. The fixed price nature of the Company’s contracts could have a negative impact on our operating results. The majority of our contracts are at fixed prices. As a result, we bear the risk of cost overruns. If we fail to adequately price our contracts, fail to effectively estimate the cost to complete contracts, or if we experience significant cost overruns, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In 2003 and 2004, we had to commit unanticipated resources to complete projects, resulting in higher costs and lower operating margins on those projects. During 2005, we experienced no significant cost overruns on our fixed price contracts. The Company attempts to negotiate contract amendments with the sponsor to cover services provided outside the terms of the contract. However, there can be no guarantee that the sponsor will agree to proposed amendments, and the Company ultimately bears the risk of cost overruns. We might experience similar situations in the future, which would have a material and adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We may bear financial losses because our contracts may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control. As described in our discussion of contractual arrangements in the description of our business, our contracts generally may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice. Clients may terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to: the failure of products to satisfy safety requirements; unexpected or undesired clinical results; merger or potential merger related activities; the client’s budget constraints; the client’s decision to terminate the development of a particular product or to end a particular study; insufficient patient enrollment in a study; insufficient investigator recruitment; manufacturing problems resulting in shortages of the product; or our failure to perform our obligations under the contract. This risk of loss or delay of contracts potentially has greater effect as we pursue larger 10 Table of Contents outsourcing arrangements with global pharmaceutical companies. Also, over the past several years we have observed that clients may be more willing to delay, cancel or reduce contracts more rapidly than in the past. If this trend continues, it could become more difficult for us to balance our resources with demands for our services and our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, companies may proceed with fewer clinical trials or conduct them without assistance of contract research organizations as a result of changing priorities or other internal considerations. These factors may cause such companies to cancel contracts with CROs. In general, our contracts entitle us to receive the costs of winding down the terminated project, as well as all fees earned by us up to the time of termination. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a significant contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract suitable willing volunteers for the clinical trials of our clients, our results could be materially and adversely affected. One of the factors on which we compete is the ability to recruit independent investigators who can identify volunteers for the clinical studies we manage on behalf of our clients. These clinical trials rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of volunteer subjects. These subjects generally include volunteers from the communities in which the studies are conducted, which to date have provided an adequate pool of potential subjects for research studies. Many of our contracts include specific milestone payments directly tied to the recruitment of study subjects. The trials we manage and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing volunteers on a consistent basis. Our drug or biologics development programs could result in potential liability to us. We also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. Such testing creates risk of liability for personal injury to or death of volunteers, particularly to volunteers with life-threatening illnesses, resulting from adverse reactions to the drugs administered during testing. It is possible third parties could claim that we should be held liable for losses arising from any professional malpractice of the investigators with whom we contract or in the event of personal injury to or death of persons participating in clinical trials. We do not believe we are legally accountable for the medical care rendered by third party investigators, and we would vigorously defend any such claims. However, such claims may still be brought against us requiring us to incur legal defense costs, and it is possible we could be found liable for these types of losses. Changes in outsourcing trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could materially and adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. Industry trends and economic factors that affect our clients in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries also affect our business. Our revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries in research and development. The practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire outside organizations like us to conduct clinical research projects. This practice has grown significantly in the last decade, and we have benefited from this trend. However, if this trend were to change and companies in these industries were to reduce the number of research and development projects they outsource, our business could be materially and adversely affected. For example, over the past year, mergers and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry appear to have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. The continuation of or increase of these trends could have a negative affect on our business. Additionally, numerous governments and managed care organizations have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their research and development spending, which could reduce our business. Failure to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and our operating results. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of on-going clinical research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. For example, if we were to fail to verify that patient participants were fully informed and have fully consented to a particular clinical trial, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified. If this were to happen, we could be contractually required to repeat the trial at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial cost to us. The issuance of a notice from the FDA based upon a finding of a material violation by us of GCP requirements could result in contractual liability to our clients and/or the termination of ongoing studies which could 11 Table of Contents materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, our reputation and prospects for future work could be materially and adversely diminished. Our backlog may not be indicative of future results. As of December 31, 2005, our backlog was $22.7 million. The backlog represents anticipated net revenue from uncompleted projects with our clients. We cannot be certain that the backlog we have reported will be indicative of our future results. A number of factors may affect our backlog, including: the ability of clients to reduce or expand the size and duration of the projects (some are performed over several years); the termination or delay of projects; and a change in the scope of work during the course of a project. Also, if clients delay projects, the projects will remain in backlog, but will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Accordingly, historical indications of the relationship of backlog to revenues may not be indicative of future results. If we are unable to successfully develop and market new services in the U.S. and internationally, our results could be materially and adversely affected. An element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new services that complement or expand our existing business. If we are unable to develop new services and create demand for those newly developed services, we may not be able to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our future business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. For example, we have invested in the creation and administrative set-up of our wholly-owned international subsidiary, Covalent Group, Ltd. which has sustained operating losses to date. We may need to make additional investments in this subsidiary in the future in order for it to achieve our objectives. The profitability of this subsidiary depends, in part, on client acceptance and use of its services. There can be no assurance that this subsidiary will be profitable in the future or that any revenue resulting from it will be sufficient to recover our investment in the subsidiary. If our international subsidiary does not develop as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in governmental regulation could reduce the need for the services we provide, which would negatively affect our future business opportunities. In recent years the United States Congress and state legislatures have considered various types of health care reform in order to control growing health care costs. The United States Congress and state legislatures may again address health care reform in the future. We are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Similar reform movements have occurred in Europe and Asia. Implementation of health care reform legislation that results in additional costs to develop new drugs could limit the profits that can be made by our clients from the development of new products. This could adversely affect our clients’ research and development expenditures, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the United States and elsewhere in the world. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. We cannot predict the likelihood of any of these events. Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the U.S., strictly regulate the drug development and approval process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Any changes in drug approval regulatory requirements such as the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying, could eliminate or substantially reduce the need for our services. These and other changes in regulation could have an impact on the business opportunities available to us. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Proposed and future laws and regulations, including the confidentiality of patient information, might increase the cost of our business, increase our risks of liability or limit our service offerings. Federal or state authorities might adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. These changes in regulation could increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our products or services. For example, the confidentiality of patient specific information and the circumstances under which it may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business are subject to substantial government regulation. Additional legislation governing the possession, use and dissemination of medical record information and other personal health information has been proposed at both the state and national levels. Proposed federal regulations governing patient specific health information might require us to implement new security measures that require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our products and services. These regulations might also increase our costs by creating 12 Table of Contents new privacy requirements and mandating additional privacy procedures for our business, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results have fluctuated between quarters and years and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied, and will continue to vary as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that may cause these variations include: the commencement, postponement, completion or cancellation of large contracts; the progress of on-going projects; changes in the mix of services offered; our ability to successfully negotiate contract amendments in a timely manner; and the timing and amount of start-up costs incurred in connection with the introduction of new products, services or subsidiaries. A significant percentage of our operating costs are fixed. The timing of the completion, delay or loss of contracts, or the progress of client projects, can cause our operating results to vary substantially between reporting periods. We had an accumulated deficit of $5,418,116 and $3,933,377 as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, versus positive retained earnings of $289,918 for the year ended December 31, 2003. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. While fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results could negatively impact the market price of our common stock, these fluctuations may not be related to our future overall operating performance. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend upon our clients, study sites and our facilities, as well as the ability to readily travel among these, for the continued operation of our business. We also depend upon the continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, telecommunications networks, Internet servers and related infrastructure. We have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events. However, catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, could still disrupt our operations, those of our clients or study sites, or our ability to travel among these locations, which would also affect us. Although we carry business interruption insurance, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting our facilities could have a material and adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We may have exposure to substantial personal injury claims and may not have adequate insurance to cover such claims. Our business primarily involves the testing of experimental drugs and biologics or other regulated FDA products on consenting human volunteers pursuant to a study protocol. These tests create a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of volunteers resulting from negative reactions to the drugs administered or from improper care provided by third party investigators, particularly to volunteers with life-threatening illnesses. In connection with many clinical trials, we contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on human volunteers. We do not believe that we are legally accountable for the medical care rendered by third party investigators, and we seek to limit our liability with our clients, third party investigators and others. Although our contracts with clients generally include indemnity provisions and we have loss insurance, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we had to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of an indemnity or insurance coverage. Additionally, our financial condition could be adversely affected if our liability exceeds the amount of our insurance. We believe that our risks are generally reduced by the following: contracts with our clients and, where applicable, investigators containing provisions entitling us to be indemnified by them; insurance maintained by our clients, investigators, where applicable, and by us; and various regulatory requirements we must follow in connection with our business. Contractual indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear the cost of defending any claim which is not covered by a contractual indemnification provision, in the event that a party who must indemnify us does not fulfill its indemnification obligations or which is beyond the level of our insurance coverage. In addition, we may not be able to continue to maintain adequate insurance coverage on terms acceptable to us. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our products and services less competitive or obsolete. The clinical research aspects of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, products or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, products or services, or render our technologies, 13 Table of Contents products or services less competitive or obsolete. For example, if our proprietary technology systems were to become less competitive or obsolete, our ability to develop new business and our operating results would be adversely affected. If competitors introduce superior technologies, products or services and we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, products and services necessary for us to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, results of operations and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues and earnings are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations as well as international economic, political and other risks. In 2005, approximately 7% of our net revenues were derived from contracts denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, factors associated with international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could affect our results of operations and financial condition. We offer many of our services on a worldwide basis and we are therefore subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that net revenues from international operations may grow in the future and represent a greater percentage of total net revenues. As a result, our future results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, including: changes in a specific country’s political or economic conditions; potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; and unfavorable labor regulations applicable to our international operations. The Remedium acquisition could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In March 2006, we announced the planned acquisition of Remedium OY, a privately held CRO based in Espoo, Finland. If we close the Remedium acquisition as expected, we would need to integrate the acquisition into our business operations. In doing so, we may face difficulties in coordinating and assimilating geographically separate units or organizations and integrating, motivating and retaining personnel with diverse business backgrounds. Further, we may not be able to successfully implement appropriate operational, financial and management systems and controls to achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquisition. In addition, our ability to integrate the Remedium acquisition could be affected by factors beyond our control, including regulatory developments, general economic conditions, and increased competition. The integration of the Remedium acquisition may also result in disruption to our existing business and the loss of existing key personnel and clients, or the loss of the acquired business’ key personnel or clients. The occurrence of one or more of the above, or other factors, may adversely affect our ability to achieve the benefits anticipated from the Remedium acquisition. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected since the Remedium acquisition may not achieve the revenue growth and profitability expected. Our stock price may be volatile and could experience substantial declines. The market price of our common stock has experienced historical volatility and might continue to experience volatility in the future in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in: operating results; changes in backlog and new business results; the issuance of analysts’ reports; market conditions in the industry; prospects of health care reform; changes in governmental regulations; and changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets. The general equity markets have also experienced significant fluctuations in value. This volatility and the market variability has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have never declared a cash dividend on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain future earnings for reinvestment in our business. Failure to satisfy NASDAQ SmallCap Market maintenance criteria could negatively impact the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market in December 1997. There are several requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market including, but not limited to, a minimum stock price of $1.00 per share and either (a) $2.5 million or more in stockholders’ equity, (b) market capitalization of $35.0 million or more, or (c) net income in the last fiscal year, or two of the last three fiscal years, of $500,000 or more. If our common stock price closes below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days, we may receive notification from NASDAQ that our common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ SmallCap Market unless the stock closes at or above $1.00 per share for at least ten consecutive days during the 180-day period following such notification. In the future, our common stock 14 Table of Contents price or tangible net worth may fall below the NASDAQ SmallCap Market listing requirements, or we may not comply with other listing requirements, with the result being that our common stock might be delisted. If our common stock is delisted, we may list our common stock for trading over-the-counter. Delisting from the NASDAQ SmallCap Market could adversely affect the liquidity and price of our common stock and it could have a long-term impact on our ability to raise future capital through a sale of our common stock. In addition, it could make it more difficult for investors to obtain quotations or trade our stock. Our common stock may not continue to qualify for exemption from the “penny stock” restrictions, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. The SEC has adopted regulations which define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, these rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about current quotations for the securities and about commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative. Finally, broker-dealers must send monthly statements to purchasers of penny stocks disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. These penny stock restrictions will not apply to our shares of common stock as long as: (1) they continue to be listed on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market; (2) certain price and volume information is publicly available about our shares on a current and continuing basis; and (3) we meet certain minimum net tangible assets or average revenue criteria. Our common stock may not continue to qualify for an exemption from the penny stock restrictions. If our shares of common stock were subject to the rules on penny stocks, the liquidity of our common stock would be adversely affected. 