Risk Factors” beginning on page 9 for a more complete discussion of factors which could cause our actual results and financial position to change. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS This Business section outlines our current business and sets forth our strategy to further expand our business. However, we do not currently have the funding necessary to carry out our short and long term expansion strategies. As a result, if we are unable to increase our revenues, reduce our operating costs or secure capital from external sources, we will need to significantly reduce our operating costs which will jeopardize the future strategic initiatives and business plans of the Company. General In this discussion, the terms “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Encorium Group, Inc. (formerly Covalent Group, Inc.) and our consolidated subsidiaries, except where it is made clear otherwise. We are a clinical research organization (“CRO”) that engages in the design and management of complex clinical trials for the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. Our mission is to provide our clients with high-quality, full-service support for their clinical trials. We offer therapeutic expertise, experienced team management and advanced technologies. We have the capacity and expertise to conduct clinical trials on a global basis. Our clients consist of some of the largest companies in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. From protocol design and clinical program development, to proven patient recruitment, to managing the regulatory approval process, we have the resources to directly implement or manage Phase I through Phase IV clinical trials. We offer a broad range of clinical research and development services supporting Phase I through Phase IV clinical trials, such as strategic trial planning, project management, monitoring, data management and biostatistics, pharmacovigilance, medical writing, quality assurance, outsourcing of clinical staff, and medical device certification in the European Union. We have clinical trial experience across a wide variety of therapeutic areas, such as cardiovascular, nephrology, endocrinology/metabolism, hematology, diabetes, neurology, oncology, immunology, vaccines, infectious diseases, gastroenterology, dermatology, hepatology, rheumatology, urology, ophthalmology, women’s health and respiratory medicine. The mix of projects is subject to change from year to year. On November 1, 2006, we expanded our international presence with the acquisition of Remedium Oy, a CRO founded in 1996 in Finland which offers clinical trial services to the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. With the acquisition of Remedium, we gained a Northern and Eastern European presence with offices in Espoo, Turku, Tampere, Oulu and Seinäjoki (Finland), Copenhagen (Denmark), Tallinn (Estonia), Vilnius (Lithuania), Stockholm (Sweden), Bucharest (Romania), Warsaw (Poland), and Ankara (Turkey). Remedium and a number of its subsidiaries have been renamed using the Encorium name. However, for purposes of clarity, we refer to the acquired company and its subsidiaries using the Remedium name throughout this report. We currently manage all of our European and Asian clinical trial studies from Remedium’s facility in Espoo, Finland and our North American and South American clinical trial studies from our headquarters in Wayne, Pennsylvania. We were initially incorporated in August 1998 in Nevada. In June 2002, we changed our state of incorporation to Delaware. In October 2006, we changed our name to Encorium Group, Inc. from Covalent Group, Inc. in connection with the acquisition of Remedium. Industry Overview The CRO industry provides independent clinical trial and product development services for the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. Companies in these industries often outsource product development services to CROs in order to manage the drug development process more efficiently and cost-effectively. 2 Table of Contents Outsourcing also enables these companies to access expertise and experience beyond their organizations. Historically, many companies in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries have performed the majority of their product development internally. Outsourcing drug development activities to CROs provides these companies with a variable cost alternative to the fixed costs associated with internal drug development. Companies no longer need to staff for peak periods and can benefit from a CRO’s technical resources, therapeutic expertise, and the global infrastructure required to conduct clinical trials on a worldwide basis. At the present time, we believe that the percentage of services required for product development that are being outsourced is increasing and will continue to increase in the future because of numerous factors, including: cost containment pressures; attempts to overcome limitations on internal capacity; a desire to improve the timeline for evaluating and developing new drugs and/or devices; the desire to increase the percentage of development costs that are variable as compared to fixed costs; the need to perform research relating to new drugs in multiple countries simultaneously; the response to increasingly stringent government regulations in various countries; and the desire to use external expertise to supplement internal design and development capabilities. As the investment required to develop new drugs continues to increase, an opportunity is created to help speed the drug development process or make this process more efficient. Our Strategy Our strategy is to be a leader in the design and management of complex clinical trials by providing our clients with exceptional performance ensuring that they achieve their goals on-time, on-budget and with superlative quality. Our competitive advantage is based upon our ability to deliver a knowledge-based and intellectually rich level of service that provides our clients with a well-conceived protocol design and operational plan intended to maximize their return on investment. We believe that many of the reported regulatory delays or rejections for prospective drugs can be directly attributed to underlying issues in protocol design and development. Our Company is led by experienced executives with significant prior success in the drug development and regulatory approval process. Unlike larger, more conventional CROs, we provide a value-added approach to the design and management of clinical trials. We believe that our leadership in the design of complex clinical trials, our application of innovative technologies, our therapeutic expertise and our commitment to quality offer clients a means to more quickly and cost-effectively develop products through the clinical trial process. A significant aspect of our strategy is to expand our geographic presence by acquisition or through the formation of strategic partnerships. With the acquisition of Remedium on November 1, 2006, we gained a Northern and Eastern European presence. Founded in 1996, Remedium was a privately owned CRO offering clinical trial services to the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Remedium offers a broad range of clinical research and development services supporting Phase I through Phase IV clinical trials, such as strategic trial planning, project management, monitoring, data management and biostatistics, Pharmacovigilance, medical writing, quality assurance, outsourcing of clinical staff, and medical device certification in the European Union. Remedium has offices Turku, Tampere, Oulu and Seinajoki (Finland), Copenhagen (Denmark), Tallinn (Estonia), Vilnius (Lithuania), Stockholm (Sweden), Bucharest (Romania), Warsaw (Poland), and Ankara (Turkey). Remedium also utilizes independent contractor relationships in Riga (Latvia), Oslo (Norway) and Kiev (Ukraine). We believe this global expansion is necessary in order to provide us with significant strategic benefits, including: • The expansion of our geographic footprint to regions of the world with diverse patient population for the conduct of human clinical trials; • Greater scale to better compete in the clinical research organization market; • Increase in revenue bulk; 3 Table of Contents • Diversification of business offerings and client services; and • Enhancement of management and business development capabilities. Recognizing the dynamic nature of the pharmaceutical and medical device development process, our experience and capabilities enable us to adapt our services to fit our clients’ specific needs. The distinguishing features of our services include the following: Experienced Management We are an established company led by a senior management team who average greater than 20 years of clinical research experience from both the CRO and pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry perspective. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. David Ginsberg, D.O. has over 25 years of executive experience within the biopharmaceutical industries working for such companies as Omnicare Clinical Research, Omnicomm Systems, Concorde Clinical Research and Wyeth. Dr. Ginsberg received his D.O. from The Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine and his B.A. Degree from Temple University. Our Executive Chairman and President of Europe and Asia, Dr. Kai Lindevall, was the co-founder of Remedium. Dr. Lindevall has a Ph.D. in Pharmacology and an M.D. from the University of Tampere in Finland. Dr. Lindevall has worked in the pharmaceutical industry for the majority of his career. Credibility in the Clinical Research Marketplace We have a diversified client base with a good mix of clients based in North America and Europe. We believe we have gained the confidence of our clients as demonstrated by their entrusting us with broad responsibilities, including designing and implementing global clinical research programs for some of their most important products. We provide leadership in a wide variety of therapeutic areas including cardiovascular, endocrinology/metabolism, diabetes, nephrology, immunology, vaccines, infectious diseases, gastroenterology, hepatology, women’s health, and respiratory medicine. Global Capabilities To expand our international presence, on November 1, 2006 we acquired Remedium which has offices in Turku, Tampere, Oulu and Seinajoki (Finland), Copenhagen (Denmark), Tallinn (Estonia), Vilnius (Lithuania), Stockholm (Sweden), Bucharest (Romania), Warsaw (Poland), and Ankara (Turkey). We are continuing our strategy to expand our global footprint by acquisition or through the formation of strategic partnerships, since we believe we need a far reaching global presence in order to effectively compete for large scale clinical trials. We believe we must further enhance our global capabilities in South America in order to increase our global reach and serve a more diverse group of clients. We have made a determined effort to broaden and diversify our client list. This has resulted in an attractive mix of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We will continue to focus on expanding our capabilities both in the United States and internationally in an effort to better position us to meet our clients’ global clinical trial requirements. Our Services We offer our clients on a global basis a broad range of clinical research and development services supporting Phase I through Phase IV clinical trials. Our services include study protocol design, clinical trials management, global data management services, biostatistics, medical and regulatory affairs, quality assurance and compliance and medical report writing. 4 Table of Contents Study Protocol Design A significant value we provide to our clients is in designing the initial study protocol or in significantly enhancing the protocol’s design. The study protocol is the critical document provided to the study investigators that defines the study and details the procedures which must be followed for the proper conduct of the trial. The protocol defines the medical issues the study seeks to examine and the statistical tests that will be conducted. The protocol also defines the frequency and type of laboratory and clinical measurements to be performed, tracked and analyzed. Also defined is the number of patients required to produce a statistically meaningful result, the period of time over which they must be tracked, and the frequency and dosage of drug administration. A properly designed protocol targets the correct primary efficacy variable or safety parameters (i.e. the key outcome being studied, such as a reduction in sitting diastolic or systolic blood pressure), is statistically sound, effectively incorporates strategic marketing and product positioning issues, and proactively conforms to regulatory guidelines. We believe that many of the reported regulatory delays or rejections for prospective drugs can be directly attributed to underlying issues in protocol design and study process. Clinical Trials Management We serve our clients’ needs by conducting clinical trials through a project team. A project manager leads and facilitates all aspects of the conduct of the clinical trial. Other members of the project team typically include representatives from clinical trials management, global data services, regulatory affairs, information services, quality assurance, medical writing and field monitoring. Within this project-oriented structure, we can manage every aspect of clinical trials conducted in Phases I through Phase IV of the drug development process. We have adopted global standard operating procedures intended to satisfy global regulatory requirements and serve as tools for controlling and enhancing the quality of our clinical trials. All of our standard operating procedures are designed and maintained in compliance with Good Clinical Practice (“GCP”) requirements and the International Conference on Harmonization (“ICH”) standards which have been adopted by both the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) and the European union. We compile, analyze, interpret and submit data generated during clinical trials in report form to our clients, as well as, at our client’s request, directly to the FDA or other relevant regulatory agencies for purposes of obtaining regulatory approval. Clinical trials represent one of the most expensive and time-consuming parts of the overall drug development process. The information generated during these trials is critical for gaining marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies. We assist our clients with one or more of the following steps: • Case Report Form Design. Once the study protocol has been finalized, the Case Report Form (“CRF”) must be developed. The CRF is the document for collecting the necessary clinical data as defined by the study protocol., which for a single patient in a study could consist of 100 or more pages. • Investigator Recruitment. The success of a clinical trial is dependent upon finding experienced investigators who are capable of performing clinical trials in accordance with the highest ethical and scientific standards. During clinical trials, physicians (who are also referred to as investigators) at hospitals, clinics or other locations, supervise administration of the drug or study product to patients. We recruit investigators who contract directly with either us or our clients to participate in clinical trials. Our global investigator database includes thousands of physician-investigators specializing in a multitude of therapeutic areas. • Patient Enrollment. The investigators find and enroll patients suitable for the study. The speed at which trials can be completed is significantly affected by the rate at which patients are enrolled. Prior to participating in a clinical trial, patients are required to review information about the study medication and its possible side effects, and sign an informed consent form to record their knowledge and acceptance of potential side effects. Patients also undergo a medical examination by the investigator to determine whether they meet the requirements of the study protocol. Patients then receive the study medication and are examined by the investigator as specified by the study protocol. 5 Table of Contents • Study Monitoring and Data Collection. Patients are reviewed or “monitored” by specially trained field monitors (also known as clinical research associates). Field monitors visit study sites regularly to ensure that the CRFs are completed correctly and that the data specified in the protocol is obtained. The field monitors send completed CRFs to the data management group within the Company where they are reviewed for consistency and accuracy before the data is entered into a database. An alternative data flow process utilizes remote data entry technology and a fax based system that frequently enhances the timeliness of clinical data collection while achieving cost savings to the Sponsor. We are currently involved in studies using both types of data flow processes. Data Management Services We have automated the data management process associated with clinical trial management through our use and customization of industry standard software known as clinical trials management systems. We license Oracle Clinical® and Datafax™ as our clinical trials management systems, which assists us in the collection, validation and reporting of clinical results to our clients. Our data management professionals provide CRF review and tracking, data entry, integrated clinical/statistical reports, as well as writing manuscripts for publication. Biostatistics Typically, biostatisticians assist clients with all phases of drug development, including biostatistical consulting, database design, data analysis and statistical reporting. Our services include the use of professionals that assist in the development and review of protocols, the design of appropriate analysis plans and the design of report formats to specifically address the objectives of the study protocol, as well as the client’s individual objectives. Medical and Regulatory Affairs Typically, before a drug, biologic, or medical device can be sold in a particular country, it must be approved by the regulatory agency in that country. We provide comprehensive regulatory product registration services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology products and medical devices in the United States and Europe. These services include regulatory strategy formulation, New Drug Application (“NDA”) and Biologic License Application document preparation and review, quality assurance and liaison with the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Quality Assurance and Compliance We conduct field inspections that include investigator audits, pre-submission protocol compliance audits and GCP audits. Our staff also provides training sessions to our personnel, as well as to study site employees. Finally, our Quality Assurance and Compliance group performs audits of study documents as well as data contained in our clinical trials databases. Report Writing The statistical analysis findings for data collected during the trial, together with other clinical data, are presented in study form to our clients, or at a client’s request, directly to the FDA or other regulatory agencies for purposes of obtaining regulatory approval. Patient Registries Patient registries provide an opportunity to rapidly populate databases with real-world, patient-derived information that can be analyzed and disseminated in multiple formats. This has become particularly important considering the recent issues that have come to the forefront regarding long-term patient safety associated with FDA approved and commercially marketed drugs. Data collection, analysis and reporting requirements for patient registries are significantly less stringent than for traditional phase IIIb and IV studies. Their success is 6 Table of Contents independent of investigator experience. Therefore, a patient registry is an ideal tool for reaching out to the primary care population in a clinically meaningful and credible way. In addition, patient registries facilitate and improve relationship building between biopharmaceutical companies and regional/local opinion leaders and high volume providers. They increase access to these important community based physicians while creating a credible, necessary, real-world decision database that provides multiple patient safety, commercialization, communication and education opportunities for stakeholders in the healthcare environment. Clients and Marketing We provide a broad range of clinical research and consulting services to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. Our clients consist of some of the largest companies in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. In 2008, we provided services to 85 different clients covering 172 separate studies of which 69 clients and 144 studies were associated with our European operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 26% of our net revenues were attributed to our operations based in the United States and approximately 74% from operations in Europe. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 37% of our net revenue were attributable to our operations based in the United States and approximately 63% from our operations in Europe. In 2008, our three largest clients accounted for 29% of our net revenues, with the three largest representing 10%, 10% and 9% of our net revenues, respectively. In 2007, our three largest clients accounted for 38% of our net revenues, with the three largest representing 15%, 12% and 11% of our net revenues, respectively. None of our European clients accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues. Our largest clients for any one year period may not represent the same customers as in a prior year period. We are generally awarded contracts based upon our response to requests for proposals received from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Our business development and marketing strategy is based on expanding our relationships with our existing clients as well as gaining new clients. The acquisition of Remedium has given us the ability to attract and serve a more diverse client base due to its presence in Northern and Eastern Europe and has given us access to a new group of clients that Remedium has a successful history of serving. We are focusing our business development efforts in these regions to assist us in broadening and diversifying our client base. Our senior executives and project team leaders all share responsibility for maintaining and enhancing client relationships and business development activities. Our business development program is supported by a marketing and communications program that includes selective advertising in trade publications, management of the corporate web site, development of marketing materials, and related activities. Contractual Arrangements The majority of our contracts are based on a fixed price with the option for additional variable components (i.e. change of scope). Therefore, we generally bear the risk of cost overruns, but we may also benefit if the costs are lower than we anticipated. Contracts may range from a few months to several years depending on the nature of the work performed. In general, for multi-year contracts, a portion of the contract fee, typically 10-20% is paid at the time the trial is started, with the balance of the contract fee payable in installments over the trial duration. In some cases, the installments are tied to meeting specific service criteria, while others have an agreed upon fixed payment plan independent of certain service criteria. For example, installment payments for clinical trial projects may be related to investigator recruitment or patient enrollment. For our contracts with our clients in Europe that are fee for service, we are paid on a monthly basis for actual hours worked. As with fixed price contracts, we generally bear the risk of cost overruns until a change of scope is signed. However, the risk of non-payment is minimal since the scope of our services is limited in this type of contractual arrangement. As is typical in the CRO industry, when a client requests a change in the scope of a trial or in the services to be provided by us, we prepare a work order. An executed work order becomes an amendment to the original contract. Work orders resulting from changes of scope often produce additional revenue for us. We are at risk for any work performed 7 Table of Contents outside the scope of the study or in advance of signing a new work order. We attempt to negotiate contract amendments with the client to cover any services provided outside the terms of the original contract. There can be no assurance that the client will agree to the proposed amendments, and we ultimately bear the risk of cost overruns. Most of our contracts may be terminated by the client at any time for any reason with prior notice. Our contracts frequently entitle us to receive the costs of winding down the terminated project, as well as all fees earned by us up to the time of termination. Contracts may be terminated or delayed for several reasons, including, but not limited to unexpected results or adverse patient reactions to the drug, inadequate patient enrollment or investigator recruitment, manufacturing problems resulting in shortages of the drug, budget constraints of clients or decisions by the client to de-emphasize or terminate a particular trial. Backlog Our backlog consists of anticipated net revenue from uncompleted projects which have been authorized by the client through a written contract or letter of intent. Many of our studies and projects are performed over an extended period of time, which may be several years. Amounts included in backlog have not yet been recognized as net revenue in our consolidated statements of operations. Once contracted work begins, net revenue is recognized over the life of the contract as services are performed. The recognition of net revenue reduces our backlog while the awarding of new business increases our backlog. In 2008, we obtained $36.1 million of new business awards, an increase of $6.4 million, as compared to $29.7 million awarded in 2007. Our consolidated backlog was approximately $34.3 million at December 31, 2008, compared to $38.7 million at December 31, 2007, a decrease of $4.4 million. Our backlog at December 31, 2008 consists of $23.8 million from our European operations and $10.5 million for our operations based in the United States. We expect approximately 63% of this backlog will be recognized as net revenue in 2009, subject to the risk factors listed herein. We believe that our backlog as of any date may not necessarily be a meaningful predictor of future results because backlog can be affected by a number of factors including the size and duration of contracts, many of which are performed over several years. Additionally, contracts may be subject to early termination by the client or delayed for many reasons, as described above. Also, the scope of a contract can change during the course of a study. For these reasons, we might not be able to fully realize our entire backlog as net revenue. For example, backlog as of December 31, 2006 was originally estimated to be approximately $55 million. However, due to a contract cancellation in January 2007 with approximately $12.8 million remaining, the Company’s adjusted backlog as of December 31, 2006 was approximately $42.5 million. In addition, since our backlog is reported in U.S. Dollars, but the majority of our contracts are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce the amount of backlog reported. Also, if clients delay projects, the projects will remain in backlog, but will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Competition The clinical research organization industry is highly fragmented and is comprised of a number of large, full-service CROs with global capabilities as well as many smaller companies with limited service offerings. We primarily compete against full-service and limited service CROs, mid-sized CROs, in-house research and development departments of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and, to a lesser extent, universities and teaching hospitals. CROs generally compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the following: expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas; the ability to design sound protocols or enhance the design; reputation for on-time quality performance; scope of service offerings; price; ability to enroll patients and recruit investigators; data management capabilities; strengths in various geographic markets around the world; technological expertise and efficient drug development processes; the ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a timely and accurate manner; the ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both domestically and internationally; and organizational size. Although there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so, we believe that we compete favorably in these areas. 8 Table of Contents Some of our largest competitors include Quintiles Transnational Corporation, Covance, Inc., Parexel International Corporation, Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., Icon Clinical Research and Kendle International, Inc. These larger CROs have substantially greater financial and operational resources and larger geographic presences than we do. In general, the CRO industry is not capital-intensive and the financial costs of entry into the industry are relatively low. Newer, smaller entities with specialty focuses, such as those aligned to a specific disease or therapeutic area, may compete aggressively against us for clients. Furthermore, clients may also choose to limit the CROs with whom they are willing to work under certain preferred provider relationships. Increased competition might lead to heightened price and other forms of competition that may materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Government Regulation The development and clinical research of new drugs is highly regulated by government agencies. The standards for the conduct of clinical research and development studies are embodied in governmental regulations and in standards such as the ICH guideline for GCP. These standards stipulate procedures designed to ensure the quality and integrity of data obtained from clinical testing and to protect the rights and safety of clinical subjects. The FDA and similar regulatory authorities require that test results submitted to such authorities be based on studies conducted in accordance with GCP and regulations providing protections for research participants. Our obligations under GCP may include, but are not limited to, the following: assuring the selection of investigators who are qualified and have adequate staff and facilities to conduct the trial properly and safely; obtaining specific written commitments from investigators; verifying that adequate informed consent of trial subjects has been obtained; monitoring clinical trials to ensure that the rights and well-being of trial subjects are protected and that the reported trial data are accurate, complete, and verifiable from source documents; ensuring that adverse drug reactions are medically evaluated and reported; verifying drug or device accountability; implementing quality assurance and quality control systems; instructing investigators and study staff to maintain proper records and reports; and permitting appropriate governmental authorities access to source documents for their review. We must also maintain reports for each study for specified periods for auditing by the study sponsor and by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities. Noncompliance with GCP can result in disqualification of the data collected during a clinical trial and we could be required to redo the trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our client, but at substantial cost to us. CROs such as Encorium are also typically contractually obligated to comply with GCP and other patient protection regulations. Failure to comply could expose us to contractual liability to our clients. Intellectual Property We have developed certain computer software and technically derived procedures that provide separate services and are intended to maximize the quality and effectiveness of our services. Our intellectual property rights are important to us. We also believe that factors such as the technical expertise, knowledge, ability and experience of our professionals are important and provide significant benefits to our clients. Potential Liability and Insurance We contract with physicians who serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on their patients. Drug testing creates a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients, resulting from adverse reactions to the drugs administered. In addition, although the Company does not believe it is legally accountable for the medical care rendered by third party investigators, it is possible that we could be subject to claims and expenses arising from any professional malpractice of the investigators with whom we contract. We also may be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with the services we perform. We believe that the risk of liability to patients in clinical trials is mitigated by various regulatory requirements, including the role of institutional review boards (“IRBs”). An IRB is an independent committee that includes both medical and non-medical personnel whose role is to protect the interests of patients enrolled in the trial. 9 Table of Contents In addition, we attempt to reduce our risk through contractual indemnification provisions with clients and investigators. However, contractual indemnifications generally do not protect us against certain of our own actions such as negligence. In addition, the terms and scope of indemnification provisions vary from client to client and from trial to trial and the financial performance of these indemnities is not secured. Therefore, we bear the risk that the indemnity may not be sufficient or that the indemnifying party may not have the financial ability to fulfill its indemnification obligations. We also attempt to reduce our risk by maintaining worldwide professional liability insurance. We believe that our professional liability insurance coverage is adequate; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our operating results and financial position could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim outside the scope of or in excess of a contractual indemnification provision or the coverage available under our insurance policies. Employees At December 31, 2008, we employed 226 full-time and 9 part-time personnel, of which 169 full-time and 8 part-time personnel were based outside of the United States. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. In addition, during 2008, we supplemented our employee base with contractors on an as-needed basis. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may not be able to meet our cash requirements without implementing cost cutting initiatives, increasing revenues, and maintaining current customer contracts; failure to do so will result in the need to raise additional capital or significantly reduce our operating costs, which may include the cessation of operations in certain countries. We anticipate that we will meet our cash requirements through March of 2010, assuming we are able to fully implement our current costs cutting initiatives, we are able to win additional contracts during fiscal 2009 and we are able to maintain our current customer contracts. In the event we are unable to do so, in order for the Company to continue as a going concern we will be required to obtain additional capital from external sources or significantly reduce our operating costs, which may include the cessation of operations in some countries. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, as well as conditions in our business and our operating results; and those factors may affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. We have been working with an investment banking firm to seek strategic alternatives, including outside investments. To date, our efforts to secure additional investments have not proven successful given the general economic and lending environment, coupled with the Company’s current financial position. Given the current levels of the trading price of the Company’s common stock, if the Company were to raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders’ percentage ownership would be reduced and they would experience substantial dilution. If we were to raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. The perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may adversely affect our business. Any perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may cause others to choose not to deal with us due to concerns about our ability to meet our contractual obligations and may adversely affect our ability to win new contracts and/or raise additional capital. 10 Table of Contents Our backlog may not be indicative of future results. Backlog is the amount of revenue that remains to be earned and recognized on written awards, signed contracts and letters of intent. We cannot be certain that the backlog we have reported will be indicative of our future results. A number of factors may affect our backlog, including: the ability of clients to reduce or expand the size and duration of the projects (some are performed over several years); the termination or delay of projects; and a change in the scope of work during the course of a project. In addition since our backlog is reported in U.S. Dollars, but the majority of our contracts are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, changes in the foreign currency exchange rates could reduce the amount of backlog reported. Also, if clients delay projects, the projects will remain in backlog, but will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Accordingly, historical indications of the relationship of backlog to revenues may not be indicative of future results and should not be relied upon. Our inability to forecast our revenue pipeline or convert revenue pipeline into contracts could increase fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast contract awards and trends in our business. Our management team monitors the status of all potential contract awards, including the potential dollar amount of each contract transaction. We aggregate these estimates periodically to generate a pipeline and then evaluate the pipeline to identify trends in our business. This pipeline analysis and related estimates of revenue may differ significantly from actual revenues in a particular reporting period. When customers delay contracts, reduce the amount of their contract or cancel contracts altogether, it will reduce the rate of conversion of the pipeline into contracts and our revenues will be harmed. Our inability to respond to a variation in the pipeline or in the conversion of the pipeline into contracts in a timely manner, or at all, could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately and thereby could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results can be expected to fluctuate from period to period. Fluctuating operating results are usually due to the level of new business awards in a particular period and the timing of the initiation, progress or cancellation of significant projects. Even a short acceleration or delay in such projects could have a material effect on our results in a given reporting period. Varying periodic results could adversely affect the price of our common stock if investors react to our reporting operating results which are less favorable than in a prior period or lower than those anticipated by investors or the financial community generally. Our stock price may continue to experience fluctuations. The market prices of securities of thinly-traded companies such as ours generally are highly volatile. For example, since January 1, 2008, the price of our common stock reached a high of $2.42 on February 1, 2008 and a low of $.20 on December 2, 2008. In this market environment, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such a sale might occur would likely have a materially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Any litigation brought against us as a result of this volatility could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could negatively impact our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, and the price of our common stock. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities in a fluctuating market, many or all of our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution, and if we need to raise capital by issuing equity securities at a time when our stock price is down, we may have difficulty raising sufficient capital to meet our requirements. 11 Table of Contents We may incur additional impairment charges which may adversely affect our results of operations. The Company follows the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141, “Business Combinations “ and SFAS No. 142, “ Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ,” applicable to business combinations. In accordance with these standards, goodwill acquired in connection with the acquisition of Remedium was not amortized. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill is subject to impairment testing annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. As a result of the decrease in the stock price of the Company and market volatility generally, we performed an interim goodwill impairment testing as of September 30, 2008. The first step of impairment testing involves a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit, in this case Remedium, with its aggregate carrying values, including goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. We determined the fair value of Remedium using a combination of the income approach methodology of valuation, which includes the discounted cash flow method, and the relative market value approach methodology. The relative market value approach methodology includes the comparison of revenue and income multiples of comparable companies within the industry that the Company operates. If the carrying amount of Remedium exceeds its fair value, we perform the second step of the impairment test to determine the amount of the impairment loss. The second step of the impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of Remedium’s goodwill and identifiable intangibles with the respective carrying values. As of September 30, 2008, Management was able to complete the first step of the impairment testing, and estimated that the amount of goodwill acquired in connection with the acquisition of Remedium was impaired, necessitating a non-cash impairment charge of $1.86 million in the third quarter of 2008 and reducing the carrying value of goodwill. Management updated its step one analysis and completed the second step of the impairment analysis in accordance with SFAS No. 142 as of November 1, 2008 and, due to the continued deterioration of the underlying comparable companies within the CRO industry as it relates to the market value approach methodology, has determined that an additional non-cash impairment charge of $12.5 million is to be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008. Impairment testing involves various estimates and assumptions, which could vary, and an analysis of relevant market data and market capitalization. If our stock price continues to decline or if economic conditions continue to deteriorate, we may incur additional impairment charges which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to develop new business in our intensely competitive industry will cause our revenues to decline. The market for clinical research services is highly competitive. We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies and other clinical research organizations. Competitors in our industry range from small, limited-service providers to full service, global clinical research organizations. Many of our competitors have an established global presence, including Quintiles Transnational Corp., Covance, Inc., Parexel International Corporation, Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., Icon Clinical Research, and Kendle International, Inc. In addition, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Significant factors in determining whether we will be able to compete successfully include: our consultative and clinical trials design capabilities; our reputation for on-time quality performance; our expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas; the scope of our service offerings; our ability to recruit investigators and study subjects in a timely manner; our strength in various geographic markets; the price of our services; our ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a time-saving and accurate manner; our global data services capabilities; our ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both domestically and internationally; and our size. If our services are not competitive based on these or other factors and we are unable to develop an adequate level of new business, our business, backlog position, financial condition and results of operations will be 12 Table of Contents materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may compete for fewer clients arising out of consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry and the growing tendency of drug companies to outsource to a smaller number of preferred clinical research organizations that have far greater resources and capabilities. Our services may from time to time experience periods of increased price competition that could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and revenues. Additionally, the CRO industry is not highly capital-intensive, and the financial costs of entry into the industry are relatively low. Therefore, as a general matter, the industry has few barriers to entry. Newer, smaller entities with specialty focuses, such as those aligned to a specific disease or therapeutic area, may compete aggressively against us for clients. We depend on a small number of industries and clients for our business, and the loss of one of our significant clients could cause revenues to drop quickly and unexpectedly. Historically, projects in the fields of cardiovascular, oncology, immunology, vaccines, medical devices as well as clinical staff outsourcing have represented 50-75% of our European project work, although the mix of projects is subject to change from year to year. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net revenues from our three largest clients amounted to 29% of our net revenues, with the three largest clients representing 10%, 10% and 9% of our net revenues, respectively. None of our European clients represented more than 10% of our net revenues in 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2007, net revenues from our three largest clients amounted to 38% of our net revenues, with the three largest clients representing 15%, 12% and 11%, respectively. We expect that a relatively small number of clients will continue to represent a significant percentage of our net revenue. The contracts with our clients generally can be terminated on short notice. The loss of business from any significant client or our failure to continue to obtain new business would have a material and adverse effect on our business and revenues. Loss of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain additional personnel, may cause the success and growth of our business to suffer. Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific team to provide strategic direction, develop business, provide service to our clients, manage our operations and finances, and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. The loss of their services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of business development and strategic objectives. As a provider of complex clinical trial support services, our success depends on our ability to retain key employees and to attract additional qualified employees. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain additional highly qualified employees in the future. The loss of services of any of our key executives may have a material and adverse affect on our business operations, results of operations and financial position. Competition for our key executives and skilled personnel, particularly those with a medical degree, a Ph.D. or equivalent degrees, is intense. We compete with clinical research organizations, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and academic and research institutions that have far greater financial resources to recruit skilled personnel. Our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and scientific staff could have a material and adverse affect on our business plan, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified executives and scientific staff in the future. We may bear financial losses because our contracts may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control. Our contracts generally may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice. Clients may terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, the failure of products to satisfy safety requirements, unexpected or undesired clinical results, merger or potential merger- 13 Table of Contents related activities, the client’s budget constraints, the client’s decision to terminate the development of a particular product or to end a particular study, insufficient patient enrollment in a study, insufficient investigator recruitment, manufacturing problems resulting in shortages of the product, or our failure to perform our obligations under the contract. For example, in January 2007 a client cancelled a contract having $12.8 million in revenues remaining. This risk of loss or delay of contracts potentially has greater effect as we pursue larger outsourcing arrangements with global pharmaceutical companies. Also, over the past several years we have observed that clients may be more willing to delay, cancel or reduce contracts more rapidly than in the past. In addition, companies may proceed with fewer clinical trials or conduct them without assistance of contract research organizations as a result of changing priorities or other internal considerations. These factors may cause such companies to cancel contracts with CROs, such as Encorium. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a significant contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The fixed price nature of our contracts could have a negative impact on our operating results. The majority of our contracts are at fixed prices. As a result, we bear the risk of cost overruns. If we fail to adequately price our contracts, fail to effectively estimate the cost to complete fixed price contracts, or if we experience significant cost overruns, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, contacts with our clients are subject to change orders, which occur when the scope of work performed by us needs to be modified from what was originally contemplated by our contract with the client. This can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key study assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we cannot recognize additional revenue anticipated from change orders until appropriate documentation is received by us from the client authorizing the change made. However, if we incur additional expense in anticipation of receipt of that documentation, we must recognize the expense as incurred. Further, we may not be successful convincing our clients to approve change orders which change the scope of current contracts. Such under-pricing or significant cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Changes in outsourcing trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could materially and adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. Industry trends and economic factors that affect our clients in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries also affect our business. Our revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries in research and development. The practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire outside organizations like us to conduct clinical research projects. This practice has grown significantly in the last decade, and we have benefited from this trend. However, if this trend were to change and companies in these industries were to reduce the number of research and development projects they outsource, our business could be materially and adversely affected. For example, over the past several years, mergers and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry appear to have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. The continuation of or increase of these trends could have a negative affect on our business. Additionally, numerous governments and managed care organizations have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their research and development spending, which could reduce our business. Failure to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and our operating results. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of on-going clinical research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. For example, if we were 14 Table of Contents to fail to verify that patient participants were fully informed and had fully consented to a particular clinical trial, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified. If this were to happen, we could be contractually required to repeat the trial at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial cost to us. The issuance of a notice from the FDA based upon a finding of a material violation by us of GCP requirements could result in contractual liability to our clients and/or the termination of ongoing studies which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Similar notices could be issued from the regulatory authorities in other countries where we conduct clinical studies. Furthermore, our reputation and prospects for future work could be materially and adversely diminished. If we are unable to successfully develop and market new services in the United States, Europe and internationally, our results could be materially and adversely affected. An element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new services that complement or expand our existing business. If we are unable to develop new services and create demand for those newly developed services, we may not be able to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our future business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. For example, Remedium has invested in the creation and administrative set-up of international subsidiaries which have sustained operating losses to date. We may need to make additional investments in these subsidiaries in the future and there is no assurance that additional investments will enable us to achieve our objectives. In addition, we are considering expanding our international operations by other means, such as commencing business partnerships or clinical studies in countries where we do not have subsidiaries. The profitability of our international subsidiaries and operations depends, in part, on client acceptance and use of our services. There can be no assurance that our international subsidiaries or operations will be profitable in the future or that any revenue resulting from them will be sufficient to recover the investment in them. If our international operations or subsidiaries do not develop as anticipated, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in governmental regulation could reduce the need for the services we provide, which would negatively affect our future business opportunities. In recent years the United States Congress, state legislatures and foreign governments have considered various types of health care reform in order to control growing health care costs. The United States Congress, state legislatures and foreign governments may again address health care reform in the future. We are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Implementation of health care reform legislation that results in additional costs to develop new drugs could limit the profits that can be made by our clients from the development of new products. This could adversely affect our clients’ research and development expenditures, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the United States and elsewhere. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. We cannot predict the likelihood of any of these events. Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the U.S., strictly regulate the drug development and approval process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Any changes in drug approval regulatory requirements such as the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying, could eliminate or substantially reduce the need for our services. These and other changes in regulation could have an impact on the business opportunities available to us. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Proposed and future laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of patient information, might increase the cost of our business, increase our risks of liability or limit our service offerings. Various governments might adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. These changes could increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our products or services. For example, the confidentiality of patient specific information and the circumstances under which it may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business are subject to substantial government regulation. Additional legislation governing the possession, use and dissemination of medical record information and other personal health information has been proposed at both the state and national levels and is likely to be proposed in other countries. Proposed federal regulations governing patient specific health information might require us to implement new security measures that require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our products and services. These regulations might also increase our costs by creating new privacy requirements and mandating additional privacy procedures for our business, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial position. Recently, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, the ongoing effects of the war in Iraq, recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. If economic growth in the United States and other countries’ economies is slowed, many customers may delay or reduce spending on our services, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend upon our clients, study sites and our facilities, as well as the ability to readily travel among these, for the continued operation of our business. We also depend upon the continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, telecommunications networks, internet servers and related infrastructure. However, catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, could still disrupt our operations, those of our clients or study sites, or our ability to travel among these locations, which would also affect us. Although we carry business interruption insurance, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting our facilities could have a material and adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our products and services less competitive or obsolete. The clinical research aspects of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, products or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, products or services, or render our technologies, products or services less competitive or obsolete. For example, if our proprietary technology systems were to become less competitive or obsolete, our ability to develop new business and our operating results would be adversely affected. If competitors introduce superior technologies, products or services and we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, products and services necessary for us to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, results of operations and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We may have exposure to substantial personal injury claims and may not have adequate insurance to cover such claims. Our business primarily involves the testing of experimental drugs and biologics or other regulated products on consenting human volunteers pursuant to a study protocol. These tests create a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of volunteers resulting from negative reactions to the drugs administered or from improper care provided by third-party investigators, particularly to volunteers with life-threatening illnesses. In connection with many clinical trials, we contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on human volunteers. We do not believe that we are legally accountable for the medical care rendered by third party investigators, and we seek to limit our liability with our clients, third party investigators and others. Although our contracts with clients generally include indemnity provisions and we have loss insurance, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we had to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of an indemnity or insurance coverage. Additionally, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if our liability exceeds the amount of our insurance. Contractual indemnification provisions generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear the cost of defending any claim which is not covered by a contractual indemnification provision, in the event that a party who must indemnify us does not fulfill its indemnification obligations, or if the amount we are required to pay is beyond the level of our insurance coverage. In addition, we may not be able to continue to maintain adequate insurance coverage on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to attract suitable willing volunteers for the clinical trials of our clients, our results could be materially and adversely affected. One of the factors on which we compete is the ability to recruit independent investigators who can identify volunteers for the clinical studies we manage on behalf of our clients. These clinical trials rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of volunteer subjects. These subjects generally include volunteers from the communities in which the studies are conducted, which to date have provided an adequate pool of potential subjects for research studies. Many of our contracts include payments for achieving specific targets directly tied to the recruitment of study subjects. The trials we manage and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing volunteers on a consistent basis. If we are unable to safeguard our networks and clients’ data, our clients may not use our services and our business may be harmed. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hacking, computer viruses and other security problems. An individual who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. Security measures that we adopt from time to time may be inadequate. We may have difficulty obtaining director and officer liability insurance in acceptable amounts for acceptable rates. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain in the future sufficient director and officer liability insurance coverage at acceptable rates and with acceptable deductibles and other limitations. Failure to obtain such insurance could materially harm our financial condition in the event that we are required to defend against and resolve any future securities class actions or other claims made against us or our management. Further, the inability to obtain such insurance in adequate amounts may impair our future ability to retain and recruit qualified officers and directors. 17 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future. Our business strategy contemplates future acquisitions which may result in us incurring unanticipated expenses or additional debt, difficulty in integrating our operations and dilution to our stockholders and may harm our operating results. We expect to acquire complementary businesses in the future as part of our business strategy. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include: (i) the inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses or to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other expected value; (ii) difficulties in managing and coordinating operations at new sites; (iii) the loss or termination of key employees of acquired businesses; (iv) the loss of key customers of acquired businesses; (v) performance of acquired products; (vi) unanticipated expenses in connection with refining and improving acquired products; (vii) diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and (viii) risks of entering businesses and markets in which we have no direct or limited prior experience. Acquisitions may result in the utilization of cash and marketable securities, dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of debt, any of which would weaken our financial position. In addition, acquisitions may result in the creation of (i) certain definite-lived intangible assets that increase amortization expense, (ii) goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets that subsequently may result in large write-downs should these assets become impaired and (iii) earn-out or other payments that may need to be expensed rather than recorded as additional goodwill. In addition, in order to finance any acquisition, we might need to raise additional funds through public or private financings or use our cash reserves. In that event, we could be forced to obtain equity or debt financing on terms that are not favorable to us or that result in dilution to our stockholders. Use of our cash reserves for acquisitions could limit our financial flexibility in the future. We may not be able to identify or complete transactions with attractive acquisition candidates, which could adversely affect our business strategy. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued, and may continue to pursue, targeted acquisition opportunities that we believe would complement our business. If we are not able to acquire strategically attractive businesses, we may not be able to remain competitive in our industry or achieve our overall growth plans. We currently fail to meet two of NASDAQ’s listing requirements and if our common stock is delisted it could negatively impact the price of our common stock, our ability to access the capital markets and the liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market in December 1997. There are several requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market including, but not limited to, a minimum stock price of $1.00 per share and either (i) $2.5 million or more in stockholders’ equity, (ii) market capitalization of $35 million or more, or (iii) net income in the last fiscal year, or two of the last three fiscal years, of $500,000 or more. For the last 30 consecutive business days the bid price of our common stock has closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and consequently we are not in compliance with the requirements for continued listing of our common stock. However, given the current extraordinary market conditions, NASDAQ has suspend enforcement of the bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements through July 19, 2009. As a result, if the Company’s closing bid price of the Company’s common stock is less than $1.00 for a period of thirty consecutive days after July 19, 2009, we may 18 Table of Contents receive notification from NASDAQ that our common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market unless the stock closes at or above $1.00 per share for at least ten consecutive days during the 180-day period following such notification. In addition, on September 25, 2008, the Company received a notification from NASDAQ stating that the Company failed to comply with NASDAQ’s independent audit committee requirements as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4350. The Company has until the earlier of the Company’s next annual shareholders’ meeting or September 5, 2009 to regain compliance. If we fail to comply and cannot remedy our noncompliance during any applicable notice or grace periods, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. If delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock will likely be quoted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called “pink sheets” or quoted in the OTC Bulletin Board. In addition, our common stock would be subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require brokers who sell securities that are subject to the rules, and who sell to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors, to complete required documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with information concerning the risks of trading in the security. These requirements would make it more difficult to buy or sell our common stock in the open market. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by clients and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could negatively impact the market price of our stock Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance price. If, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. If branded pharmaceutical, biotechnology, generic drug or medical device companies reduce their expenditures, our future revenue and profitability may be reduced. Our business and continued expansion depend on the research and development expenditures of our clients which, in turn, are impacted by their profitability. If these companies want to reduce costs, they may proceed with fewer clinical trials and other drug development. An economic downturn or other factors may cause our clients to decrease their research and development expenditures which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Actions or inspections by regulatory authorities may cause clients not to award future contracts to us or to cancel existing contracts, which may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be subject to continuing inspections of our facilities and documentation in connection with studies we have conducted in support of marketing applications, or routine inspections of our facilities that have yet to be inspected by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities can have significant authority over the conduct of clinical trials, and they have the power to take regulatory and legal action in response to violations of clinical standards, subject protection and regulatory requirements in the form of civil and criminal fines, injunctions and other measures. If, for example, the FDA obtains an injunction, such action could result in significant obstacles to future operations. Additionally, there is a risk that actions by regulatory authorities, if they result in significant inspectional observations or other measures, could cause clients not to award us future contracts or to cancel existing contracts. Depending upon the amount of revenue lost, the results could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We might lose business opportunities as a result of healthcare reform. Numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with healthcare providers and drug companies. Healthcare reform could reduce the demand for our services and, as a result, our revenue. In the last several years, the U.S. Congress has reviewed several comprehensive healthcare reform proposals. The proposals are intended to expand healthcare coverage for the uninsured and reduce the growth of total healthcare expenditures. Congress has also considered and may adopt legislation which could have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for prescription drugs. Any such legislation could cause our customers to spend less on research and development. If this were to occur, we could have fewer clinical trials for our business, which could reduce our earnings. Similarly, pending healthcare reform proposals outside the U.S. could negatively impact revenues from foreign operations. Our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations or financial position. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from countries outside the U.S. and we anticipate that revenues from foreign operations will grow. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: • less stable political and economic environments and changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, • potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to repatriate profits, • unfavorable labor regulations, • greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, • the need to ensure compliance with the numerous regulatory and legal requirements applicable to our business in each of these jurisdictions, and to maintain an effective compliance program to ensure compliance, • changes in trade policies, regulatory requirements and other barriers, • civil unrest or other catastrophic events, and • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions. These factors are beyond our control. The realization of any of these or other risks associated with operating in foreign countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our substantial non-U.S. operations expose us to currency risks. We operate in many countries and are subject to exchange rate gains and losses for multiple currencies. We may also be subject to foreign currency transaction risk when our service contracts are denominated in a currency other than the currency in which we incur expenses or earn fees related to such contracts. Changes in the exchange rate foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could materially affect the translation of our subsidiaries’ financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 20 Table of Contents 