Risk Factors. Our operations are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect financial performance. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed money. Changes in the general level of interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, influence the amount of interest income that we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest that we pay on deposits and borrowings. Changes in monetary policy and interest rates also can adversely affect: • our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; • the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and • the average duration of our securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. The operating restrictions imposed by the OTS in the supervisory agreements limit our ability to grow, which may adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. In February 2006, the Company and the Bank each entered into supervisory agreements with the OTS. The supervisory agreements provide for a number of restrictions on the operations of the Company and the Bank, including the requirement for the Company to cease paying dividends and to not repurchase any shares of its common stock and for the Bank to not grow in any quarter in excess of the greater of its net interest credited or 3% (on an annualized basis). For further information, see Item 1, “Business — Supervisory Agreements.” If the restrictions imposed by the supervisory agreements are not removed or reduced, it may adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and thus may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the supervisory agreements, the Company submitted a capital plan to the OTS. The Company’s capital plan, which has been approved by the OTS, calls for, among other things, an equity infusion in order to reduce the Company’s debt-to-equity ratio below 50%. A private placement was undertaken in order to comply with the Company’s capital plan. The net proceeds from this private placement both increased the Company’s capital as well as reduced its debt-to-equity ratio. We may be unable to successfully implement our business strategy. Implementation of our business strategy is dependent on (i) the termination of the supervisory agreements we entered into in February 2006 with the OTS or the elimination of, or substantial reduction in, the operating restrictions imposed by such agreements, in particular the restriction limiting our asset growth, which likely will depend, in part, on our ability to comply with the provisions of our capital plan which was approved by the OTS in May 2006; (ii) our ability to attract sufficient low cost retail and commercial deposits; (iii) maintaining existing and attracting new business banking relationships; (iv) expanding our commercial business and commercial real estate lending portfolios; (v) attracting and retaining experienced commercial lenders and other key managerial employees; and (vi) expanding our branch network in Delaware and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania. The failure to achieve these strategic goals could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and thus our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to lending risk and could suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including those related to dealing with individual borrowers, nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to closely manage our credit risk through loan underwriting and application approval procedures, monitoring of large loan relationships and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our lending department and third party loan review specialists. We cannot assure that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. 37 Our loan portfolio includes commercial and multi-family real estate, commercial business and construction loans which have a generally higher risk of loss than single-family residential loans. As of September 30, 2008, approximately 32.6% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial business, construction and land development and commercial and multi-family real estate loans. We are focused on increasing these types of loans in the future. These types of loans involve increased risks because the borrower’s ability to repay the loan typically depends on the successful operation of the business or the property securing the loan. Additionally, these loans are made to small or middle-market business customers who may be more vulnerable to economic conditions and who may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. These types of loans are also typically larger than single-family residential mortgage loans or consumer loans. Furthermore, since these types of loans frequently have relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or more of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans and/or non-performing assets. An increase in non-performing loans would result in a reduction in interest income recognized on loans. An increase in non-performing loans also could require us to increase the provision for losses on loans and increase loan charge-offs, both of which would reduce our net income. All of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of September 30, 2008, the Bank had $11.9 million of classified assets consisting of $11.1 million in commercial loans. See “Business — Asset Quality.” Adverse economic and business conditions in our primary market area could cause an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The substantial majority of our real estate loans are secured by properties located in Delaware and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania, our primary market area. Furthermore, at September 30, 2008, approximately 32.6% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial business, construction and land development and commercial and multi-family real estate loans. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, particularly in the Philadelphia metropolitan area, including decreases in real estate values, adverse local employment conditions, and other significant local events. Any deterioration in the local economy could result in borrowers not being able to repay their loans, the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans to borrowers declining and the quality of the loan portfolio deteriorating. This could result in an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require the Company to record loan charge-offs and/or increase the Company’s provisions for loan losses, which would reduce the Company’s earnings. Our allowance for losses on loans may be insufficient to cover actual losses on loans. We maintain an allowance for losses on loans at a level believed adequate by us to absorb credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for losses on loans is a reserve established through a provision for losses on loans charged to expense that represents our estimate of probable incurred losses within the loan portfolio at each statement of condition date and is based on the review of available and relevant information. The level of the allowance for losses on loans reflects, among other things, our consideration of the Company’s historical experience, levels of and trends in delinquencies, the amount of classified assets, the volume and type of lending, and current and anticipated economic conditions, especially as they relate to the Company’s primary market area. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for losses on loans inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual losses experienced on loans. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for losses on loans. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for losses on loans and may require an increase in the provision for losses on loans or the recognition of further loan charge offs, based on judgments different from ours. Also, if charge offs in future periods exceed the allowance for losses on loans, we will need additional provisions to increase our allowance for losses on loans. Any increases in the allowance for losses on loans will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At September 30, 2008, the allowance for loan losses was equal to 1.2% of total (adjusted)gross loans and 142.7% of total non-performing loans. 38 The fair value of our investment securities held to maturity is less than the carrying value of such securities. At September 30, 2008, the Company held approximately $133.6 million in available-for-sale securities, representing 25.6% of our total assets. Generally accepted accounting principles require that these securities be carried at fair value on our balance sheet. Unrealized holding gains or losses on these securities, that is, the difference between the fair value and the amortized cost of these securities, net of deferred taxes, is reflected in our equity. Movements in interest rates, either increasing or decreasing, can impact the value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio. As of September 30, 2008, our available-for-sale securities portfolio had a net unrealized loss of approximately $4.1 million. The decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities affects our equity because it causes an increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss, which is a component of total stockholders’ equity. The available-for-sale securities at September 30, 2008 included trust preferred securities with an aggregate amortized cost of $9.4 million and an aggregate fair value of $6.6 million. The Company is closely monitoring our investments in trust preferred securities in light of recent price volatility. Continued price declines could result in a write-down of one or more of the trust preferred investments or of the other investment securities that have a fair value below amortized cost. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area with other financial institutions offering products and services similar to those we offer. We compete with savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks in making loans, attracting deposits and recruiting and retaining talented employees, many of which have greater financial and technical resources than us. Currently, there are more than 30 competing financial institutions in Delaware and Chester Counties, our principal market area. We also compete with securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial service providers. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions to which we are subject, yet are able to provide customers with a feasible alternative to traditional banking services. The competition in our market for making commercial and construction loans has resulted in more competitive pricing as well as intense competition for skilled commercial lending officers. These trends could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow (irrespective of the limitations imposed by the supervisory agreements) and remain profitable. In addition, if we experience an inability to recruit and retain skilled commercial lending officers, including experienced construction lenders, it could pose a significant barrier to retaining and growing our customer base. The competition in our market for attracting deposits also has resulted in more competitive pricing. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision which could adversely affect our operations. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulations and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with law, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Deposit Insurance Premium Could Be Substantially Higher in the Future Which Would have an Adverse Effect on Our Future Earnings. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of a large financial institution and several smaller ones have significantly increased the Deposit Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio to 1.01% as of June 30, 2008, 18 basis points below the reserve ratio as of March 31, 2008. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. 39 On October 7, 2008, the FDIC released a five-year recapitalization plan and a proposal to raise premiums to recapitalize the fund. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Assessment rates would increase by seven basis points across the range of risk weightings. In December 2008, the FDIC adopted its rule, uniformly increasing the risk-based assessment rates by seven basis points, annually, resulting in a range of risk-based assessment of 12 basis points to 50 basis points. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, and lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. The Actions of the U.S. Government for the Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets, or Market Response to those Actions, May Not Achieve the Intended Effect, and our Results of Operations Could Be Adversely Affected. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. Congress recently enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”). The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008, as well as any other financial instrument that the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, determines the purchase of which is necessary to promote financial market stability. As part of the EESA, the Treasury Department has developed a Capital Purchase Program to purchase up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock from qualifying financial institutions. The Capital Purchase Program was designed to strengthen the capital and liquidity positions of viable institutions and to encourage banks and thrifts to increase lending to creditworthy borrowers. The EESA also establishes a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program that gives the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation the ability to provide a guarantee for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts at eligible insured institutions. For non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, a 10 basis point annual rate surcharge will be applied to deposit amounts in excess of $250,000. The U.S. Congress or federal banking regulatory agencies could adopt additional regulatory requirements or restrictions in response to the threats to the financial system and such changes may adversely affect the operations of the Bank. In addition, the EESA may not have the intended beneficial impact on the financial markets or the banking industry. To the extent the market does not respond favorably to the Troubled Asset Relief Program or the program does not function as intended, our prospects and results of operations could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 40 