Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Relating to the Proposed Merger Between the Company and BMBC The Company Shareholders cannot be certain of the amount of merger consideration they will receive as it is subject to downward adjustment in the event that FKF Delinquencies exceed $10.5 million. Upon completion of the Merger, each share of the Company common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.6973 of a share of BMBC common stock plus $2.06 in cash. However, the amount of Merger consideration to be paid for each share of the Company common stock is subject to downward adjustment if the amount of FKF Delinquencies, as defined in the Merger Agreement, as of the month-end immediately preceding the closing of the Merger exceed $10.5 million. Depending on the amount of FKF Delinquencies, as of the month-end preceding the Merger, the consideration to be received upon consummation of the Merger for each share of the Company common stock may be reduced in incremental amounts down to 0.6845 of a share of BMBC common stock and $1.92 in cash. Because the market price of BMBC common stock will fluctuate, the Company shareholders cannot be sure of the market value of the Merger consideration they will receive. Upon completion of the Merger, each share of the Company common stock will be converted into the right to receive Merger consideration consisting of $2.06 in cash and 0.6973 of a share of BMBC common stock, subject to adjustment pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement. The market value of the BMBC common stock included in the merger consideration may vary from the closing price of BMBC common stock on the date we announced the Merger and on the date we complete the Merger and thereafter. Any change in the market price of BMBC common stock prior to completion of the Merger will affect the market value of the merger consideration that the Company shareholders will receive upon completion of the Merger. Neither BMBC nor the Company is permitted to terminate the Merger Agreement or re-solicit the vote of the Company shareholders solely because of changes in the market prices of either company’s stock. There will be no adjustment to the Merger consideration for changes in the market price of either shares of BMBC common stock or shares of the Company common stock. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in our respective businesses, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. You should obtain current market quotations for shares of BMBC common stock and for shares of the Company common stock. The Company will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on the Company and consequently on BMBC. These uncertainties may impair the Company’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is consummated, and could cause customers and others that deal with the Company to seek to change existing business relationships with the Company. Retention of certain employees may be challenging during the pendency of the Merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with BMBC. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with BMBC, BMBC’s business following the Merger could be harmed. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts the Company from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the Merger occurs without the consent of BMBC. These restrictions may prevent the Company from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger. The opinion obtained by the Company from its financial advisor will not reflect changes in circumstances between signing the Merger Agreement and completion of the merger. The Company has not obtained an updated opinion as of the date of this Form 10-K from its financial advisor as to the fairness from a financial point of view, of the merger consideration. Changes in the operations 37 Table of Contents and prospects of the Company or BMBC, general market and economic conditions and other factors that may be beyond the control of the Company or BMBC, and on which the Company’s financial advisor’s opinion was based, may significantly alter the value of the Company or the prices of shares of BMBC common stock or the Company common stock by the time the merger is completed. The opinion does not speak as of the time the merger will be completed or as of any date other than the date of such opinion. Because the Company does not currently anticipate asking its financial advisor to update its opinion, the opinion will not address the fairness of the merger consideration from a financial point of view at the time the Merger is completed. Combining the two companies may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than we expect. BMBC and the Company have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees or disruption of each company’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger. As with any merger of banking institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause us to lose customers or cause customers to take their deposits out of our banks. The success of the combined company following the Merger may depend in large part on the ability to integrate the two businesses, business models and cultures. If we are not able to integrate our operations successfully and in a timely manner, the expected benefits of the Merger may not be realized. Regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected or impose conditions that are not presently anticipated. Before the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the Merger and the Bank Merger, may be completed, various approvals or consents must be obtained from the FRB, the Pennsylvania Department of Banking, and various bank regulatory and other authorities. These governmental entities, including the FRB and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking, may impose conditions on the completion of the Merger or the Bank Merger or require changes to the terms of the Merger Agreement. Although BMBC and the Company do not currently expect that any such conditions or changes would be imposed, there can be no assurance that they will not be, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of BMBC, any of which might have a material adverse effect on BMBC following the Merger. There can be no assurance as to whether the regulatory approvals will be received, the timing of those approvals, or whether any non-standard and/or non-customary conditions will be imposed. The Merger Agreement limits the Company’s ability to pursue alternatives to the Merger. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that limit the Company’s ability to discuss competing third-party proposals to acquire all or a significant part of the Company. These provisions, which include a $1.675 million termination fee payable under certain circumstances, might discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of the Company from considering or proposing that acquisition even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share market price than that proposed in the Merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire the Company than it might otherwise have proposed to pay. If the Merger is not consummated by July 31, 2010, either BMBC or the Company may choose not to proceed with the Merger. Either BMBC or the Company may terminate the Merger Agreement if the Merger has not been completed by July 31, 2010, unless the failure of the Merger to be completed has resulted from the material failure of the party seeking to terminate the Merger Agreement to perform its obligations. 38 Table of Contents Termination of the Merger Agreement could negatively impact the Company. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, there may be various consequences. For example, the Company’s businesses may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the Merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the Merger, or the market price of the Company common stock could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and the Company’s board of directors seeks another Merger or business combination, the Company shareholders cannot be certain that the Company will be able to find a party willing to pay an equivalent or more attractive price than the price BMBC has agreed to pay in the Merger. Additionally, the restrictions currently imposed upon the Company and the Bank pursuant to the Supervisory Agreements in place with the Office of Thrift Supervision would remain in place and would continue to be binding upon the Company and the Bank. The market price of BMBC common stock after the Merger may be affected by factors different from those affecting the Company common stock or BMBC common stock currently. The businesses of BMBC and the Company differ in some respects and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of BMBC’s shares of common stock after the Merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of operations of each of BMBC or the Company. BMBC may fail to realize the cost savings estimated for the Merger. BMBC estimates to achieve cost savings from the Merger when the two companies have been fully integrated. It is possible that the estimates of the potential cost savings could turn out to be incorrect. The cost savings estimates also assume BMBC’s ability to combine the businesses of BMBC and the Company in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. If the estimates turn out to be incorrect, integration is delayed, or BMBC is not able to combine successfully the two companies, the anticipated cost savings may not be fully realized or realized at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. The Company shareholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the Merger and will exercise less influence over management. The Company’s shareholders currently have the right to vote in the election of the board of directors of the Company and on other matters affecting the Company. Upon the completion of the Merger, each the Company shareholder that receives shares of BMBC common stock will become a shareholder of BMBC with a percentage ownership of the combined organization that is much smaller than the shareholder’s percentage ownership of the Company. The former shareholders of the Company as a group will receive shares in the Merger constituting less than 20% of the outstanding shares of BMBC common stock immediately after the Merger. Because of this, the Company’s shareholders may have less influence on the management and policies of BMBC than they now have on the management and policies of the Company. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of BMBC, the Company and/or the combined company. In recent periods, United States and global markets, as well as general economic conditions, have been disrupted and volatile. Concerns regarding the financial strength of financial institutions have led to distress in credit markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions. Some financial institutions around the world have failed; others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. The United States and other governments have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions. BMBC and the Company’s businesses and financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by (1) continued disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from governmental 39 Table of Contents action in an effort to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. Further, there can be no assurance that action by Congress, governmental agencies and regulators, including the enacted legislation authorizing the U.S. government to invest in financial institutions, or changes in tax policy, will help stabilize the U.S. financial system and any such action, including changes to existing legislation or policy, could have an adverse effect on the financial position or results of operation of BMBC, the Company and/or the combined company. Impairments in the value of BMBC and the Company’s respective securities portfolios or other assets could further affect each of their results of operations or the results of operations of the combined company. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, each of BMBC and the Company is required to review its investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary-impairment of its securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of change in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may have required BMBC and the Company to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the reduction in the value recognized as a charge to BMBC and the Company’s respective earnings as it relates to the credit portion of the impairment. Recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain securities held by each of BMBC and the Company. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require either BMBC or the Company to recognize further other-than-temporary impairments in the value of its securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on its results of operations in future periods. Similarly, either BMBC or the Company may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in the value of other intangibles or goodwill, any of which may have an adverse effect on its results of operations in future periods. The Merger may fail to qualify as a tax-free reorganization under the Internal Revenue Code. The Merger of the Company into BMBC has been structured to qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. The closing of the Merger is conditioned upon the receipt by each of BMBC and the Company of an opinion of its respective tax advisor, each dated as of the effective date of the Merger, substantially to the effect that, on the basis of facts, representations and assumptions set forth or referred to in that opinion (including factual representations contained in certificates of officers of the Company and BMBC) which are consistent with the state of facts existing as of the effective date of the Merger, the Merger constitutes a reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. The tax opinions to be delivered in connection with the Merger are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and neither the Company nor BMBC intends to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the United States federal income tax consequences of the Merger. If the Merger fails to qualify as a tax-free reorganization, a shareholder of the Company would likely recognize gain or loss on each share of the Company surrendered in the amount of the difference between the shareholder’s basis in the Company shares and the fair market value of the BMBC common stock and cash received by the Company shareholder in exchange. The Company shareholders will recognize gain with respect to the cash portion of the Merger consideration. The Merger consideration to a shareholder of the Company consists of a combination of cash and BMBC common stock. Accordingly, a shareholder of the Company generally will not recognize loss but will recognize gain, if any, to the extent of the lesser of (i) the amount of gain realized (i.e., the excess of the sum of the amount of cash and the fair market value of the BMBC common stock received pursuant to the Merger over such shareholder’s adjusted tax basis in the shares of Company common stock surrendered) and (ii) the amount of cash received pursuant to the Merger. In addition, shareholders of the Company generally will have to recognize gain or loss in connection with cash received instead of a fractional share of BMBC common stock. 40 Table of Contents Holders of the Company stock options should discuss with their tax advisors the tax results of each course of action available to them. Risk Factors Related to the Operations of the Company’s Operations on a Stand-Alone Basis If the Merger with BMBC is not completed, the Company will continue to face certain risk factors related to its on-going operations. In the event that the proposed Merger with BMBC is not completed, the Company will continue its operations as an independent entity and, as such, would continue to face certain risks in its on-going operations, as described below. Even if the Merger is completed as expected in the second calendar quarter of 2010, the Company will face these risks on an independent basis until the time of the Merger. If the Merger is not completed, the Company will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the Merger. The Company has incurred substantial expenses in connection with the Merger. The completion of the Merger depends on the satisfaction of specified conditions and the receipt of regulatory approvals and the approval of the Company’s shareholders. The Company cannot guarantee that these conditions will be met. If the Merger is not completed, these expenses could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations on a stand-alone basis. In addition, the market price of the Company’s common stock would likely decline in the event that the Merger is not consummated as the current market price likely reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed. If the Merger is not completed, we may have to revise our business strategy. During the past several months, management of the Company has been focused on, and has devoted significant resources to, the Merger. This focus is continuing and the Company has not pursued certain business opportunities which may have been beneficial to the Company on a stand-alone basis. If the Merger is not completed, the Company will have to revisit its business strategy in an effort to determine what changes may be required in order for the Company to operate on an independent, stand-alone basis. We may need to raise additional capital in order to continue as an independent entity if the Merger is not completed. No assurance can be given whether we would be able to successfully raise capital in such circumstances or, if so, under what terms. The operating restrictions imposed by the OTS in the supervisory agreements impose many restrictions on our operations, which may adversely affect our ability to successfully develop and implement a business strategy. In February 2006, the Company and the Bank each entered into supervisory agreements with the OTS. The supervisory agreements provide for a number of restrictions on the operations of the Company and the Bank, including the requirement for the Company to cease paying dividends and to not repurchase any shares of its common stock and for the Bank to not grow in any quarter in excess of the greater of its net interest credited or 3% (on an annualized basis). For further information, see Item 1, “Business—Supervisory Agreements.” If the restrictions imposed by the supervisory agreements are not removed or reduced, it may adversely affect our ability to successfully develop and implement a business strategy that would facilitate our ability to successfully operate on an independent, stand-alone basis. We are subject to lending risk and could suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including those related to dealing with individual borrowers, nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of 41 Table of Contents collateral and changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to closely manage our credit risk through loan underwriting and application approval procedures, monitoring of large loan relationships and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our lending department and third party loan review specialists. We cannot assure that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. Our loan portfolio includes commercial and multi-family real estate, commercial business and construction loans which have a generally higher risk of loss than single-family residential loans. As of September 30, 2009, approximately 36.9% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial business, construction and land development and commercial and multi-family real estate loans. During fiscal 2009, we increased our emphasis on originating these types of loans. These types of loans involve increased risks because the borrower’s ability to repay the loan typically depends on the successful operation of the business or the property securing the loan. Additionally, these loans are made to small or middle-market business customers who may be more vulnerable to economic conditions and who may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. These types of loans are also typically larger than single-family residential mortgage loans or consumer loans. Furthermore, since these types of loans frequently have relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or more of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans and/or non-performing assets. In addition, the terms of the Merger Agreement place certain restrictions on the types and amounts of loans which may be originated by the Bank without BMBC’s prior notification. An increase in non-performing loans would result in a reduction in interest income recognized on loans. An increase in non-performing loans also could require us to increase the provision for losses on loans and increase loan charge-offs, both of which would reduce our net income. All of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of September 30, 2009, the Bank had $22.8 million of classified assets. See Item 1, “Business—Asset Quality.” Adverse economic and business conditions in our primary market area could cause an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The substantial majority of our real estate loans are secured by properties located in Delaware and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania, our primary market area. Furthermore, at September 30, 2009, approximately 36.9% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial business, construction and land development and commercial and multi-family real estate loans. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition have been adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, particularly in the Philadelphia metropolitan area, including decreases in real estate values and adverse local employment conditions. Continuing deterioration in the local economy could result in additional borrowers not being able to repay their loans, the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans to borrowers declining and the quality of the loan portfolio deteriorating. This could result in an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require the Company to record loan charge-offs and/or increase the Company’s provisions for loan losses, which would reduce the Company’s earnings. Our allowance for losses on loans may be insufficient to cover actual losses on loans. We maintain an allowance for losses on loans at a level believed adequate by us to absorb credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for losses on loans is a reserve established through a provision for losses on loans charged to expense that represents our estimate of probable incurred losses within the loan portfolio at each statement of condition date and is based on the review of available and relevant information. The level of the allowance for losses on loans reflects, among other things, our consideration of the Company’s historical experience, levels of and trends in delinquencies, the amount of classified assets, the volume and type of lending, and current and anticipated economic conditions, especially as they relate to the Company’s primary market area. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for losses on loans inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends. 42 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual losses experienced on loans. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for losses on loans. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for losses on loans and may require an increase in the provision for losses on loans or the recognition of further loan charge offs, based on judgments different from ours. Also, if charge offs in future periods exceed the allowance for losses on loans, we will need additional provisions to increase our allowance for losses on loans. Any increases in the allowance for losses on loans will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At September 30, 2009, the allowance for loan losses was equal to 1.5% of total (adjusted) gross loans and 86.0% of total non-performing loans. Our operations are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect financial performance. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed money. Changes in the general level of interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, influence the amount of interest income that we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest that we pay on deposits and borrowings. Changes in monetary policy and interest rates also can adversely affect: • our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; • the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and • the average duration of our securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. The fair value of our investment securities held to maturity may be less than the carrying value of such securities. At September 30, 2009, the Company held approximately $113.8 million in available-for-sale securities, representing 21.5% of our total assets. Generally accepted accounting principles require that these securities be carried at fair value on our balance sheet. Unrealized holding gains or losses on these securities, that is, the difference between the fair value and the amortized cost of these securities, net of deferred taxes, is reflected in our equity. Movements in interest rates, either increasing or decreasing, can impact the value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio. As of September 30, 2009, our available-for-sale securities portfolio had a net unrealized gain of approximately $1.0 million. The increase in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities affects our equity because it causes an increase in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a component of total stockholders’ equity. The available-for-sale securities at September 30, 2009 included pooled trust preferred securities with an aggregate amortized cost of $7.7 million and an aggregate fair value of $5.6 million. The Company is closely monitoring its investments in pooled trust preferred securities in light of the ongoing price volatility. Continued price declines could result in a write-down of one or more of the pooled trust preferred investments or of the other investment securities that have a fair value below amortized cost. 43 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area with other financial institutions offering products and services similar to those we offer. We compete with savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks in making loans, attracting deposits and recruiting and retaining talented employees, many of which have greater financial and technical resources than us. Currently, there are more than 30 competing financial institutions in Delaware and Chester Counties, our principal market area. We also compete with securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial service providers. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions to which we are subject, yet are able to provide customers with a feasible alternative to traditional banking services. The competition in our market for making commercial and construction loans has resulted in more competitive pricing as well as intense competition for skilled commercial lending officers. These trends could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow (irrespective of the limitations imposed by the supervisory agreements) and remain profitable. In addition, if we experience an inability to recruit and retain skilled commercial lending officers, including experienced construction lenders, it could pose a significant barrier to retaining and growing our customer base. The competition in our market for attracting deposits also has resulted in more competitive pricing. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision which could adversely affect our operations. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulations and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with law, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any future Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums or special assessments will adversely impact our earnings. On May 22, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $240,000 during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. The final rule permits the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to levy up to two additional special assessments of up to five basis points each during 2009 if the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation estimates that the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio will fall to a level that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation believes would adversely affect public confidence or to a level that will be close to or below zero. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation general insurance premium expense will increase compared to prior periods. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted regulations that require insured depository institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The new regulations base the assessment rate for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009 and for 2010 on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment 44 Table of Contents rate for 2011 and 2012 on the modified third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Under the prepaid assessment rule, we will be required to make a payment of approximately $2.3 million to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on December 30, 2009, and to record the payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. Proposed regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. The Obama Administration has published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan that is intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system and has offered proposed legislation to accomplish these reforms. The President’s plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on the Company and the Bank. Under the proposed legislation, the federal thrift charter and the Office of Thrift Supervision would be eliminated and all companies that control an insured depository institution, such as the Company, will be required to register as bank holding companies. An existing federal thrift, such as the Bank, would become a national bank or could choose to adopt a state charter. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change, as there currently exist significant differences between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Federal Reserve imposes leverage and risk-based capital requirements on bank holding companies whereas the Office of Thrift Supervision does not impose any capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The Administration has also proposed the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, that would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the final legislation may differ significantly from the reform plan proposed by the President, we cannot determine the specific impact of any regulatory reform at this time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 45 Table of Contents 