Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results will vary, and may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected or expected. Among the key factors that may have a direct bearing on our business, operations or financial condition are the factors identified below: Our products may be subject to recall or product liability claims. Our products are used in connection with invasive procedures and in other medical contexts in which it is important that those products function with precision and accuracy. If our products do not function as designed, or are designed improperly, we may choose to or be forced by regulatory agencies to withdraw such products from the market. In addition, if medical personnel or their patients suffer injury as a result of any failure our products to function as designed, or an inappropriate design, we could be subject to lawsuits seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. Any product recall or lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. 14 Substantially all of our products are backed by a limited warranty for returns due to defects in quality and workmanship. We maintain a reserve for these future returned products, but the actual costs of such returns may significantly exceed the reserve, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Termination of relationships with our suppliers, or failure of such suppliers to perform, could disrupt our business. We rely on raw materials, component parts, finished products, and services supplied by outside third parties in connection with our business. For example, substantially all of our products are sterilized by a few entities. In addition, some of our products are manufactured or assembled by third parties. If a supplier of significant raw materials, component parts, finished goods or services were to terminate its relationship with us, or otherwise cease supplying raw materials, component parts, finished goods or services consistent with past practice, our ability to meet our obligations to our end customers may be disrupted. A disruption with respect to numerous products, or with respect to a few significant products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology or may infringe on the proprietary technology of others. Our ability to remain competitive is dependent, in part, upon our ability to prevent other companies from using our proprietary technology incorporated into our products. We seek to protect our technology through a combination of patents, trademarks, and trade secrets, as well as licenses, proprietary know-how and confidentiality agreements. We may be unable, however, to prevent others from using our proprietary information, or continue to use such information itself, for numerous reasons, including the following, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations or financial condition: • Our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from copying our proprietary technologies; • Our issued patents may be challenged by third parties and deemed to be overbroad or unenforceable; • Our products may infringe on the patents of others, requiring us to alter or discontinue our manufacture or sale of such products; • Costs associated with seeking enforcement of our patents against infringement, or defending four self against allegations of infringement, may be significant; • Our pending patent applications may not be granted for various reasons, including overbreadth or conflict with an existing patent; and • Other persons may independently develop, or have developed, similar or superior technologies. We may be unable to successfully manage growth, particularly if accomplished through acquisitions. Successful implementation of our business strategy will require that we effectively manage any associated growth. To manage growth effectively, our management will need to continue to implement changes in certain aspects of our business, to improve our information systems and operations to respond to increased demand, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to develop, train and manage an increasing number of management-level and other employees. Growth could place an increasing strain on our management, financial, product design, marketing, distribution and other resources, and we could experience operating difficulties. Any failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent that we grow through acquisition, we will face the additional challenges of integrating our current operations, culture, informational management systems and other characteristics with that of the acquired entity. We may incur significant expenses in connection with negotiating and consummating one or more transactions, and we may inherit certain liabilities in connection with the acquisition as a result of our failure or inability to conduct adequate due diligence or otherwise. In addition, we may not realize competitive advantages, synergies or other benefits anticipated in connection with such acquisition(s). If we do not adequately identify targets for, or manage issues related to its future acquisitions, such acquisitions may have a negative adverse effect on our business and financial results. 15 A significant adverse change in, or failure to comply with, governing regulations could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our products are “devices,” as defined in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, (“FDA”) and the manufacture, distribution, record keeping, labeling and advertisement of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA in the United States and its equivalent regulatory agencies in various foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed, labeled, offered and sold. Further, we are subject to continual review and periodic inspections at our current facilities with respect to the FDA’s Quality System Regulations and similar requirements of foreign countries. In addition, we are subject to certain export control restrictions governed by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and may be governed by other regulatory agencies in various foreign countries in which products are exported. Our business, operations or financial condition could be adversely affected if we are found to be out of compliance with governing regulations. If such regulations are amended to become more restrictive and costly to comply with, the costs of compliance could adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from a few products and procedures. A significant portion of our revenues are attributable to sales of our inflation devices. During the year ended December 31, 2005, sales of our inflation devices (including inflation devices sold in custom kits and through OEM channels) accounted for approximately 33% our total revenues. Any material decline in market demand for our inflation devices could have an adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. In addition, the products that have accounted for a majority of our historical revenues are designed for use in connection with a few related medical procedures, including angioplasty, stent placement procedures, and spinal procedures. If subsequent developments in medical technology or drug therapy make such procedures obsolete, or alter the methodology of such procedures so as to eliminate the usefulness of our products, we may experience a material decrease in demand for our products and experience deteriorating financial performance. We may be unable to compete in our markets, particularly if there is a significant change in relevant practices and technology. The market for each of our products is highly competitive. We face competition from many companies, many of which are larger, better established and have greater financial, technical and other resources and greater market presence than we do. Such resources and market presence may enable our competition to more effectively market competing products or to market competing products at reduced prices in order to gain market share. In addition, our ability to compete successfully is dependent, in part, upon our response to changes in technology and to our efforts to develop and market new products which achieve significant market acceptance. Competing companies with substantially greater resources than us are actively engaged in research and development of diagnostic and interventional methods, treatments and procedures that could limit the market for our products and eventually make certain products obsolete. A reduction in the demand for a significant number of our products, or a few key products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile for various reasons, including the following, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations or financial condition: • Our announcement of new products or technical innovations, or similar announcements by our competitors; • Development of new procedures that use, or do not use, our technology; • Quarter-to-quarter variances in our financial results; • Claims involving potential infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights; 16 • Analysts’ and other projections or recommendations regarding our common stock or medical technology stocks generally; • Any restatement of our financial statements or any investigation of us by the SEC or another regulatory authority; and • A general decline, or rise, of stock prices in the capital markets generally. Fluctuations in Euro and GBP exchange rates may negatively impact our financial results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the Euro and GBP relative to value of the U.S. Dollar could have a negative impact on our margins and financial results. For example, during 2005, the exchange rate between the Euro and the U.S. Dollar resulted in an increase in our gross revenues of approximately $263,000 and 0.09% in gross profit. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately $20.0 million, or 12.0%, of our sales were denominated in Euros and GBP. If the rate of exchange between the Euro and the GBP declines, against the U.S. Dollar, we may not be able to increase the prices we charge our European customers for products whose prices are denominated in Euros and GBP. Furthermore, we may be unable or elect not to enter into hedging transactions which could mitigate the effect of declining exchange rates. As a result, as the rate of exchange between Euros and GBP declines, against the U.S. Dollars, our financial results may be negatively impacted. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our success is dependent on key management personnel, including Fred P. Lampropoulos, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Lampropoulos is not subject to any agreement prohibiting his departure, and the Company does not maintain key man life insurance on his life. The loss of Mr. Lampropoulos, or of certain other key management personnel, could materially adversely affect our business and operations. Our success also depends, among other factors, on the successful recruitment and retention of key operations, manufacturing, sales and other personnel. We are subject to work stoppage, transportation and related risks. We manufacture products at various locations in the United States and in Ireland and sell our products worldwide. We depend on third-party transportation companies to deliver supplies necessary to manufacture Merit products from vendors to our various facilities and to move our products to customers, operating divisions and other subsidiaries located worldwide. Our manufacturing operations, and the operations of the transportation companies on which we depend, may be adversely affected by natural disasters or significant human events, such as a war, terrorist attack, riot, strike, slowdown or similar event. Any disruption in our manufacturing or transportation could materially adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands or our operations. Limits on reimbursement imposed by governmental and other programs may adversely affect our business. The cost of a significant portion of medical care is funded by governmental, social security or other insurance programs. Limits on reimbursement imposed by such programs may adversely affect the ability of hospitals and others to purchase our products. In addition, limitations on reimbursement for procedures which utilize our products could adversely affect sales. Item 