Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results will vary, and may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected or expected. Among the key factors that may have a direct bearing on our business, operations, or financial condition are the factors identified below: We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology or may infringe on the proprietary technology of others. We have obtained U.S. patents and filed additional U.S. and foreign patent applications; however, there can be no assurance that any patents we hold, or for which we have applied, will provide us with any significant competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge our patents, or that patents owned by others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business. We could incur substantial costs in preventing patent infringement, in curbing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by others, or in defending against similar claims of others. Since we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to maintain our competitive position, there can be no assurance that others may not independently develop similar or superior technologies. We operate in an increasingly competitive medical technology marketplace. There has also been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Our activities may require us to defend against claims and actions alleging infringement of the intellectual rights of others. If a court rules against us in any patent litigation, any of several negative outcomes could occur: we could be subject to significant liabilities, we could be forced to seek licenses from third parties, or we could be prevented from marketing certain products. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our ability to remain competitive is dependent, in part, upon our ability to prevent other companies from using our proprietary technology incorporated into our products. We seek to protect our technology through a combination of patents, trademarks, and trade secrets, as well as licenses, proprietary know-how and confidentiality agreements. We may be unable, however, to prevent others from using our proprietary information, or continue to use such information our self, for numerous reasons, including the following, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, or financial condition: · Our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from copying our proprietary technologies · Our issued patents may be challenged by third parties and deemed to be overbroad or unenforceable · Our products may infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of other parties, requiring us to alter or discontinue our manufacture or sale of such products · Costs associated with seeking enforcement of our patents against infringement, or defending our self against allegations of infringement, may be significant · Our pending patent applications may not be granted for various reasons, including over breadth or conflict with an existing patent · Other persons may independently develop, or have developed, similar or superior technologies Economic and industry conditions constantly change, and negative economic conditions in the United States and other countries could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and our results of operation are affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control. Actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession and inflation, may negatively affect consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may also experience higher bad-debt rates and slower receivable collection rates in our dealings with our customers. In addition, recent disruptions in the credit markets have resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and decreased availability of financing. As a result of these factors, there can be no assurance that financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. An inability to obtain necessary additional financing on acceptable terms may have an adverse impact on us and on our ability to grow our business. 10 Table of Contents Termination or interruption of relationships with our suppliers, or failure of such suppliers to perform, could disrupt our business. We rely on raw materials, component parts, finished products, and services supplied by outside third parties in connection with our business. For example, substantially all of our products are sterilized by only a few different entities. In addition, some of our products are manufactured or assembled by third parties. If a supplier of significant raw materials, component parts, finished goods, or services were to terminate its relationship with us, or otherwise cease supplying raw materials, component parts, finished goods, or services consistent with past practice, our ability to meet our obligations to our end customers may be disrupted. A disruption with respect to numerous products, or with respect to a few significant products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. Our products may be subject to recall or product liability claims. Our products are used in connection with invasive procedures and in other medical contexts in which it is important that those products function with precision and accuracy. If our products do not function as designed, or are designed improperly, we may choose to or be forced by regulatory agencies to withdraw such products from the market. In addition, if medical personnel or their patients suffer injury as a result of any failure of our products to function as designed, or an inappropriate design, we could be subject to lawsuits seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. Any product recall or lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. We generally offer a limited warranty for product returns which are due to defects in quality and workmanship. We attempt to estimate our potential liability for future product returns and establish reserves on our financial statements in amounts that we believe will be sufficient to address our warranty obligations; however, our actual liability for product returns may significantly exceed the amount of our reserves. If we underestimate our potential liability for future product returns, or if unanticipated events result in returns that exceed our historical experience, our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully manage growth, particularly if accomplished through acquisitions. Successful implementation of our business strategy will require that we effectively manage any associated growth. To manage growth effectively, our management will need to continue to implement changes in certain aspects of our business, to improve our information systems and operations to respond to increased demand, to attract and retain qualified personnel, and to develop, train, and manage an increasing number of management-level and other employees. Growth could place an increasing strain on our management, financial, product design, marketing, distribution and other resources, and we could experience operating difficulties. Any failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. To the extent that we grow through acquisition, we will face the additional challenges of integrating our current operations, culture, information management systems and other characteristics with that of the acquired entity. We may incur significant expenses in connection with negotiating and consummating one or more transactions, and we may inherit certain liabilities in connection with each acquisition. In addition, we may not realize competitive advantages, synergies or other benefits anticipated in connection with any such acquisition. If we do not adequately identify targets for, or manage issues related to, our future acquisitions, such acquisitions may have a negative adverse effect on our business and financial results. A significant adverse change in, or failure to comply with, governing regulations could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our products are “devices,” as defined in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and the manufacture, distribution, record keeping, labeling and advertisement of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA in the United States and its equivalent regulatory agencies in various foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed, labeled, offered or sold. Further, we are subject to regular review and periodic inspections at our current facilities with respect to the FDA’s Quality System Regulations and similar requirements of foreign countries. In addition, we are subject to certain export control restrictions governed by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and may be governed by other regulatory agencies in various foreign countries to which our products are exported. Although we believe we are currently in material compliance with these requirements, any failure on our part to comply with all applicable current and future regulations could adversely affect our business, operations, or financial condition. 11 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenues are derived from a few products, procedures and/or customers. A significant portion of our revenues are attributable to sales of our inflation devices. During the year ended December 31, 2009, sales of our inflation devices (including inflation devices sold in custom kits and through OEM channels) accounted for approximately 24% of our total revenues. Sales of our inflation devices to a single OEM customer, representing our largest customer, were approximately 6% of our total inflation device sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. Any material decline in market demand, or change in OEM supplier preference, for our inflation devices could have an adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. In addition, the products that have accounted for a majority of our historical revenues are designed for use in connection with a few related medical procedures, including angioplasty, stent placement procedures, and spinal procedures. If subsequent developments in medical technology or drug therapy make such procedures obsolete, or alter the methodology of such procedures so as to eliminate the usefulness of our products, we may experience a material decrease in demand for our products and experience deteriorating financial performance. We may be unable to compete in our markets, particularly if there is a significant change in relevant practices or technology. The market for each of our products is highly competitive. We face competition from many companies which are larger, better established, have greater financial, technical and other resources and possess a greater market presence than we do. Such resources and market presence may enable our competition to more effectively market competing products or to market competing products at reduced prices in order to gain market share. In addition, our ability to compete successfully is dependent, in part, upon our response to changes in technology and upon our efforts to develop and market new products which achieve significant market acceptance. Competing companies with substantially greater resources than us are actively engaged in research and development of new methods, treatments, drugs, and procedures to treat or prevent cardiovascular disease that could limit the market for our products and eventually make some of our products obsolete. A reduction in the demand for a significant number of our products, or a few key products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. The market price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile for various reasons, including the following, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition: · Our announcement of new products or technical innovations, or similar announcements by our competitors · Development of new procedures that use, or do not use, our technology · Quarter-to-quarter variances in our financial results · Claims involving potential infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights · Analysts’ and other projections or recommendations regarding our Common Stock specifically or medical technology stocks generally · Any restatement of our financial statements or any investigation of us by the SEC, the FDA or another regulatory authority · A decline, or rise, of stock prices in the capital markets generally Fluctuations in Euro and GBP exchange rates may negatively impact our financial results. Our material market risk relates primarily to fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the Euro and Great Britain Pound (“GBP”) relative to the value of the U.S. Dollar. Those fluctuations could have a negative impact on our margins and financial results. For example, during 2009, the exchange rate between all applicable foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar resulted in a decrease in our gross revenues of approximately $2.6 million and an increase of 0.10% in our gross profit. 12 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately $26.3 million, or 10%, of our sales, were denominated in foreign currencies. If the rate of exchange between the Euro and the GBP declines, against the U.S. Dollar, we may not be able to increase the prices we charge our European customers for products whose prices are denominated in Euros and GBP. Furthermore, we may be unable or elect not to enter into hedging transactions which could mitigate the effect of declining exchange rates. As a result, if the rate of exchange between Euros and GBP declines, against the U.S. Dollar, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Operations at our manufacturing facilities may be negatively impacted by certain factors, including severe weather conditions and the impact of natural disasters. Our operations could be affected by many factors beyond our control, including severe weather conditions and the impact of natural disasters, including hurricanes and tornados. These conditions could cause substantial damage to our facilities, interrupt our production and disrupt our ability to deliver products to our customers. Our operations in Angleton, Texas have been suspended due to hurricanes in recent years. In September 2008 we shut down our operations in Angleton in anticipation of Hurricane Ike and production was restored shortly thereafter. While we incurred minimal damage to our facility, we experienced greater financial damage as a result of the production disruption. Although our insurance covered some of the losses associated with the event, future natural disasters could increase the cost of insurance. We cannot be certain that any losses from business interruption or property damages, along with the increases in insurance costs, will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our success is dependent on key management personnel, including Fred P. Lampropoulos, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Lampropoulos is not subject to any agreement prohibiting his departure, and we do not maintain key man life insurance on his life. The loss of Mr. Lampropoulos, or of certain other key management personnel, could have a materially adverse effect our business and operations. Our success also depends on, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of key operating, manufacturing, sales and other personnel. We are subject to work stoppage, transportation and related risks. We manufacture products at various locations in the United States and foreign countries and sell our products worldwide. We depend on third-party transportation companies to deliver supplies necessary to manufacture our products from vendors to our various facilities and to move our products to customers, operating divisions, and other subsidiaries located worldwide. Our manufacturing operations, and the operations of the transportation companies on which we depend, may be adversely affected by natural disasters or significant human events, such as a war, terrorist attack, riot, strike, slowdown or similar event. Any disruption in our manufacturing or transportation could materially adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands or our operations. Limits on reimbursement imposed by governmental and other programs may adversely affect our business. The cost of a significant portion of medical care is funded by governmental, social security or other insurance programs. Limits on reimbursement imposed by such programs may adversely affect the ability of hospitals and others to purchase our products. In addition, limitations on reimbursement for procedures which utilize our products could adversely affect sales. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could affect our business and results of operations. Merit Sensor Systems, Inc. manufactures and assembles certain products that require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. While the cost of compliance with such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations historically, compliance with future regulations may require additional capital investments in pollution control equipment or changes in the way Merit Sensor Systems makes its products. Additionally, because Merit Sensor Systems uses hazardous and other regulated materials in its manufacturing processes, we are subject to certain risks of liabilities and claims resulting from any accidental releases. While we believe the precautions and infrastructure Merit Sensor Systems has put in place are sufficient, any accidental release may have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents If certain proposed healthcare reform legislative proposals are enacted into law, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In October 2009, both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives released draft healthcare reform legislation that includes provisions that would impose a fee or excise tax on certain medical devices. The proposals, as currently drafted, may apply to certain of our medical device products. Many details of the proposals remain uncertain, and any healthcare reform legislation must still be enacted by both Houses of Congress and signed by the President. If either of these medical device proposals is enacted into law, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If our employees or agents violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, we may incur fines or penalties, or experiences other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our internal control policies and procedures may not protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If our employees or agents violate the provisions of the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws, we may incur fines or penalties, we may be unable to market our products in other countries or we may experience other adverse consequences which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. We may be subject to laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, the violation of which could adversely affect our business or financial results. Our operations are subject to various state and federal laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including federal anti-kickback laws, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Violations of these fraud and abuse-related laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and health programs outside the United States, any of which could adversely affect our business or financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 