Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results will vary, and may vary materially, from those anticipated, estimated, projected or expected. Among the key factors that may have a direct bearing on our business, operations or financial condition are the factors identified below: Our products may be subject to recall or product liability claims. Our products are used in connection with invasive procedures and in other medical contexts in which it is important that those products function with precision and accuracy. If our products do not function as designed, or are designed improperly, we may choose to or be forced by regulatory agencies to recall such products from the market. Such a recall could result in significant costs and could divert management’s attention from our business. In addition, if medical personnel or their patients suffer injury in connection with the use of our products, whether as a result of a failure of our products to function as designed, an inappropriate design or for any other reason, we could be subject to lawsuits seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. We have previously faced claims by patients claiming injuries from our products. To date, these claims have not resulted in a material negative impact on our business; however, patients or customers may bring claims in a number of circumstances, including if our products were misused, if our product’s manufacture or design was flawed, if our products produced unsatisfactory results, or if the instructions for use and other disclosure of product-related risks for our products were found to be inadequate. The outcome of this type of personal injury litigation is difficult to assess or quantify. We maintain product liability insurance but there is no assurance that this coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any claim made against us. Moreover, any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in significant costs, could increase our product liability insurance rates, or could prevent us from securing coverage in the future. As a result, any product recall or lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. We generally offer a limited warranty for product returns which are due to defects in quality and workmanship. We attempt to estimate our potential liability for future product returns and establish reserves on our financial statements in amounts that we believe will be sufficient to address our warranty obligations; however, our actual liability for product returns may significantly exceed the amount of our reserves. If we underestimate our potential liability for future product returns, or if unanticipated events result in returns that exceed our historical experience, our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity. We have entered into an unsecured Credit Agreement, dated September 10, 2010 (the “Credit Agreement”), with the lenders who are or may become party thereto (collectively, the “Lenders”) and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (“Wells Fargo”), as administrative agent for the Lenders. The Credit Agreement contains a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our liquidity, and our results of operations. These covenants restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional debt; repurchase; repurchase or redeem equity interests and debt; issue equity; make certain investments or acquisitions; pay dividends or make other distributions; dispose of assets or merge; enter into related party transactions; and grant liens and pledge assets. The breach of any covenants in the Credit Agreement, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations. Any default under the Credit Agreement could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology or may infringe on the proprietary technology of others. We have obtained U.S. patents and filed additional U.S. and foreign patent applications; however, there can be no assurance that any patents we hold, or for which we have applied, will provide us with any significant competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge our patents, or that patents owned by others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business. We could incur substantial costs in preventing patent infringement, in curbing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by others, or in defending against similar claims of others. Since we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to maintain our competitive position, there can be no assurance that others may not independently develop similar or superior technologies. We operate in an increasingly competitive medical technology marketplace. There has also been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Our activities may require us to defend against claims and actions alleging infringement of the intellectual rights of others. If a court rules against us in any patent litigation, any of several negative outcomes could occur: we could be subject to significant liabilities, we could be forced to seek licenses from third parties, or we could be prevented from marketing certain products. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Our ability to remain competitive is dependent, in part, upon our ability to prevent other companies from using our proprietary technology incorporated into our products. We seek to protect our technology through a combination of patents, trademarks, and trade secrets, as well as licenses, proprietary know-how and confidentiality agreements. We may be unable, however, to prevent others from using our proprietary information, or may be unable to continue to use such information for our own purposes, for numerous reasons, including the following, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, or financial condition: · Our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from copying our proprietary technologies · Our issued patents may be challenged by third parties and deemed to be overbroad or unenforceable · Our products may infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of other parties, requiring us to alter or discontinue our manufacture or sale of such products · Costs associated with seeking enforcement of our patents against infringement, or defending our activities against allegations of infringement, may be significant · Our pending patent applications may not be granted for various reasons, including over breadth or conflict with an existing patent · Other persons or entities may independently develop, or have developed, similar or superior technologies. If our employees or agents violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, we may incur fines or penalties, or experiences other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti- 15 Table of Contents bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our internal control policies and procedures may not protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If our employees or agents violate the provisions of the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws, we may incur fines or penalties, we may be unable to market our products in other countries or we may experience other adverse consequences which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. We will be required to expend significant resources for research, development, testing and regulatory approval or clearance of our products under development and these products may not be developed successfully or approved for commercial use. We are developing and commercializing products for medical applications using embolotherapy techniques. Most of our products under development will require significant additional research, development, engineering and preclinical and/or clinical testing, as well as regulatory approval or clearance and a commitment of significant additional resources prior to their commercialization. It is possible that they may not: be developed successfully; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; offer therapeutic or other improvements over current treatments and products; meet applicable regulatory standards or receive regulatory approvals or clearances; be capable of production in commercial quantities at acceptable costs and in compliance with regulatory requirements; or be successfully marketed or covered by private or public insurers. We are conducting a clinical trial and seeking approval from the FDA to claim the use of the QuadraSphere® Microspheres for the treatment of a specific disease or condition, such as hepatocellular cancer or hepatic metastasis in the United States. European Union regulations do not require such an application for this class of medical devices. In order for us to obtain FDA approval or clearance to promote the use of QuadraSphere® Microspheres for the embolization of hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatic metastasis, we will need to complete a clinical trial and submit positive clinical data to the FDA. As we continue our clinical trial and if the results are not sufficient to obtain FDA approval, then we will not be able to promote our QuadraSphere® Microspheres for liver cancer indications in the U.S. Although we have not received approval or clearance from the FDA to market our QuadraSphere® Microspheres for primary or metastatic liver cancer in the United States, we believe that some physicians are using QuadraSphere® Microspheres in procedures which are not indicated on our labels (referred to as “off-label” use), including the treatment of primary and metastatic liver cancer. If the FDA or any other federal or state enforcement agency were to conclude that we have improperly promoted our products for unapproved indications, the FDA or such other agency could allege that our promotional activities misbrand or adulterate our products or violate other legal requirements, which could result in investigations, prosecutions, or other civil or criminal actions. The medical device industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities. Our medical devices and business activities are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and other federal, state and international governmental authorities. These authorities and members of Congress have been increasing their scrutiny over the medical device industry. In recent years, the U.S. Congress, Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Defense have issued subpoenas and other requests for information to medical device manufacturers, primarily related to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices. The Physician Payment Sunshine Act, enacted as part of the Affordable Care Act, requires device manufacturers to report payments or other transfers of value made to health care providers, effective March 2013 for calendar year 2012. In addition, certain states have recently passed or are considering legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and/or requiring disclosure of many payments to them. Recent Supreme Court decisions have clarified that the FDA’s authority over medical devices preempts state tort laws, but some members of Congress have indicated an interest in introducing tort reform legislation. We anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation by government authorities may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation, and other adverse effects to our operations. Potential reforms to the FDA’s 510(k) process could adversely affect our business, operations, or financial condition. In August 2010, the FDA issued its preliminary recommendations on reform of the 510(k) premarket notification process for medical devices. The FDA’s preliminary recommendations included, among other things, granting to the FDA authority to rescind 510(k) clearance, revising existing guidance to clarify what types of modifications to existing 510(k)-cleared devices warrant submission of a new 510(k) application, exploring the possibility of potentially requiring manufacturers to provide periodic updates to the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health (“CRDH”) listing modifications without submitting a new 510(k) application, adopting a framework for 510(k) submissions that requires formal validation of claims with supporting evidence and developing guidance 16 Table of Contents requiring that the complete device description and intended use information be submitted and described in detail in a single section of a 510(k) application. On January 19, 2011, the FDA announced its “Plan of Action” for implementing these recommendations. The Plan of Action includes 25 action items for 2011, including streamlining the review process for innovative, lower risk products (the “de novo” process); improving training for CDRH staff and industry; increasing reliance on external experts; and addressing and improving CDRH processes. If implemented, these recommendations could have the effect of making it more difficult and expensive for us, and other companies, to obtain 510(k) clearance and potentially jeopardizing the regulatory status of certain 510(k)-cleared devices. We are subject to laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, the violation of which could adversely affect our business or financial results. Our operations are subject to various state and federal laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including federal anti-kickback laws, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Violations of these fraud and abuse-related laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and health programs outside the United States, any of which could adversely affect our business or financial results. A significant adverse change in, or failure to comply with, governing regulations could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our products are “devices,” as defined in the FDCA, and the manufacture, distribution, record keeping, labeling and advertisement of substantially all of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA in the United States and its equivalent regulatory agencies in various foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed, labeled, offered or sold. Further, we are subject to regular review and periodic inspections at our current facilities with respect to compliance with the FDCA, FDA’s Quality System Regulations and similar requirements of foreign countries. In addition, we are subject to certain export control restrictions governed by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and may be governed by other regulatory agencies in various foreign countries to which our products are exported. Although we believe we are currently in material compliance with these requirements, any failure on our part to comply with all applicable current and future regulations could adversely affect our business, operations, or financial condition. Increases in the price of commodity components, particularly petroleum-based products, or loss of supply could have an adverse effect on our business. Many of our products have components that are manufactured using resins, plastics and other petroleum-based materials. Our ability to operate profitably is dependent, in large part, on the availability and pricing of these materials. The availability of these products is affected by a variety of factors beyond our control, including political uncertainty in the Middle East, and there is no assurance that crude oil supplies will not be interrupted in the future. Any such interruption could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce, or on the cost to produce, our products. Also, crude oil prices generally fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel-related transportation costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and political uncertainty in the Middle East. Our suppliers may pass some of their cost increases on to us, and if such increased costs are sustained or increase further, our suppliers may pass further cost increases on to us. In addition to the effect on resin prices, transportation costs generally increase based on the effect of higher crude oil prices, and these increased transportation costs may be passed on to us. Our ability to recover such increased costs may depend upon our ability to raise prices on our products. Due to the highly competitive nature of the healthcare industry and the cost-containment efforts of our customers and third party payors, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we are unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Economic and industry conditions constantly change, and negative economic conditions in the United States and other countries could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and our results of operation are affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control. Actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession and inflation, may negatively affect consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends, any of which could adversely affect our business or results of operations. We may also 17 Table of Contents experience higher bad-debt rates and slower receivable collection rates in our dealings with our customers. In addition, recent disruptions in the credit markets have resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and decreased availability of financing. As a result of these factors, there can be no assurance that financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. An inability to obtain necessary additional financing on acceptable terms may have an adverse impact on us and on our ability to grow our business. Termination or interruption of relationships with our suppliers, or failure of such suppliers to perform, could disrupt our business. We rely on raw materials, component parts, finished products, and services supplied by outside third parties in connection with our business. For example, substantially all of our products are sterilized by only a few different entities. In addition, some of our products are manufactured or assembled by third parties. If a supplier of significant raw materials, component parts, finished goods, or services were to terminate its relationship with us, or otherwise cease supplying raw materials, component parts, finished goods, or services consistent with past practice, our ability to meet our obligations to our end customers may be disrupted. A disruption with respect to numerous products, or with respect to a few significant products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. We may be unable to successfully manage growth, particularly if accomplished through acquisitions. Successful implementation of our business strategy will require that we effectively manage any associated growth. To manage growth effectively, our management will need to continue to implement changes in certain aspects of our business, to improve our information systems and operations to respond to increased demand, to attract and retain qualified personnel, and to develop, train, and manage an increasing number of management-level and other employees. Growth could place an increasing strain on our management, financial, product design, marketing, distribution and other resources, and we could experience operating difficulties. Any failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we will face the additional challenges of integrating the operations, culture, information management systems and other characteristics of the acquired entity with our own. We have incurred, and may incur, significant expenses in connection with negotiating and consummating one or more transactions, and we may inherit significant liabilities in connection with prospective acquisitions. In addition, we may not realize competitive advantages, synergies or other benefits anticipated in connection with any such acquisition. If we do not adequately identify targets for, or manage issues related to, our future acquisitions, such acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Fluctuations in Euro and GBP exchange rates may negatively impact our financial results. Our material market risk relates primarily to fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the Euro and Great Britain Pound (“GBP”) relative to the value of the U.S. Dollar. Those fluctuations could have a negative impact on our margins and financial results. For example, during 2010, the exchange rate between all applicable foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar resulted in a decrease in our gross revenues of approximately $936,000. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately $32.9 million, or 11%, of our sales, were denominated in foreign currencies. If the rate of exchange between the Euro and the GBP declines against the U.S. Dollar, we may not be able to increase the prices we charge our European customers for products whose prices are denominated in Euros and GBP. Furthermore, we may be unable or elect not to enter into hedging transactions which could mitigate the effect of declining exchange rates. As a result, if the rate of exchange between Euros and GBP declines against the U.S. Dollar, our financial results may be negatively impacted. We depend on generating sufficient cash flow to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures, and ongoing operations. We are dependent on our cash on hand and free cash flow to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures and ongoing operations. Our ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations will depend on our ability to continue to generate cash flow. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or we are unable to access additional liquidity sources, we may not be able to service or repay our debt, operate our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs. 18 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenues are derived from a few products, procedures and/or customers. A significant portion of our revenues are attributable to sales of our inflation devices. During the year ended December 31, 2010, sales of our inflation devices (including inflation devices sold in custom kits and through OEM channels) accounted for approximately 21% of our total revenues. Sales of our inflation devices to a single OEM customer, representing our largest customer, were approximately 18% of our total inflation device sales for the year ended December 31, 2010. Any material decline in market demand, or change in OEM supplier preference, for our inflation devices could have an adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. In addition, the products that have accounted for a majority of our historical revenues are designed for use in connection with a few related medical procedures, including angioplasty, stent placement procedures, and spinal procedures. If subsequent developments in medical technology or drug therapy make such procedures obsolete, or alter the methodology of such procedures so as to eliminate the usefulness of our products, we may experience a material decrease in demand for our products and experience deteriorating financial performance. We may be unable to compete in our markets, particularly if there is a significant change in relevant practices or technology. The markets in which our products compete are highly competitive. We face competition from many companies which are larger, better established, have greater financial, technical and other resources and possess a greater market presence than we do. Such resources and market presence may enable our competition to more effectively market competing products or to market competing products at reduced prices in order to gain market share. In addition, our ability to compete successfully is dependent, in part, upon our response to changes in technology and upon our efforts to develop and market new products which achieve significant market acceptance. Competing companies with substantially greater resources than us are actively engaged in research and development of new methods, treatments, drugs, and procedures to treat or prevent cardiovascular disease that could limit the market for our products and eventually make some of our products obsolete. A reduction in the demand for a significant number of our products, or a few key products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. The market price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has at times been, and may in the future be, volatile for various reasons, including those discussed in these risks factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. Other events that could cause volatility in our stock, include without limitation, quarter-to-quarter variances in our financial results; analysts’ and other projections or recommendations regarding our Common Stock specifically or medical technology stocks generally; any restatement of our financial statements or any investigation of us by the SEC, the FDA or another regulatory authority; or a decline, or rise, of stock prices in the capital markets generally. Operations at our manufacturing facilities may be negatively impacted by certain factors, including severe weather conditions and the impact of natural disasters. Our operations could be affected by many factors beyond our control, including severe weather conditions and the impact of natural disasters, including hurricanes and tornados. These conditions could cause substantial damage to our facilities, interrupt our production and disrupt our ability to deliver products to our customers. Our operations in Angleton, Texas have been suspended due to hurricanes in recent years. In September 2008 we shut down our operations in Angleton in anticipation of Hurricane Ike and production was restored shortly thereafter. While we incurred minimal damage to our facility, we experienced greater financial damage as a result of the production disruption. Although our insurance proceeds covered some of the losses associated with the event, future natural disasters could increase the cost of insurance. We cannot be certain that any losses from business interruption or property damage, along with potential increases in insurance costs, will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our success is dependent on key management personnel, including Fred P. Lampropoulos, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Lampropoulos is not subject to any agreement prohibiting his departure, and we do not maintain key man life insurance on his life. The loss of Mr. Lampropoulos, or of certain other 19 Table of Contents key management personnel, could have a materially adverse effect our business and operations. Our success also depends on, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of key operating, manufacturing, sales and other personnel. We are subject to work stoppage, transportation and related risks. We manufacture products at various locations in the United States and foreign countries and sell our products worldwide. We depend on third-party transportation companies to deliver supplies necessary to manufacture our products from vendors to our various facilities and to move our products to customers, operating divisions, and other subsidiaries located worldwide. Our manufacturing operations, and the operations of the transportation companies on which we depend, may be adversely affected by natural disasters or significant human events, such as a war, terrorist attack, riot, strike, slowdown or similar event. Any disruption in our manufacturing or transportation could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands or our operations. Limits on reimbursement imposed by governmental and other programs may adversely affect our business. The cost of a significant portion of medical care is funded by governmental, social security or other insurance programs. Limits on reimbursement imposed by such programs may adversely affect the ability of hospitals and others to purchase our products. In addition, limitations on reimbursement for procedures which utilize our products could adversely affect sales. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could affect our business and results of operations. Merit Sensor Systems manufactures and assembles certain products that require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. While the cost of compliance with such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations historically, compliance with future regulations may require additional capital investments in pollution control equipment or changes in the way Merit Sensor Systems makes its products. Additionally, because Merit Sensor Systems uses hazardous and other regulated materials in its manufacturing processes, we are subject to certain risks of liabilities and claims resulting from any accidental releases. While we believe the precautions and infrastructure Merit Sensor Systems has put in place are sufficient to prevent accidental releases of a material nature, any accidental release may have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Recently healthcare reform legislation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 were enacted into law in the U.S. in March 2010. Certain provisions of the legislation will not be effective for a number of years. There are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impact of the legislation will be. The legislation imposes on medical device manufacturers a 2.3 percent excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices beginning in 2013. This tax burden may have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows. We cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the U.S. or internationally. However, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 