ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following are important factors we have identified that could affect our future results. You should consider them carefully when evaluating forward-looking statements made by us, including those contained in this Annual Report, because these factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. 7 Table of Contents I. Operational Considerations Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes it difficult to predict our revenue and operating results and could adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate depending on a number of factors including the following: • a high percentage of our revenue has historically been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter and any failure to receive, complete or process orders at the end of any quarter could cause us to fall short of our revenue targets; • a growing percentage of our revenue comes from our collaboration solutions, which tend to be sold in larger deals with longer lead times that are less predictable; • our operating expenses are based on expected revenues and any failure to achieve our revenue targets could cause us to fall short of our earnings targets as well; • our mix of license and service revenues can vary from quarter to quarter, creating variability in our operating margins; • because a significant portion of our revenue is in foreign currency and a significant portion of our expense structure is located internationally, shifts in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenue and/or expenses; and • we may incur significant expenses in a quarter in connection with corporate development initiatives, restructuring efforts or our investigation, defense or settlement of legal actions that would increase our operating expenses for the quarter in which those expenses are incurred. Accordingly, our quarterly results are difficult to predict prior to the end of the quarter and we may be unable to confirm or adjust expectations with respect to our operating results for a particular quarter until that quarter has closed. Any failure to meet our quarterly revenue or earnings targets could adversely impact the market price of our stock. Weakness in the United States and international economies may harm our business. As our business has expanded globally and the proportion of our revenues we generate in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region has increased, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions, especially those in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Economic growth in the United States slowed in 2008 and macroeconomic conditions have deteriorated worldwide in the second half of calendar 2008. If economic growth continues to slow, customers may delay, reduce or forego technology purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Further, deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay amounts owed to us. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our forecasts of our revenues and earnings outlook may be inaccurate. Our revenues, particularly new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast. We use a pipeline system to forecast revenues and trends in our business. We monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale and the products or services to be sold. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate the pipeline. Our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into contracts can be difficult to estimate and requires management judgment. A variation in the conversion rate could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and materially adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. In particular, a slowdown in customer spending or weak economic conditions generally can reduce the conversion rate in a particular quarter as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. 8 Table of Contents We depend on sales within the manufacturing market, which could decrease if manufacturing activity slows. A large amount of our revenues are related to sales to customers in the manufacturing sector. A decline in general economic or business conditions or a decline in spending in this sector could cause customers to reduce or defer spending on information technology, which would cause our revenue and earnings to decrease or to grow more slowly. The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing index, a key measure of U.S. manufacturing activity, fell to a seven year low in September 2008 and fell further to a 26-year low in October 2008, indicating a contraction in manufacturing activity. Accordingly, this could be our first indication that customers may begin to reduce or defer spending on our products and services, which would decrease our revenues. Our cost structure is relatively fixed in the short term, which makes it difficult to reduce our expenses quickly in response to declines in revenue or revenue growth. We make expenditures to support our revenue growth in advance of achieving the expected revenue. Our expenses associated with headcount and facilities can be difficult to reduce quickly due to the nature of those items. If revenue does not grow at the rate we expect or if it declines, our expenses may constitute a larger percentage of our operating budget than we planned, which would adversely affect our profitability. We may be adversely affected by a decline in demand for Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) solutions. We currently derive our license and service revenues predominantly from our integrated PLM software products and services and we expect this to continue into the future. As a result, factors affecting the demand for PLM software solutions, including weakness in the general economy, or pricing pressures on this single category could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are relocating some of our business functions to new locations, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of our efforts to increase our presence in strategic regions and to reduce our operating costs, we are relocating some of our business functions to new locations, including China and Russia. Transitioning those functions to those locations involves terminating employees in the location from which the business function is moved, which will cause us to incur restructuring costs and may cause disruption in those business functions as new personnel are hired and trained. Additionally, because we do not have significant operating experience in some of these countries, it may take us longer to realize the benefits we expect from relocating those functions, if at all. We use third parties, in addition to our direct sales force, for the distribution and implementation of our software solutions, which makes it more difficult to manage customer relationships. We have entered into relationships with groups of geographically dispersed resellers and other strategic partners to promote, sell and/or implement our products, which can reduce our control over the sales process and the delivery of services to our customers. Our ability to successfully distribute and implement our software solutions through third parties will depend on: • our ability to enter into agreements with appropriate third parties that can deliver our products and/or services in appropriate markets; • the third party’s ability to learn, promote and implement our products; • our ability to efficiently manage our sales channels by effectively coordinating and managing joint activities (including sales, marketing, implementation, support and customer service); and • our ability to optimize our sales and services coverage and productivity through, among other means, effective use and management of our internal resources in combination with our resellers and other strategic partners, including, when appropriate, making measured increases to our internal resources and investing in our reseller channel and other strategic partners. 9 Table of Contents We have significant sales and operations outside the United States, which exposes us to additional operating and compliance risks. Non-U.S. revenues accounted for approximately 66% of our total revenue in 2008, 61% of our total revenue in 2007 and 57% of our total revenue in 2006. We expect revenue from our non-U.S. operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. As part of our international operations, we sell and deliver software and services, and maintain support operations, in a large number of non-U.S. countries whose laws and practices differ from those in the U.S. Accordingly, while we maintain a comprehensive compliance program (including in the areas of business conduct, financial integrity, export control and anti-bribery), we cannot guarantee that an employee, agent or partner will not act in violation of PTC policy or U.S. or other applicable laws. Such violations can lead to civil and/or criminal prosecutions, substantial fines and the revocation of our rights to continue certain operations and also cause both business and reputation loss. Our international operations also subject us to additional operational risks, many of which are beyond our control, including: • imposition of U.S. and foreign government controls, such as export license requirements or other trade restrictions and changes in regulatory practices; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, such as changes in withholding taxes that could restrict the repatriation of earnings into the U.S. and affect our effective income tax rate; • unexpected changes in the political and economic environment, including curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • difficulties in obtaining the protections of intellectual property laws, if any, of other countries. Any of these events could reduce our revenue or net sales, increase our expenses or decrease our operating margins. Because a substantial portion of our sales are to existing customers and sales to new customers often rely on customer references, our business could be adversely affected if our customers were to become dissatisfied with our products and/or services. Many of our sales are follow-on sales to existing customers who invest in our product development system. If a significant number of customers were to become dissatisfied with our products or services or otherwise elected to adopt either competing solutions or a competitive product development system, we could lose those follow-on sales, which would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, we could lose an important source of references, which could adversely impact our ability to obtain new customers. Finally, a decrease in the size of our installed base could adversely affect both our license revenues and our service revenues. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if significant errors or defects are found in our software. Sophisticated software often contains errors, defects or other performance problems when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released as these enhanced versions contain additional programming code and third party sourced functionality that must work across our large product suite. If errors or defects are discovered in our current or future products, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or provide an adequate response to our customers. We may therefore need to expend significant financial, technical and management resources, or divert some of our development resources, in order to resolve or work around those defects. Errors, defects or other performance problems in our products could cause us to delay product releases or customer deployments. Any such delays could cause us to incorrectly predict the fiscal quarter in which we will realize revenue from the licensing and shipment of new or enhanced products and give our competitors a greater opportunity to market competing products. Such difficulties could also cause us to lose customers. Technical problems or the loss of customers could also damage our business reputation and cause us to lose new business opportunities. 10 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully acquire and integrate additional strategic businesses and any additional businesses we acquire may not achieve the revenue and earnings we anticipated. The success of our long-term strategic plan depends in part on our ability to acquire strategic businesses and/or technologies. If we are unable to identify and complete such acquisitions, we may not achieve our revenue or earnings targets. If the businesses and/or technologies we acquire do not generate the revenue and earnings we expect or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired technology into our products, we may not achieve our revenue or earnings targets. In addition, business combinations involve a number of factors that affect operations and operating results, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • potential loss of key personnel; • entry into unfamiliar markets, which creates new product, sales, services and support requirements; • possible assumption of unanticipated legal or financial liabilities; • possibly incurring debt to finance an acquisition; • unanticipated operating difficulties in connection with the acquired entities, including potential declines in revenue of the acquired entity; • possible impairment of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; and • dilution to our earnings per share if we were to issue stock as consideration. As a result, we may fail to successfully integrate and manage businesses and technologies that we may acquire without incurring substantial expenses, delays or other problems that could negatively impact our results of operations. If our short-term liquidity declines or we are forced to divert attention from other initiatives due to resource constraints in connection with acquisition-related activity, our ability to implement other strategic initiatives or make investments in our operational infrastructure could be impaired. We are dependent on key personnel whose loss could impair our operations, our product development or our sales efforts. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, technical and sales personnel. We require highly skilled technical personnel to develop our products. Competition for such personnel in our industry is intense. If we are unable to attract and retain technical personnel with the requisite skills, our product development efforts could be delayed, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our sales efforts rely on having a sufficient number of sales representatives with the skills and knowledge necessary to sell our products, including an ability to educate our customers about our products in order to create and meet demand for our products. If we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel with the requisite expertise, our revenue could be adversely affected. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changing technology and address our customers’ needs and expectations, and any failure to do so could reduce demand for our products. Our ability to remain competitive will depend on our ability to enhance our current offerings and develop new products and services that keep pace with technological developments and meet evolving customer requirements through: • internal research and development and quality assurance programs; • acquisition or license of technology; and 11 Table of Contents • strategic partnerships. In addition, our solutions must meet customer expectations to be successful, especially with respect to: • return on investment and value creation; • ease and rapidity of installation; • ease-of-use and interoperability; • full capability, functionality and performance; • ability to support a large, diverse and geographically dispersed user base, including the ability to support global product development programs; and • quality and efficiency of the services performed by us and our partners relating to implementation and configuration. If our solutions fail to meet customer expectations, customers may stop their adoption of our solutions, resulting in a loss of potential additional sales, and we may be unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers for our solutions. At times we provide extended payment terms to our customers, which may be a factor in our customers’ purchasing decisions, and our revenues could be adversely affected if we ceased making these terms available. We have provided extended payment terms to certain customers in connection with transactions we have completed with them. Providing extended payment terms may positively influence our customers’ purchasing decisions but may reduce our cash flows in the short-term. If we reduce the amount of extended payment terms we provide to customers, customers might reduce or defer the amount they spend on our products and services from the amount they might otherwise have spent if extended payment terms were available to them. If this were to occur, our revenue or revenue growth could be lower than in prior periods or than we expect. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. Our software products and trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection, as well as restrictions on disclosures and transferability contained in our agreements with other parties. Despite these measures, the laws of all relevant jurisdictions may not afford adequate protection to our products and other intellectual property. In addition, we frequently encounter attempts by individuals and companies to pirate our software solutions. If our measures to protect our intellectual property rights fail, others may be able to use those rights, which could reduce our competitiveness and revenues. Intellectual property infringement claims could be asserted against us, which could be expensive to defend and could result in limitations on our use of the claimed intellectual property. The software industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights. While we have not had any significant claims of this type asserted against us, such claims could be asserted against us in the future. If a lawsuit of this type is filed, it could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We cannot be sure that we would prevail against any such asserted claims. If we did not prevail, we could be prevented from using that intellectual property or required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition to possible claims with respect to our proprietary information, some of our products contain technology developed by and licensed from third parties and we may likewise be susceptible to infringement claims with respect to these third-party technologies. 12 Table of Contents Competition is increasing, which may reduce our profits and limit or reduce our market share. The market for our PLM software solutions is rapidly changing and increasingly competitive. We expect competition to intensify, which could result in price reductions for our products and services, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our primary competition comes from: • larger, more well-known enterprise software providers who have extended, or may seek to extend, the functionality of their products to encompass PLM or who may develop and/or purchase PLM technology; and • other vendors of engineering information management software. In addition, recent and ongoing consolidation within the software industry has given rise to new and stronger competitors. Growth in the computer-aided design solutions industry has slowed. Growth in certain segments of the computer-aided design solutions industry has slowed and, coupled with decreased functional differentiation among flexible engineering tools, may adversely affect our ability to penetrate the market for new customers and capture market share. Increasing competition in the computer-aided design marketplace may reduce our revenues. A large portion of our revenues are currently derived from our computer-aided design solutions and there are an increasing number of competitive design products, some of which emphasize lower price points and ease of use compared to the more robust functionality of our solutions. This increased competition makes attracting new customers more difficult. In addition, some competitive products have reached a level of functionality whereby product differentiation is less likely, in and of itself, to dislodge incumbent design systems, given the training, data conversion and other startup costs associated with system replacement. Although Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire, which focuses on PLM interoperability and ease of use, is designed to address these competitive pressures, increased competition and further market acceptance of competitive products could have a negative effect on pricing and revenue for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and our operating margins. II. Other Considerations We are currently defending a lawsuit seeking substantial damages in which we could be liable. On August 2, 2007, GE Capital Leasing Corporation (GECL) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The lawsuit alleges that GECL was fraudulently induced to provide over $60 million in financing to Toshiba Corporation for purchases of third party products, predominantly PTC products, during the period from 2003 to 2006. GECL claims that PTC participated in the alleged scheme or, alternatively, should have been aware of the scheme and made negligent misrepresentations that enabled the scheme to continue undetected. All of the alleged transactions occurred in Japan. GECL’s complaint claims damages of $47 million and seeks three times that amount plus attorneys’ fees. On October 2, 2008, the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts entered an order granting PTC’s motion to dismiss GECL’s complaint subject to certain conditions, including PTC’s agreement to provide certain discovery to GECL and to assent to personal jurisdiction in Japan. On November 17, 2008, GECL filed a motion to vacate the court’s October 2nd order and to seek to continue the case in the U.S. We are opposing GECL’s motion. If the case is not re-opened in the U.S., we believe it likely that GECL will file a new action in Japan against PTC and/or its Japanese subsidiary. We dispute GECL’s claims and intend to contest them vigorously. As of September 30, 2008 and 2007, revenue of $43.8 million and $40.3 million, respectively, that was previously recorded for the transactions at issue has been deferred and recorded as customer advances in our consolidated balance sheets. That liability will remain recorded until the rights and obligations of the several companies connected with the 13 Table of Contents Toshiba transactions are resolved. The change in customer advances at September 30, 2008 from September 30, 2007 is due to foreign currency translation adjustments related to these balances which are recorded in Japanese Yen. To the extent that matters are resolved in our favor, we will reduce customer advances and record revenue or other income at that time. We have not accrued any other liability for this matter as of September 30, 2008. We have a revolving credit facility and have borrowed funds under that facility. In connection with our acquisition of CoCreate Software GmbH in November 2007, we borrowed approximately $220 million under our revolving credit facility, and have since reduced the balance owed to $88.5 million as of September 30, 2008. We may undertake additional borrowings against the credit facility in the future to support our operations, including additional strategic acquisitions. For any such borrowing we will incur periodic payment obligations. In addition, we are required to comply with the required financial and operating covenants, which could limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet our payment obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in all amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We may not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy our repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds or to borrow additional funds. Our stock price has been volatile, which may make it harder to resell your shares at a time and at a price that is favorable to you. Market prices for securities of software companies are generally volatile and are subject to significant fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. The trading prices and valuations of these stocks, and of ours, may not be predictable. Negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of software companies, or of PTC or the PLM market generally, could depress our stock price regardless of our results. Moreover, current conditions in the stock market have caused trading prices, including that of our common stock, to fall for reasons unrelated to historical company performance and there is no indication of when conditions in the stock market will improve. Also, a large percentage of our common stock is held by institutional investors. Purchases and sales of our common stock by these institutional investors could have a significant impact on the market price of the stock. For more information about those investors, please see our proxy statement with respect to our most recent annual meeting of stockholders and Schedules 13D and 13G filed with the SEC with respect to our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 