Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 13 Item 2. Properties 13 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 13 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 13 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 14 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 15 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 16 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 39 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 40 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 40 Item 9B. Other Information 42 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 43 Item 11. Executive Compensation 43 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 43 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 44 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 44 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 45 Signatures 46 Exhibit Index 48 APPENDIX A Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F-5 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-51 Ex-10.8.2 First Amendment dated November 28, 2007 to Executive Agreement Ex-10.9.2 Form of First Amendment dated November 28, 2007 to Executive Agreement EX-10.13 Compensatory Arrangements with Executive Officers EX-21.1 Subsidiaries of Parametric Technology Corporation EX-23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm EX-31.1 Section 302 Certification of CEO EX-31.2 Section 302 Certification of CFO EX-32 Section 906 Certification of CEO & CFO Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this Annual Report about our anticipated financial results and growth, as well as about the development of our products and markets, are forward-looking statements that are based on our current plans and assumptions. Important information about the factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from these statements is discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” and generally throughout this report. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to a year reflect our fiscal year that ends on September 30. PART I ITEM 1. Business Overview Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC) develops, markets and supports product lifecycle management (PLM) software solutions and related services that help companies improve their processes for developing physical and information products. Our software solutions help customers decrease time to market, improve product quality, increase innovation and reduce product development cost. The PLM market encompasses the mechanical computer-aided design, manufacturing and engineering (CAD, CAM and CAE) market and the collaboration and product data management (PDM) solutions market, as well as many previously isolated markets that address various phases of a product’s lifecycle. These include: • component and supplier management, • visualization and digital mockup, • enterprise application integration, • program and project management, • after-market service and portfolio management, requirements management, customer needs management, manufacturing planning, and technical and marketing publications. Our software solutions include: • a suite of mechanical computer-aided design, engineering calculation, and XML-based document authoring tools (our desktop solutions); and • a range of Internet-based collaboration, content and process management, and publishing technologies (our enterprise solutions). These software solutions enable companies to: • create digital product content as represented by product designs and component-based documents (collectively, “digital products”); • collaborate globally on the development of content with cross-functional teams consisting of members within an organization and from the extended enterprise; • control content and automate processes over the course of a product’s lifecycle; • configure content to match products and services; and • communicate relevant product information across the extended enterprise and to customers through multiple channels using dynamic publications. Our PLM solutions suite addresses significant challenges that companies, and in particular manufacturing companies, face in their product and documentation development processes. These include: • more frequent change, • heterogeneity of systems, • regulatory compliance, • increased communication inside and outside the manufacturing enterprise to support growing globalization and outsourcing of development activities, 1 Table of Contents • increasingly transparent supply chains, and • growing services and maintenance strategies. Our PLM software solutions suite provides our customers with a product development system that permits individuals—regardless of their roles in the commercialization of a product, the computer-based tools they use, or their location geographically or in the supply chain—to participate in the product development process. We have devoted significant resources to developing our enterprise solutions and integrating them with our design software. We continue to integrate our products more tightly and make them easier to deploy. We believe this will create significant added value for our customers. An extension of our PLM solutions, our publishing solutions enable our customers to address significant inefficiencies in cross-functional or complex documentation development processes. Today, most companies use traditional desktop publishing tools that involve a significant amount of manual work to maintain accurate documentation. This causes considerable additional work where multiple authors contribute to the development of content, content changes frequently, multiple organizations within a company have specialized requirements but use similar content, or regulatory compliance requires standardization across all information outputs. Our publishing solutions allow customers to create compound documents from reusable content components, manage the content and processes to enable teams to work together, and configure and publish the information for a variety of uses and audiences in multiple formats. Our solutions are complemented by our experienced services and technical support organizations, as well as resellers and other strategic partners. Our services and technical support organizations provide training, consulting, implementation and support services to customers worldwide. Our resellers supplement our direct sales force to provide greater geographic and small account coverage, primarily for our desktop solutions. Our strategic partners provide complementary product and/or service offerings. Acquisitions A key element of our growth strategy is to acquire businesses that complement our product development system. We have completed a number of strategic acquisitions over the past year. Additionally, we recently announced that we have entered into an agreement to purchase all of the outstanding shares of CoCreate Software GmbH, a provider of PLM and CAD modeling solutions, for approximately $250 million, net of cash acquired and excluding transaction fees. CoCreate is a privately held company based in Sindelfingen, Germany with revenue of approximately $75 million over the last twelve months and 280 employees. Completion of the acquisition is subject to customary conditions. The acquisition of CoCreate is expected to close during the first quarter of 2008. Below is a summary of the strategic transactions we have completed in the past year. Company Technology Date Acquired Logistics Business Systems Limited Integrated logistics support software First Quarter 2008 NC Graphics Ltd. CAM software for machining applications Third Quarter 2007 ITEDO Software GmbH and ITEDO Software LLC Technical illustrations software First Quarter 2007 In the first quarter of 2008, PTC acquired Logistics Business Systems (LBS), a provider of integrated logistics support solutions for the aerospace and defense and civil aviation industries, for approximately $16 million in cash. LBS was a privately held company based in Preston, UK, with approximately $5 million in annual revenue and approximately 45 employees. This acquisition strengthens PTC’s publishing solutions because LBS solutions for provisioning, training and e-learning, and logistics support analysis help customers deliver product support information that is compliant with industry standards S1000D, S2000M and SCORM. The combination of PTC and LBS will facilitate the reuse of both product design and configuration data such as CAD files, bills of material, change management information and logistics information. Our acquisition of NC Graphics enables us to provide a more comprehensive suite of computer-aided manufacturing solutions for design and machining of molds, dies, prototypes, and other high-speed precision machining applications. We now market and sell the NC Graphics technology as Pro/TOOLMAKERtm, offered either stand-alone, or as an optional module of our Pro/ENGINEER® software. NC Graphics had approximately 15 employees, primarily in the UK, and approximately $3 million in annual revenue. Our acquisition of ITEDO Software GmbH and ITEDO Software LLC (together, ITEDO), enables us to provide software solutions for creating and maintaining technical illustrations to customers in multiple manufacturing markets such as automotive, aerospace and defense, and industrial equipment. The ITEDO solutions are now an integral part of our product development system and branded as part of the Arbortext® product family. They help us complete our solution for creating, managing and publishing text and graphical content for technical publications. ITEDO had approximately 30 employees, primarily in Germany, and generated revenue of approximately $5 million for the twelve months ended July 31, 2006. 2 Table of Contents Our Principal Products and Services Our product strategy is to use a common architecture to align our desktop solutions and our enterprise solutions. We capitalize on product synergies to offer integral product development solutions. Our comprehensive product development system enables our customers to improve their product development processes. These processes involve the entire enterprise and extend to supplier, partner and customer participants. Our solutions work together in a cohesive system, reducing complexity for our customers. Our product development system enables our customers to create digital product information, collaborate internally and externally, control content and automate processes, manage product configurations and communicate product information to people and systems across the extended enterprise and design chain. These capabilities are enabled by a system architecture that is built to address the needs of the distributed product development environment. Our product development system architecture is: • integral, sharing a common database schema, common business objects and seamless user interface; • Internet-based, enabling our product development system to deploy across existing Intranet and Internet infrastructures to accommodate a distributed value chain; and • interoperable, integrating with other systems using standard protocols and integration approaches. These same principles apply to our dynamic publishing system, allowing us to deliver the benefits of a system-based approach to all of our customers. We describe our integral portfolio of Desktop Solutions and Enterprise Solutions in more detail below. DESKTOP SOLUTIONS Our Desktop Solutions include our integrated CAD/CAM/CAE software as well as document authoring tools. Our principal Desktop Solutions are described below. Pro/ENGINEER® is a family of three-dimensional product design solution based on a parametric, feature-based solid modeler that enables changes made during the design process to be associatively updated throughout the design. Designers can use Pro/ENGINEER for detailed design (CAD), manufacturing/production (CAM), and simulation/analysis (CAE), as well as for exchanging CAD data with a multitude of sources and in varied standard formats, allowing them to create more innovative, differentiated and functional products quickly and easily. Pro/ENGINEER can improve product quality and reduce time to market by enabling end users to evaluate multiple design alternatives and to share data with bi-directional associativity. Mathcad® is an engineering calculation software solution that combines a computational engine, accessed through conventional math notation, with a full-featured word processor and graphing tools. Mathcad allows our customers to determine their Pro/ENGINEER designs and predict the behavior of a Pro/ENGINEER model, which can then be validated using our Pro/ENGINEER CAE solutions. This approach can help our customers speed time to market by significantly reducing the number of iterations necessary to complete a design. In addition, when combined with our Windchill solutions, the valuable intellectual property captured in Mathcad can be managed and shared securely with others for reuse and regulatory compliance. Arbortext® desktop offerings Arbortext Editortm and Arbortext IsoDraw® are designed to help customers speed time to market, improve documentation accuracy and lower publishing costs: • Arbortext Editor is an XML-based authoring tool used to create dynamic content for multiple output types. Arbortext Editor looks and works like familiar word processing software but is able to create reusable content components, which can be aggregated into dynamic, customized publications. With Arbortext Editor, documents can be created by multiple contributors and the document components are reusable. Consequently, when changes to content are made, those changes will be reflected wherever that content is used. • Arbortext IsoDraw® is a technical illustration solution that enables companies to create both 2D and 3D technical illustrations and animations from scratch or from existing CAD data. Because customers use the solution to create technical illustrations from existing CAD data, they can develop technical publications and engineering designs concurrently, link technical illustrations and animations to engineering designs, and automatically recreate both illustrations and animations when CAD files change through direct integration with Pro/ENGINEER or transfer in multiple supported formats. Illustrations and animations created using Arbortext IsoDraw can be embedded in the Arbortext documents resulting in rich technical publications. ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Our suite of Windchill, Arbortext and ProductView solutions is designed to help companies manage the process of developing products and documentation across an extended enterprise. The products in our enterprise solutions category help customers leverage product development content not only for the engineering processes, but also for use in other processes, such as 3 Table of Contents manufacturing, procurement, technical publications and after market services. With our enterprise solutions, our customers can improve time to market, increase the number of new products they introduce, improve product quality, reduce product cost, reduce development cost, and improve content reuse. Our Enterprise Solutions include: Windchill® is a family of sophisticated, Internet-based content and process management solutions for managing complex data and relationships, processes and publications, including: • Windchill PDMLink®, a product content management solution that is used to control information by facilitating data accessibility and automating and managing the product development process throughout the life of a product. Windchill PDMLink is fluent with workgroup level CAD content management as well as complete enterprise-wide product content management and enables document management, change management and configuration management. Optional modules of Windchill PDMLink include Windchill MPMLinktm, which enables companies to concurrently develop manufacturing process plans as they develop products, Windchill PartsLink® Classification and Reuse, which enables companies to organize internal design libraries to enable part reuse, and Windchill Supplier Management, which enables companies to develop approved manufacturer and vendor lists. • Windchill ProjectLinktm, a collaborative project management solution that enables companies (including their employees, partners, suppliers and customers) to work together on projects through Internet-based compartmentalized workspaces. Windchill ProjectLink also has capabilities for project plan development, milestone and deliverable tracking, activity assignment and management, and on-line discussion forums. • Pro/INTRALINK®, a Windchill-based Pro/ENGINEER workgroup data management solution that provides centralized vaulting and revision control of Pro/ENGINEER models, relationships, and capabilities for improved information security and accuracy. A subset of the capabilities found in Windchill PDMLink, Pro/INTRALINK is used for Pro/ENGINEER-only data management within the engineering department. Arbortext® enterprise offerings enable our customers to manage complex information assets and to streamline their document and publishing processes. Optimized for managing XML documents, authored using Arbortext these solutions support collaboration of geographically dispersed teams, and manage critical processes such as configuration management and release of publications. The solutions consist of a Windchill-based content and configuration management system that assembles Arbortext-authored XML and SGML content components and automatically publishes audience-specific content in both print and electronic forms, with high-quality layout and formatting. ProductViewtm solutions enable enterprise-wide visualization, verification, annotation and automated comparison of a wide variety of product development data formats including MCAD (2D and 3D), ECAD, and documents. This solution provides internal and external participants in the process with lightweight access to product designs and related data without requiring the original authoring tool. SERVICES Maintenance Services We offer maintenance support plans for our software products. Participating customers receive periodic software updates and new releases. Active maintenance plan customers also have direct access to our global technical support team of certified engineers for issue resolution. We also provide self-service support tools that allow our customers access to an extensive amount of technical support information. Consulting and Training Services We offer consulting, implementation and training services through our services organization, as well as through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. These services enable our customers to adopt and use our solutions more effectively. Geographic and Segment Information Financial information about our international and domestic operations, including by segment and principal products, may be found in Note N of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” which information is incorporated herein by reference. 4 Table of Contents Product Development To remain competitive, we must provide our customers with new and innovative software solutions. Accordingly, we continue to invest in research and development, and we look for opportunities to acquire new technologies suited to our customers’ needs. We must also efficiently manage our development resources to ensure the appropriate balance among product lines, based on both product development plans and customer demand. The modular structure of our software code helps us to rapidly develop new design products. This structure enables functional capabilities of existing products to be used in new software applications or modules, thereby reducing the amount of new code required to develop additional products. Much of our Enterprise Solutions technology is Internet-centric, Java-based, object-oriented software and our products depend on these evolving technologies. We also license certain technologies from third parties to augment the functionality of our products. We generally pay these third parties either periodic royalties or fixed fees for the use of their technologies and rely on them for development and other support. We continually review the associated costs, development resource savings, support levels, and, if applicable, experience with the third party to determine whether the use of such technologies is beneficial. Over the past few years, we have focused much of our research and development on integrating our products into a unified product development system. This strategy is supported by changes we have made to both our product planning and product testing processes to ensure that the products work together in a cohesive system across specific customer business processes. We also work closely with our customers to define improvements and enhancements to our products. Customers become involved early in the software design process to help validate feasibility and to provide feedback on functionality. In addition, we maintain software and hardware partner programs designed to provide partners with access to our products and with the mechanisms and environment to facilitate the integration of complementary products with our product lines. By using our software development toolkits, partners can build tightly integrated solutions that satisfy the various requirements of our customers. Our research and development expenses were $162.4 million in 2007, $147.0 million in 2006 and $118.3 million in 2005. Additional information about our research and development expenditures may be found in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Costs and Expenses—Research and Development.” Sales and Marketing We derive most of our revenue from products and services distributed directly by our sales force to our end-user customers. We also offer products through third-party distributors. Our direct sales force focuses on large accounts, while our reseller channel provides a cost-effective means of covering the small- and medium-size business market. Within our direct sales force, we have both strategic accounts and general business accounts units. The strategic accounts unit is further divided into vertical groups, such as aerospace and defense, automotive, consumer products, electronics and high technology, industrial products and life sciences. This vertical orientation is mirrored in our services delivery organization and, increasingly, in the products we deliver to strategic accounts. The general business account unit is organized geographically. In addition, we continue to broaden our indirect distribution channel through alliances with third-party resellers and other strategic partners who provide products and/or services that complement our offerings. Our resellers distribute our desktop solutions, including Pro/ENGINEER, and provide related services throughout North America, Europe and parts of Asia-Pacific; our other strategic partners complement our product development system with ancillary offerings. We also authorize select resellers to distribute our Windchill solutions to the small- and medium-size business market. Competition We compete primarily in the PLM market, including the CAD/CAM/CAE market. We compete with a number of companies that offer solutions that address specific functional areas covered by our solutions, including: Dassault Systemes SA and Siemens AG (as a result of its acquisition of UGS Corp in 2007) for traditional desktop solutions, PDM solutions, manufacturing planning solutions and visualization and digital mock-up solutions; and Oracle Corporation (as a result of its acquisition of Agile Software Corporation in 2007) for PDM solutions. In addition, we compete with SAP AG, which has entered the PLM market and offers a solution that controls product data within the larger framework of its Enterprise Resource Planning solution. We believe our PLM solutions are more specifically targeted toward the product development processes within manufacturing companies and offer broader and deeper functionality in those processes. We compete with design products such as Autodesk, Inc.’s Inventor, Siemens AG’s Solid Edge and Dassault Systemes’ SolidWorks for sales to smaller manufacturing customers. We also compete with EMC Documentum, IBM’s FileNet, OpenText, Adobe Framemaker, and the Microsoft Office suite. 5 Table of Contents Proprietary Rights Our software products and our trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection, as well as restrictions on disclosures and transferability contained in our agreements with other parties. Our proprietary rights are subject to risks and uncertainties described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” below. You should read that discussion, which is incorporated into this section by reference. PTC, the PTC Logo, Parametric Technology Corporation, The Product Development Company, Create Collaborate Control Configure Communicate, Pro/ENGINEER, Wildfire, Pro/INTRALINK, Windchill, Windchill PDMLink, Windchill ProjectLink, Windchill PartsLink, Windchill MPMLink, ProductView, Arbortext, Arbortext IsoDraw, Arbortext IsoView, Mathcad and all product names in the PTC product family are trademarks or registered trademarks of PTC or our subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. Backlog We generally ship our products within 30 days after acceptance of a customer order. A high percentage of our license revenue historically has been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter, and this revenue tends to be concentrated in the later part of that month. Accordingly, orders may exist at the end of a quarter that have not been shipped and not been recognized as revenue. We do not believe that our backlog at any particular point in time is indicative of future sales levels. Employees As of September 30, 2007, we had 4,449 employees, including 1,166 in sales and marketing; 1,271 in customer support, training and consulting; 465 in general and administration; and 1,547 in product development. Of these employees, 1,859 were located in the United States and 2,590 were located outside the United States. Website Access to Reports and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics We make available free of charge on our website at www.ptc.com the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our Annual Report on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our Current Reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings and Section 16 trading reports on SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 also are available on our website. The reference to our website is not intended to incorporate information on our website into this document by reference. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics also is available on our website. Additional information about this code and amendments and waivers thereto can be found below in Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information about our executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report. Other Information PTC was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1985 and is headquartered in Needham, Massachusetts. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following are important factors we have identified that could affect our future results. You should consider them carefully when evaluating forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and otherwise made by us or on our behalf because these factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. 6 Table of Contents I. Operational Considerations Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, making our revenue and operating results difficult to predict. Our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate depending on a number of factors including the following: • a high percentage of our revenue has historically been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter and any failure to complete or process orders at the end of any quarter could cause us to fall short of our revenue targets; • a growing percentage of our revenue comes from our enterprise solutions, which tend to be sold in larger deals that are less predictable; • our operating expenses are based on expected revenues and any failure to achieve our revenue targets could cause us to fall short of our earnings targets as well; • our mix of license and service revenues can vary from quarter to quarter, creating variability in our operating margins; • the outsourcing of our software distribution operations to third-party vendors may reduce our ability to undertake corrective measures or alternative operations in the event shipping systems or processes are interrupted or are hampered due to conditions beyond our or our vendor’s control at the end of any particular quarter; • because a significant portion of our revenue is in foreign currency and a significant portion of our expense structure is located internationally major shifts in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our reported revenue and/or expenses; and • we may incur expenses in connection with our investigation, defense or settlement of legal actions we are defending that would increase our operating expenses for the quarter in which those expenses are incurred. Accordingly, our quarterly results are difficult to predict prior to the end of the quarter and we may be unable to confirm or adjust expectations with respect to our operating results for a particular quarter until that quarter has closed. Any failure to meet our quarterly revenue or earnings targets could adversely impact the market price of our stock. We may be adversely affected by a decline in demand for PLM solutions. We currently derive our license and service revenues predominantly from our integrated PLM software products and services and we expect this to continue into the future. As a result, factors affecting the demand for PLM software solutions or pricing pressures on this single category could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on sales within the manufacturing market. A large amount of our revenues are related to sales to customers in the manufacturing sector. A decline in general economic or business conditions or a decline in spending in this sector could cause customers to reduce or defer spending on information technology improvements, which would cause our revenue and earnings to decrease or to grow more slowly. Furthermore, declines in license sales may adversely affect the size of our installed base and our level of service revenue. Because a substantial portion of our sales are to existing customers and sales to new customers often rely on customer references, our business could be adversely affected if those customers were to become dissatisfied with our products and/or services. Many of our sales are follow-on sales to existing customers who invest in our product development system. If a significant number of customers were to become dissatisfied with our products or services or otherwise elected to adopt either competing solutions or a competitive product development system, we could lose those follow-on sales, which would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, we could lose an important source of references, which could adversely impact our ability to obtain new customers. Finally, a decrease in the size of our installed base could adversely affect both our license revenues and our service revenues. Our cost structure is relatively fixed in the short term, which makes it difficult to reduce our expenses quickly in response to declines in revenue or revenue growth. We make expenditures to support our revenue growth in advance of achieving the expected revenue. Our expenses associated with headcount and facilities can be difficult to reduce quickly due to the nature of those items. If revenue does not grow at the rate we expect or if it declines, our expenses may constitute a larger percentage of our operating budget than we planned, which would adversely affect our profitability. 7 Table of Contents We are relocating some of our business functions to new locations, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of our effort to reduce our operating costs and to increase our presence in strategic regions, we are relocating some of our business functions to new locations, including China. Transitioning those functions to those locations involves terminating employees in the location from which the business function is moved, which will cause us to incur restructuring costs and may cause disruption in those business functions as new personnel are hired and trained. Additionally, because we do not have significant operating experience in some of these countries, it may take us longer to realize the benefits we expect from relocating those functions, if at all. We use third parties, in addition to our direct sales force, for the distribution and implementation of our software solutions, which makes it more difficult to manage customer relationships. We have entered into relationships with groups of geographically dispersed resellers and other strategic partners to promote, sell and/or implement our products, which can reduce our control over the sales process and the delivery of services to our customers. Our ability to distribute and implement our software solutions through third parties will depend on: • our ability to enter into agreements with appropriate third parties that can deliver our products and/or services in appropriate markets; • the third party’s ability to learn, promote and implement our products; • our ability to efficiently manage our sales channels by effectively coordinating and managing joint activities (including sales, marketing, implementation, support and customer service); and • our ability to optimize our sales and services coverage and productivity through, among other means, effective use and management of our internal resources in combination with our resellers and other strategic partners, including, when appropriate, making measured increases to our internal resources and investing in our reseller channel and other strategic partners. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if significant errors or defects are found in our software. Sophisticated software often contains errors, defects or other performance problems when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released as these enhanced versions contain additional programming code and third party sourced functionality that must work across our large product suite. If errors or defects are discovered in our current or future products, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, or provide an adequate response to our customers. We may therefore need to expend significant financial, technical and management resources, or divert some of our development resources, in order to resolve or work around those defects. Errors, defects or other performance problems in our products may also result in the loss of, or delay in, the market acceptance of our products or postponement of product releases or customer deployments. Such difficulties could also cause us to lose customers. Technical problems or the loss of customers could also damage our business reputation and cause us to lose new business opportunities. We may be unable to successfully acquire and integrate additional strategic businesses and any additional businesses we acquire may not achieve the revenue and earnings we anticipated. The success of our long-term strategic plan depends in part on our ability to acquire strategic businesses and/or technologies. If we are unable to identify and complete such acquisitions, we may not achieve our revenue or earnings targets. If the businesses and/or technologies we acquire do not generate the revenue and earnings we expect or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired technology into our products, we may not achieve our revenue or earnings targets. In addition, business combinations involve a number of factors that affect operations and operating results, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • potential loss of key personnel; • entry into unfamiliar markets, which creates new product, sales, services and support requirements; • possible assumption of unanticipated legal or financial liabilities; • possibly incurring debt to finance an acquisition; • unanticipated operating difficulties in connection with the acquired entities, including potential declines in revenue of the acquired entity; 8 Table of Contents • possible impairment of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; and • dilution to our earnings per share if we were to issue stock as consideration. As a result, we may fail to successfully integrate and manage businesses and technologies that we may acquire without incurring substantial expenses, delays or other problems that could negatively impact our results of operations. If our short-term liquidity declines or we are forced to divert attention from other initiatives due to resource constraints in connection with acquisition-related activity, our ability to implement other strategic initiatives or make investments in our operational infrastructure could be impaired. We are dependent on key personnel whose loss could impair our product development or our sales efforts. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel. Our product development efforts are directly affected by the abilities of our technical personnel. Competition for such highly skilled technical personnel in our industry is intense. This competition is even greater in offshore regions where we have shifted certain research and development resources and where concerted efforts to solicit our employees are not uncommon. If we are unable to attract and retain technical personnel with the requisite skills, our product development efforts could be delayed, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our sales efforts rely on having a sufficient number of sales representatives with the skills and knowledge necessary to sell our products, including an ability to educate our customers about our products in order to create and meet demand for our products. If we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel with the requisite expertise, our sales and revenue could be adversely affected. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changing technology and address our customers’ needs, and any failure to do so could reduce demand for our products. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in computer software, hardware and database technology and emerging Internet standards, and to meet evolving customer requirements. Our ability to remain competitive will depend on our ability to: • enhance our current offerings and develop new products and services that keep pace with technological developments through: • internal research and development and quality assurance programs, • acquisition of technology, and • strategic partnerships; • anticipate and meet evolving customer requirements, especially ease-of-use and interoperability; • adequately utilize our development resources; and • license appropriate technology from third parties for inclusion in our products. Also, as is common in the computer software industry, we may from time to time experience delays in our product development efforts. Any such delays could cause us to incorrectly predict the fiscal quarter in which we will realize revenue from the licensing and shipment of the new or enhanced products and give our competitors a greater opportunity to market competing products. We depend on sales from outside the United States that could be adversely affected by changes in international markets. A significant portion of our business comes from outside the United States. Accordingly, our performance could be adversely affected by economic downturns in Europe or the Asia-Pacific region. Other risks associated with international business include: • regulatory practices and tariffs; • staffing and managing international operations, including the difficulties in providing cost-effective, incentive based compensation to attract skilled workers; • longer collection cycles in certain areas; • changes in tax and other laws; and • greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property rights. 9 Table of Contents At times we provide extended payment terms to our customers, which may be a factor in our customers’ purchasing decisions and could adversely affect our revenues if we ceased making these terms available. We have provided extended payment terms to certain customers in connection with transactions we have completed with them. Providing extended payment terms may positively influence our customers’ purchasing decisions but may hurt our cash flows in the short-term. If we reduce the amount of extended payment terms we provide to customers, customers might reduce or defer the amount they spend on our products and services from the amount they might otherwise have spent if extended payment terms were available to them. If this were to occur, our revenue or revenue growth could be lower than in prior periods or than we expect. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. Our software products and our trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection, as well as restrictions on disclosures and transferability contained in our agreements with other parties. Despite these measures, the laws of all relevant jurisdictions may not afford adequate protection to our products and other intellectual property. In addition, we frequently encounter attempts by individuals and companies to pirate our software solutions. If our measures to protect our intellectual property rights fail, others may be able to use those rights, which could reduce our competitiveness and harm our business. Intellectual property infringement claims could be asserted against us, which could be expensive to defend and could result in limitations on our use of the claimed intellectual property. The software industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights. While we have not had any significant claims of this type asserted against us, such claims could be asserted against us in the future. If a lawsuit of this type is filed, it could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We cannot be sure that we would prevail against any such asserted claims. If we did not prevail, we could be prevented from using that intellectual property or required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition to possible claims with respect to our proprietary information, some of our products contain technology developed by and licensed from third parties and we may likewise be susceptible to infringement claims with respect to these third-party technologies. II. Product Related Considerations Competition is increasing, which may reduce our profits and limit or reduce our market share. The market for our PLM software solutions is rapidly changing and increasingly competitive. We expect competition to intensify, which could result in price reductions for our products and services, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Our primary competition comes from: • larger, more well-known enterprise software providers who may seek to extend the functionality of their products to encompass PLM or who may develop and/or purchase PLM technology; and • other vendors of engineering information management software. In addition, analysts expect future consolidation within the software industry, which could give rise to new competitors. To compete effectively in this evolving industry, we must: • successfully develop solutions that are technologically superior to those of our competitors; • effectively demonstrate the value proposition offered by our solutions, including return on investment and value creation; and • overcome the perception, based on our historical roots, that we are solely a mechanical computer-aided design (MCAD) company. Increasing competition in the computer-aided design marketplace may reduce our revenues. A large portion of our revenues are currently derived from our computer-aided design solutions and there are an increasing number of competitive design products, some of which emphasize lower price points and ease of use compared to the more robust functionality of our solutions. This increased competition makes attracting new customers more difficult. In addition, some competitive products have reached a level of functionality whereby product differentiation is less likely, in and of itself, to dislodge incumbent design systems, given the training, data conversion and other startup costs associated with system replacement. Although Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire, which focuses on PLM interoperability and ease of use, is designed to address these competitive 10 Table of Contents pressures, increased competition and further market acceptance of competitive products could have a negative effect on pricing and revenue for our products, which could have a material adverse affect on our results. In addition, even though our design software is capable of performing on a variety of platforms as compared to several of our competitors whose products focus on single platform applications (particularly Windows-based platforms), we may be unable to create a competitive advantage by offering multiple platform applications. Growth in the computer-aided design solutions industry has slowed. Growth in certain segments of the computer-aided design solutions industry has slowed and, coupled with decreased functional differentiation among flexible engineering tools, may adversely affect our ability to penetrate the market for new customers and capture market share. Over the long term, we believe our emphasis on PLM solutions will allow us to differentiate our CAD/CAM/CAE solutions from the competition and to increase sales of our enterprise solutions. However, the strategy may not be successful or may take longer than we expect. Our operating results could be materially adversely affected if these assumptions are incorrect. Our assumptions about the Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) market opportunity may be wrong. We have identified PLM as a market opportunity for us and have devoted significant resources toward capitalizing on that opportunity. We offer a suite of PLM solutions and related services targeted at this market based on our enterprise solutions, together with our desktop solutions. This suite includes software and services that use Internet technologies to enable our customers’ employees, suppliers and customers to collaboratively develop, build, distribute and manage products throughout their entire lifecycle. Because the market for software products that enable companies to collaborate on product information on an enterprise-wide level is emerging, we cannot be sure of the size of this market, whether it will grow, whether companies will elect to use our products or acquire PLM solutions from other sources, or forego PLM initiatives altogether. In addition, companies that have already invested substantial resources in other methods of sharing product information in the design-through-manufacture process may be reluctant to adopt a new approach that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems or methods. We expect that we will continue to need to educate prospective customers about the uses and benefits of our products. Demand for and market acceptance of our products will be affected by the success of those efforts. If we are unable to successfully differentiate our products from those of our competitors, we may be unable to preserve or increase our market share. We rely on the integral nature of our offerings as a competitive differentiator. Some of our competitors have recently announced or taken steps to make their products integrated. If our competitors succeed in their efforts, or convince customers that they will be successful in their efforts, our ability to use the integral nature of our offerings as a competitive differentiator will be diminished, which could adversely affect our ability to retain or increase our market share. Our solutions must meet customer expectations to be successful. The success of our PLM strategy will depend in large part on the ability of our solutions to meet customer expectations, especially with respect to: • return on investment and value creation; • ease and rapidity of installation; • integration of our customers’ and their partners’ existing computer systems and software programs; • ease of use; • full capability, functionality and performance; • ability to support a large, diverse and geographically dispersed user base, including the ability to support global product development programs; and • quality and efficiency of the services performed by us and our partners relating to implementation and configuration. Our opportunity in the small- and medium-size business market when manufacturers migrate from two-dimensional design tools to entry-level three-dimensional design tools depends in large part on our ability to educate consumers on the benefits and ease of use of our products. Likewise with larger strategic customers, we must differentiate our products’ capabilities from those of our competitors, including larger companies with established enterprise-wide relationships with these customers. 11 Table of Contents If our solutions fail to meet customer expectations, customers may stop their adoption of our solutions, resulting in a loss of potential additional sales, and we may be unable to attract new customers for our solutions. III. Other Considerations We are currently defending a lawsuit seeking substantial damages in which we could be liable. On August 2, 2007, GE Capital Leasing Corporation (“GECL”) filed a lawsuit against us. The lawsuit alleges that GECL was fraudulently induced to provide over $60 million in financing on behalf of Toshiba Corporation for purchases of third party products, predominantly PTC products, during the period from 2003 to 2006. GECL claims that PTC participated in the alleged scheme or, alternatively, should have been aware of the scheme and made negligent misrepresentations that enabled the scheme to continue undetected. All of the alleged transactions occurred in Japan. GECL claims damages of $47 million and seeks three times that amount plus attorneys’ fees. In connection with our restatement of revenue associated with the Toshiba transactions described in Note B to our consolidated financial statements, approximately $41 million of revenue was deferred and classified as Customer Advances in our consolidated balance sheets. That liability will remain recorded until the rights and obligations of the several companies connected with the Toshiba transactions are resolved. To the extent that matters are resolved in our favor, we will reduce Customer Advances and record revenue or other income at that time. We have not accrued any other liability for this matter as of September 30, 2007. We dispute GECL’s claims and intend to defend this action vigorously. If GECL were to prevail in the litigation, we could be liable for damages to GECL, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that, until remediated, could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended September 30, 2007, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting because we failed to maintain effective controls over the accounting for income taxes. We are in the process of addressing and remediating this material weakness, but this process will take some time. Accordingly, until we remediate this weakness, this weakness could result in a misstatement of our tax-related accounts that would result in a material misstatement to our interim or annual consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to effectively remediate this material weakness and to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. In addition, we will incur costs and expenses, including the hiring of additional personnel and the retention of professional advisors, in connection with remediating this material weakness. We have a revolving credit facility and have borrowed funds under that facility. We recently announced that we have entered into an agreement to purchase all of the outstanding shares of CoCreate Software GmbH, a provider of PLM and CAD modeling solutions, for approximately $250 million, net of cash acquired and excluding transaction fees. In connection with this acquisition, we borrowed approximately $220 million under our revolving credit facility. In addition, we may undertake additional borrowings against the credit facility in the future to support our operations, including additional strategic acquisitions. For any such borrowing we will incur periodic payment obligations. In addition, we are required to comply with the required financial and operating covenants, which could limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet our payment obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in all amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We may not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy our repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds or to borrow additional funds. Our stock price has been volatile, which may make it harder to resell your shares at a time and at a price that is favorable to you. Market prices for securities of software companies are generally volatile and are subject to significant fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. The trading prices and valuations of these stocks, and of ours, may not be predictable. Negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of software companies, or of PTC or the PLM market generally, could depress our stock price regardless of our results. Also, traditionally, a large percentage of our common stock has been held by institutional investors. Purchases and sales of our common stock by these institutional investors could have a significant impact on the market price of the stock. For more 12 Table of Contents information about those investors, please see our proxy statement with respect to our most recent annual meeting of stockholders and Schedules 13D and 13G filed with the SEC with respect to our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 