Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this report should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this report. The statements are representative only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in our forward-looking statements. We face risks that are inherent in the businesses and the markets in which we operate. The following discussion sets forth certain risks and uncertainties that we believe could cause actual future results to differ materially from expected results. In addition to the factors discussed below, other factors that might cause our future financial performance to vary from that described in our forward-looking statements include: (i) changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations; (ii) cost and stability of energy sources; (iii) management's ability to predict accurately the adequacy of the Company's present liquidity to meet future financial requirements; (iv) continued solvency of any third parties on leases the Company has guaranteed; (v) management's ability to predict the required contributions to the pension plans of the Company; (vi) the Company's requirement to impair recorded goodwill or other long-lived assets; (vii) changes in labor and employee benefit costs, such as increased health care and other insurance costs; (viii) ability to recruit, train and retain effective employees and management; (ix) the extent and speed of successful execution of strategic initiatives; (x) volatility of financial and credit markets which would affect access to capital for the Company; (xi) the Company's ability to pass along product cost increases through increased sales prices and, (xii) unexpected outcomes of any legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business of the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and also could cause actual results to differ materially from those included, contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements made in this report, and the reader should not consider any of the above list of factors and the following discussion to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risk Factors Related to the Merger Agreement We may not be able to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete our merger with a subsidiary of Kroger in the anticipated timeframe. The consummation of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions. A number of the conditions are not within our control, and may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the completion of the transaction. These conditions include, among other things, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. It also is possible that an event, change, circumstance, occurrence, effect or state of facts that could result in a material adverse effect to the Company may occur, which may give Kroger the ability to avoid completing the merger. We cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of the required closing conditions will be satisfied or if another uncertainty may arise. If the merger does not receive, or timely receive, the required regulatory approvals and clearances, or if another event occurs delaying or preventing the merger, such delay or failure to complete the merger may cause uncertainty or other negative consequences that may materially and adversely affect our sales, financial performance and operating results, and the price per share for our common stock and perceived acquisition value. While the merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could disrupt our business. Whether or not the pending merger is completed, the pending merger may disrupt the current plans and operations of the Company, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. The pendency of the merger may also divert management's attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations and our employees and other key personnel may have uncertainties about the effect of the pending merger and the uncertainties may impact our ability to retain, recruit 2 and hire key personnel while the merger is pending or if it fails to close. We may incur unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the merger. Furthermore, we cannot predict how our suppliers, customers and other business partners will view or react to the pending merger and some may be hesitant to do business with us in light of uncertainties about our ability to perform due to the pending merger. If we are unable to reassure our customers, suppliers and other business partners to continue transacting business with us, our financial results may be adversely affected. The pursuit of the merger and preparations for integration have placed and will continue to place a significant burden on many employees and internal resources. If, despite our efforts, key personnel depart because of these uncertainties and burdens, or because they do not wish to remain with a combined company, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. In addition, whether or not the merger is completed, while it is pending we will continue to incur costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the proposed merger, which may materially and adversely affect our business results and financial condition. In addition, the Merger Agreement generally requires the Company to operate its business in the ordinary course of business pending consummation of the merger and it also restricts the Company from taking certain actions with respect to its business and financial affairs without Kroger's consent, including without limitation a restriction on our ability to pay dividends other than regular quarterly cash dividends in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, not exceeding $0.15 per share, and these restrictions could be in place for an extended period of time if the consummation of the merger is delayed. For these and other reasons, the pendency of the merger could adversely affect our business and financial results. In the event that the pending merger is not completed, the trading price of the Company's common stock and the Company's future business and financial results may be negatively affected. The conditions to the completion of the merger may not be satisfied as noted above. If the merger is not completed for any reason, we would still remain liable for significant transaction costs and the focus of our management would have been diverted from seeking other potential strategic opportunities, in each case without realizing any benefits of a completed merger. For these and other reasons, a failed merger could adversely affect our business and financial results. Furthermore, if we do not complete the merger, the price of our common stock may decline significantly from the current market price which reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed with shareholders receiving $49.38 for each share of Company common stock held. Certain costs associated with the merger have already been incurred or may be payable even if the merger is not completed. Further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. Finally, any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the merger and from intensifying competition from our competitors, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees or recruiting and retention efforts, could continue or accelerate in the event of a failed transaction. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, we may, under certain circumstances, be obligated to pay a termination fee or a break-up fee to Kroger. These costs could require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for general corporate purposes. If the merger is not completed, in certain circumstances, we would still be liable for significant transaction costs incurred by us and could also be required to pay a termination fee of $75 million. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, the termination fee we may be required to pay, if any, under the Merger Agreement may require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for general corporate purposes. For these and other reasons, a failed merger could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, which in turn would materially and adversely affect our business or financial condition, the price per share of our common stock or our perceived acquisition value. Litigation against the Company and our directors could result in an injunction preventing completion of the merger, and significant litigation costs that could adversely affect our financial condition. One of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no order, injunction or decree issued by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction be in effect or statute, rule, regulation, order, injunction or decree be enacted, entered or enforced by any governmental entity that prohibits or makes illegal the consummation of the merger or any other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Consequently, if any person or entity were to secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting the ability to complete the merger, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all. If completion of the merger is prevented or delayed, it could result in substantial costs to us. 3 Risks Relating to the Industry and our Business The Supermarket Industry is Highly Competitive. The supermarket industry is characterized by narrow profit margins and competes on value, variety, location and service. The Company faces competitive pressure in all of its markets from existing competitors and from the threatened entry by one or more major new competitors. The number and type of competitors we face vary by location and include: traditional grocery retailers (both national and regional), discount retailers such as "supercenters" and "club and warehouse stores," specialty supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, convenience stores and restaurants. The Company also competes with pharmacies, florists, book stores, local coffee shops and retailers offering their products via the internet. Aggressive supercenter expansion, increasing fragmentation of retail formats, entry of non-traditional competitors and market consolidation have further contributed to an increasingly competitive marketplace. Additionally, highly competitive markets and economic uncertainty have made it difficult generally for grocery store operators to continue to achieve comparable store sales gains. Because sales growth has been difficult to attain, the Company's competitors have attempted to maintain market share through increased levels of promotional activities and discount pricing, creating a more difficult environment in which to achieve consistent sales gains. Some of the Company's competitors have greater financial resources and could use these resources to take measures which could adversely affect the Company's competitive position. Accordingly, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by competitive factors, including product mix and pricing changes which may be made in response to competition from existing or new competitors. The Company's Expansion Plans Are Subject to Risk. The Company has spent, and intends to continue to spend, significant capital and management resources on the development and implementation of expansion and renovation plans. The Company's new store opening program can vary depending on the economic conditions of the markets, including the Washington, D.C. metro market area which incorporates northern Virginia, the District of Columbia, southern Maryland and coastal Delaware. The successful implementation of the Company's renovation and expansion plans are subject to several factors including: the availability of new, suitable locations on reasonable commercial terms, or at all; the success of new stores, including those in less developed markets; management's ability to manage expansion, including the effect on sales at existing stores when a new store is opened nearby; the ability to secure any necessary financing; change in regional and national economic conditions; and increasing competition or changes in the competitive environment in the Company's markets. The Company's new stores may initially operate at a loss, depending on factors such as prevailing competition and market position in the surrounding communities and the level of sales and profit margins in existing stores may not be duplicated in new stores. Pursuing a strategy of growth, renovation and expansion in light of current highly competitive industry conditions could lead to a near-term decline in earnings as a result of opening and operating a substantial number of new stores, particularly with respect to stores in markets where the Company does not have a significant presence. If the Company's expansion and renovation plans are unsuccessful, it could adversely affect the Company's cash flow, business and financial condition due to the significant amount of capital and management resources invested. Food Safety Issues Could Result in a Loss of Consumer Confidence and Product Liability Claims. The Company could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the food supply chain. These concerns could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from the Company, or to seek alternative sources of supply for their food needs, even if the basis for the concern is not valid and/or is outside of the Company's control. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, could discourage consumers from buying our products and any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food items sold by the Company, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on the Company's operations. The Company's Geographic Concentration May Expose it to Regional or Localized Downturns. The Company operates primarily in the southeastern and mid-Atlantic United States and the District of Columbia, with a strong concentration in North Carolina, Virginia and South Carolina. As a result, the Company's business is more susceptible to regional factors than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors. These factors include, among others, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population. Although these regions have experienced economic and demographic growth in the past, a significant economic downturn in the region could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. 4 The Ownership and Development of Real Estate May Subject the Company to Environmental Liability. Under applicable environmental laws, as an owner or developer of real estate, the Company may be responsible for remediation of environmental conditions that may be discovered and may be subject to associated liabilities (including liabilities resulting from lawsuits brought by private litigants) relating to the Company's property, whether the properties are leased or owned, and whether such environmental conditions, if in existence, were created by the Company or by a prior owner or tenant. The discovery of contamination from hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly remediate such contaminated property, may adversely affect the Company's ability to sell or rent real property or to borrow using real property as collateral. Liabilities or costs resulting from noncompliance with current or future applicable environmental laws or other claims relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company's Information Technology Systems Are Subject to Risk. The Company's business is increasingly dependent on information technology systems that are complex and vital to continuing operations. If the Company were to experience difficulties maintaining existing systems or implementing new systems, it could incur significant losses due to disruptions in its operations. Additionally, these systems contain valuable proprietary and financial data, as well as debit and credit card cardholder data, and a breach, including cyber security breaches, could have an adverse effect on the Company. Narrow Profit Margins may Adversely Affect the Company's Business. Profit margins in the supermarket industry are very narrow. In order to increase or maintain the Company's profit margins, strategies are used to reduce costs, such as productivity improvements, shrink reduction, distribution efficiencies, energy efficiency programs, fuel hedging and other similar strategies. Changes in product mix also may negatively affect certain financial measures. If the Company is unable to achieve forecasted cost reductions there may be an adverse effect on the Company's business. Our Self-Insurance Accruals are Subject to Variability and Unpredictable External Factors. As discussed in more detail below in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Self-insurance accruals for Workers' Compensation, Healthcare and General Liability," the Company is primarily self-insured for most U.S. workers' compensation claims, healthcare claims and general liability and automotive liability losses. Accordingly, the Company determines the estimated liability required for claims in each accounting period, which requires that management determine estimates of the costs of claims incurred and accrue for such expenses in the period in which the claims are incurred. The liabilities that have been recorded for these claims represent our best estimate of the ultimate obligations for reported claims plus those incurred but not reported. Changes in legal trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, and changes in discount rates could all affect ultimate settlements of claims or the assumptions underlying our liability estimates, which could cause a material change for our self-insurance liability obligations and could adversely impact earnings. The Company may Incur Increased Pension Expenses. The Company maintains retirement benefit plans for substantially all full-time employees and a supplemental retirement benefit plan for certain selected officers of the Company and its subsidiaries, including a defined contribution retirement plan, a qualified pension plan which is a funded defined benefit plan and a non-qualified supplemental pension plan for executives, which is an unfunded defined benefit plan. The Company has frozen participation and benefit accruals under the Company-sponsored defined benefit plan effective September 30, 2005 for all participants, with certain transition benefits provided to those participants who had achieved specified age and service levels on December 31, 2005; however, at the end of fiscal 2013, the Company's pension plans had projected benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to our pension plans will depend on government regulation, returns on plan assets and actuarial assumptions regarding our future funding obligations. For more information, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 hereof. 5 Adverse Economic Conditions may Negatively Impact the Company's Operating Results. The increase in unemployment and loss of consumer confidence can alter the consumers' buying habits. In addition, consumers may decrease their purchases of more discretionary items and increase their purchase of lower cost food products. Adverse economic conditions in the financial markets, including the availability of financing, could also adversely affect the Company's operating results by increasing costs related to obtaining financing at acceptable rates. These conditions could also impact the Company's suppliers, who may be unable to fulfill the Company's outstanding orders or could change credit terms that would negatively affect the Company's liquidity. All of these factors could adversely impact the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 