ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following are important factors we have identified that could affect our future results. You should consider them carefully when evaluating forward-looking statements made by us, including those contained in this Annual Report, because these factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. I. Operational Considerations Weakness in the United States and international economies may continue to adversely affect our business. We experienced a challenging economic environment in 2009 in which customers in all geographic regions in which we operate reduced or deferred purchases of our products and services. Our license revenue declined 36% from 2008 and our services and maintenance businesses declined in the second half of 2009 as well. Although there are some indications that the economy in the U.S. has begun to recover, the U.S. economy may not recover or may deteriorate further, which could continue to adversely affect our operations and results in 2010. The economies of Europe and the Asia Pacific region do not appear to have begun to recover and may remain distressed well into 2010 or longer, which will continue to harm our operations and results in 2010. Further, the steep declines in license revenue in 2009 are likely to adversely impact our maintenance and services revenues in 2010, even if the economy recovers. Competition is intensifying, which may reduce our profits and limit or reduce our market share. The market for product development solutions is rapidly changing and is increasingly competitive. We expect competition to intensify, which could result in price reductions for our products and services, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our primary competition comes from: • larger, more well-known enterprise software providers who have extended, or may seek to extend, the functionality of their products to encompass PLM or who may develop and/or purchase PLM technology; and • other vendors of engineering information management software. The CAx market is characterized by intense competition for customers. However, the nature of this market (which is relatively mature and whose growth has slowed) and the number and nature of the competitive products (which have increasingly similar functionality) make it difficult to gain new customers. Moreover, decreasing product differentiation and the training, data conversion and other startup costs associated with system replacement make it more difficult to dislodge incumbent design systems. In addition, recent consolidation within the software industry has given rise to new and stronger competitors. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changing technology and address our customers’ needs and expectations, and any failure to do so could reduce demand for our products. Our ability to remain competitive will depend on our ability to enhance our current offerings and develop new products and services that keep pace with technological developments and meet evolving customer requirements through: • internal research and development and quality assurance programs; • acquisition or license of technology; and • strategic partnerships. 6 Table of Contents In addition, our solutions must meet customer expectations to be successful, especially with respect to: • return on investment and value creation; • ease and speed of installation; • ease-of-use and interoperability; • full capability, functionality and performance; • ability to support a large, diverse and geographically dispersed user base, including the ability to support global product development programs; and • quality and efficiency of the services performed by us and our partners relating to implementation and configuration. If our solutions fail to meet customer expectations, customers may discontinue adoption of our solutions, resulting in a loss of potential additional sales, and we may be unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Businesses we acquire may not generate the revenue and earnings we anticipated. We have acquired, and intend to continue to acquire, new businesses and technologies. If we fail to successfully integrate and manage the businesses and technologies we acquire, our operating results may be adversely affected. Moreover, business combinations also involve a number of risks and uncertainties that can adversely affect our operations and operating results, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • loss of key personnel; • unanticipated operating difficulties in connection with the acquired entities, including potential declines in revenue of the acquired entity; • entry into unfamiliar markets, which creates new product, sales, services and support requirements; • assumption of unanticipated legal or financial liabilities; • incurring debt to finance an acquisition; • impairment of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; and • dilution to our earnings per share if we were to issue stock as consideration. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if significant errors or defects are found in our software. Sophisticated software often contains errors, defects or other performance problems when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released, as these enhanced versions contain additional programming code and third party sourced functionality that must work across our large product suite. If errors or defects are discovered in our current or future products, we may need to expend significant financial, technical and management resources, or divert some of our development resources, in order to resolve or work around those defects, and we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or provide an adequate response to our customers. Errors, defects or other performance problems in our products could cause us to delay product releases or customer deployments. Any such delays could cause delays in our ability to realize revenue from the licensing and shipment of new or enhanced products and give our competitors a greater opportunity to market competing 7 Table of Contents products. Such difficulties could also cause us to lose customers. Technical problems or the loss of customers could also damage our business reputation and cause us to lose new business opportunities. We are dependent on key personnel whose loss could impair our operations, our product development or our sales efforts. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, technical and sales personnel. We require highly skilled technical personnel to develop our products. Competition for such personnel in our industry is intense. If we are unable to attract and retain technical personnel with the requisite skills, our product development efforts could be delayed, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our sales efforts rely on having a sufficient number of sales representatives with the skills and knowledge necessary to sell our products, including an ability to educate our customers about our products in order to create and meet demand for our products. If we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel with the requisite expertise, our revenue could be adversely affected. At times we provide extended payment terms to our customers, which may be a factor in our customers’ purchasing decisions, and our revenues could be adversely affected if we ceased making these terms available. We have provided extended payment terms to certain customers in connection with transactions we have completed with them. Providing extended payment terms may positively influence our customers’ purchasing decisions but may reduce our cash flows in the short-term. If we reduce the amount of extended payment terms we provide to customers, customers might reduce or defer the amount they spend on our products and services from the amount they might otherwise have spent if extended payment terms were available to them. If this were to occur, our revenue or revenue growth could be lower than in prior periods and/or lower than we expect. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. Our software products and trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection, as well as restrictions on disclosures and transferability contained in our agreements with other parties. Despite these measures, the laws of all relevant jurisdictions may not afford adequate protection to our products and other intellectual property. In addition, we frequently encounter attempts by individuals and companies to pirate our software solutions. If our measures to protect our intellectual property rights fail, others may be able to use those rights, which could reduce our competitiveness and revenues. Intellectual property infringement claims could be asserted against us, which could be expensive to defend and could result in limitations on our use of the claimed intellectual property. The software industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights. While we have not had any significant claims of this type asserted against us, such claims could be asserted against us in the future. If a lawsuit of this type is filed, it could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We cannot be sure that we would prevail against any such asserted claims. If we did not prevail, we could be prevented from using that intellectual property or required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition to possible claims with respect to our proprietary products, some of our products contain technology developed by and licensed from third parties and we may likewise be susceptible to infringement claims with respect to these third-party technologies. 8 Table of Contents Our sales and operations are globally dispersed, which exposes us to additional operating and compliance risks. We sell and deliver software and services, and maintain support operations, in a large number of countries, whose laws and practices differ from one another. North America accounted for 37%, Europe for 40% and Asia-Pacific for 23% of our revenue in 2009. Managing these geographically dispersed operations requires significant attention and resources to ensure compliance with laws. Accordingly, while we maintain a comprehensive compliance program, we cannot guarantee that an employee, agent or business partner will not act in violation of our policies or U.S. or other applicable laws. Such violations can lead to civil and/or criminal prosecutions, substantial fines and the revocation of our rights to continue certain operations and also cause both business and reputation loss. Our cost structure is relatively fixed in the short term, which makes it difficult to reduce our expenses quickly in response to declines in revenue or revenue growth. We make expenditures to support our revenue growth in advance of achieving the expected revenue. Our expenses associated with headcount and facilities can be difficult to reduce quickly due to the nature of those items. If revenue does not grow as we expect or if it declines, our expenses may constitute a larger percentage of our operating budget than we planned, which would adversely affect our profitability. II. Other Considerations We are currently defending a lawsuit seeking substantial damages in which we could be liable. On August 2, 2007, GE Capital Leasing Corporation (now GE Financial Services Corporation, “GEFS”) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The lawsuit alleges that GEFS was fraudulently induced to provide over $60 million in financing to Toshiba Corporation for purchases of third party products, predominantly PTC products, during the period from 2003 to 2006. GEFS claims that PTC participated in the alleged scheme or, alternatively, should have been aware of the scheme and made negligent misrepresentations that enabled the scheme to continue undetected. GEFS’s complaint claims damages of $47 million and seeks three times that amount plus attorneys’ fees. On October 2, 2008, the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts entered an order granting PTC’s motion to dismiss GEFS’s complaint subject to certain conditions, including PTC’s agreement to provide certain discovery to GEFS and to assent to personal jurisdiction in Japan. On November 17, 2008, GEFS filed a motion to vacate the court’s October 2nd order and to seek to continue the case in the U.S. We have opposed GEFS’s motion. On January 7, 2009, GEFS also filed an action in Tokyo District Court in Japan against PTC’s Japanese subsidiary, PTC Japan K.K. The lawsuit arises from the same underlying transactions as the Massachusetts lawsuit and seeks damages of 5,808,384,889 Yen (approximately $65 million as of September 30, 2009) plus interest of 5% per year on such amount since April 27, 2007 and costs of the lawsuit. Subsequently, the Tokyo District Court consolidated this newly filed action with GEFS’s pending action against Toshiba and other parties to the transactions, which was filed in the Tokyo District Court in August 2007. In the Japanese action, GEFS alleges that employees of PTC Japan committed wrongful acts in cooperation with employees of other companies involved in the transactions, including an employee of Toshiba who was criminally convicted for obtaining fraudulent loans. GEFS alleges that the wrongful acts committed by PTC Japan employees caused GEFS’s damages and that PTC Japan, as an employer, is jointly and severally liable for GEFS’s losses along with the other defendants. We dispute GEFS’s claims and are contesting them vigorously. As of September 30, 2009 and 2008, revenue of 4,658,162,417 Yen ($51.9 million and $43.8 million, respectively) that was previously recorded for the transactions at issue has been deferred and recorded as customer advances in our consolidated balance sheets. That liability will remain recorded until the rights and obligations of the several companies connected with the Toshiba transactions are resolved. The change in customer advances at September 30, 2009 from September 30, 9 Table of Contents 2008 is due to foreign currency translation adjustments. We have not accrued any other liability for this matter as of September 30, 2009 as an amount potentially payable, if any, is not estimable. To the extent that matters are resolved in an amount less than the recorded customer advances liability, we will reduce customer advances and record the portion retained to revenue or other income at that time. To the extent that matters are resolved in an amount in excess of the recorded customer advances liability, we would record expense for the amount due in excess of our recorded liability. We have a revolving credit facility and may incur additional debt under that facility. Under the terms of our credit facility, we may borrow funds up to $230 million, repay the same in whole or in part and re-borrow at any time through February 20, 2011, when all amounts outstanding will be due and payable in full. We currently have $58 million outstanding under this facility resulting from our acquisition of CoCreate Software GmbH in November 2007. We may borrow additional amounts under the credit facility in the future to support our operations, including additional strategic acquisitions. In addition, we are required to comply with the required financial and operating covenants, which limits our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet our payment obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in all amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We may not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy our repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds or to borrow additional funds. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes it difficult to predict our revenue and operating results and could adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly operating results historically have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including: • a high percentage of our revenue historically has been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter and any failure to receive, complete or process orders at the end of any quarter could cause us to fall short of our revenue targets; • a growing percentage of our revenue comes from our PLM solutions, which tend to be sold in larger deals with longer lead times that are less predictable; • our operating expenses are based on expected revenues and any failure to achieve our revenue targets could cause us to fall short of our earnings targets as well; • our mix of license and service revenues can vary from quarter to quarter, creating variability in our operating margins; • because a significant portion of our revenue is in foreign currency and a significant portion of our expense structure is located internationally, shifts in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenue and/or expenses; and • we may incur significant expenses in a quarter in connection with corporate development initiatives, restructuring efforts or our investigation, defense or settlement of legal actions that would increase our operating expenses for the quarter in which those expenses are incurred. Accordingly, our quarterly results are difficult to predict prior to the end of the quarter and we may be unable to confirm or adjust expectations with respect to our operating results for a particular quarter until that quarter has closed. Any failure to meet our quarterly revenue or earnings targets could adversely impact the market price of our stock. 10 Table of Contents Our stock price has been volatile, which may make it harder to resell your shares at a time and at a price that is favorable to you. Market prices for securities of software companies are generally volatile and are subject to significant fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. The trading prices and valuations of these stocks, and of ours, may not be predictable. Negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of software companies, or of PTC or the markets we serve, could depress our stock price regardless of our results. Also, a large percentage of our common stock is held by institutional investors. Purchases and sales of our common stock by these institutional investors could have a significant impact on the market price of the stock. For more information about those investors, please see our proxy statement with respect to our most recent annual meeting of stockholders and Schedules 13D and 13G filed with the SEC with respect to our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 