ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before investing in our common stock. If any of the events anticipated by the risks described below occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, causing you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating To Our Business We rely on cooperative suppliers and any adverse changes in these relationships may adversely affect us. We have developed a network of aquaculture farmers in Hainan Province for the supply of tilapia and shrimp by entering into cooperative supply agreements. Pursuant to the cooperative supply agreements, we are assured the necessary supply of aquatic products that meet our quality standards. The continuance and smooth operations of these cooperative networks are essential in controlling our costs, meeting quality standards and the timely fulfillment of our customer orders. Any adverse change to our cooperative network, including any early termination or non-renewal of any supply agreement or any failure of suppliers to fulfill their obligations under the supply agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our business model, operations and competitiveness. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including industry and market conditions, our ability to successfully implement our new branding and marketing initiative and expansion of our production capabilities. We anticipate that we may need to raise additional funds in order to grow our business and implement our business strategy. We anticipate that any such additional funds would be raised through equity or debt financings. In addition, we may enter into a revolving credit facility or a term loan facility with one or more syndicates of lenders. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Even if we are able to raise capital through equity or debt financings, as to which there can be no assurance, the interest of existing shareholders in our company may be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock or may otherwise materially and adversely effect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, we may not be able to fully implement our business strategy, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In addition, we have and will continue to raise additional capital through private placements or registered offerings, in which broker-dealers will be engaged. The activities of such broker-dealers are highly regulated and we cannot assure that the activities of such broker-dealers will not violate relevant regulations and generate liabilities despite our expectation otherwise. 24 Table of Contents We depend on the availability of additional human resources for future growth. We are currently experiencing a period of significant growth in our sales volume. We believe that continued expansion is essential for us to remain competitive and to capitalize on the growth potential of our business. Such expansion may place a significant strain on our management and operations and financial resources. As our operations continue to grow, we will have to continually improve our management, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and other resources infrastructure, and expand our workforce. There can be no assurance that our existing or future management, operating and financial systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations, or that we will be able to recruit, retain and motivate our personnel. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish, develop or maintain the business relationships beneficial to our operations, or to do so or to implement any of the above activities in a timely manner. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations and financial condition. We depend on our key management personnel, and the loss of any of their services could materially adversely affect us. Our operations are dependent upon the experience and expertise of a small number of key management personnel, which includes Lillian Wang Li, our Chairman of the Board, Norbert Sporns, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and Harry Wang Hua, our Chief Operating Officer. Lillian Wang Li and Harry Wang Hua are brother and sister, and Ms. Wang Li is married to Norbert Sporns. Although we have begun the process of obtaining the life insurance on Ms. Wang Li and Mr. Sporns, of which we are the beneficiary, the loss of the services of any of them for any reason would have a material adverse effect on our business, and the results of our operations and financial condition, or could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy. A few of our customers account for a significant portion of our business. We have derived, and over the near term we expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our sales from a limited number of customers. For example, our five largest customers accounted for a total of 39.2% of our consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2007, and they are all related to the aquaculture product segment. At December 31, 2007, approximately 35.44% of our trade receivables were from transactions with these five largest customers. The loss of any of these customers or non-payment of outstanding amounts due to the company could materially and adversely affect our business in terms of results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We may be unable to continue to take advantage of the seasonal pricing fluctuation in sales of our products, and we may be adversely affected by the seasonal fluctuation in the prices we earn for our products. We have experienced seasonal fluctuation in the prices we earn for our products, generally in the range of 15 to 20%. Pricing fluctuation occurs during the winter season when fish farms in the northern part of the PRC suspend production due to cold weather conditions. These weather related disruptions in supply permit us to increase the sales prices of our tilapia products. However, there can be no assurance that such premium pricing, benefiting our profitability, can be maintained in the future. Other factors, such as an increase in the cost of feed, might adversely impact on the cost of fish and lessen our margins and profitability. 25 Table of Contents Any adverse changes in the supply of our tilapia and other raw materials, including contamination or disease or increased costs of raw materials, may adversely affect our operations or reduce our margins or profits. We are dependent on the availability of raw materials from Hainan Province and the oceans in that region. The supply of these raw materials can be adversely affected by any material change in the climatic or environmental conditions in and around Hainan Province. In addition, if there is contamination resulting from disease, pollution or other foreign substances, our supply of raw materials could be jeopardized or disrupted. The shortage or lack of raw materials and any consequential change in their cost would, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the cost on our operations and margins and our ability to provide products to our customers. We may be adversely affected by the fluctuation in raw material prices and selling prices of our products. Neither our products nor the raw materials we use have experienced any significant price fluctuations in the past, but there is no assurance that they will not be subject to future price fluctuations or pricing control. The products and raw materials we use may experience price volatility caused by events such as market fluctuations or changes in governmental programs. The market price of these raw materials may also experience significant upward adjustment, if, for instance, there is a material under-supply or over-demand in the market. These price changes may ultimately result in increases in the selling prices of our products, and may, in turn, adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and operating profit. We could be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural disasters in Hainan Province. From time to time, Hainan Province experiences typhoons, particularly from June through September of any given year. Natural disasters could impede operations, damage infrastructure necessary to our operations or adversely affect the logistical services to and from Hainan Province. The occurrence of natural disasters in Hainan Province could adversely affect our business, the results of our operations, prospects and financial condition, even though we currently have insurance against damages caused by natural disasters, including typhoons, accidents or similar events. Intense competition from existing and new entities may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In general, the aquaculture industry is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with various companies, many of which are developing or can be expected to develop products similar to ours. For example, 8th Sea—The Organic Seafood Company currently produces and processes tilapia fillets in Brazil’s Parana state. Many of our competitors are more established than we are and have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we presently possess. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We intend to create greater awareness for our brand 26 Table of Contents name so that we can successfully compete with our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or successfully with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. Our operating subsidiary must comply with environmental protection laws that could adversely affect our profitability. We are required to comply with the environmental protection laws and regulations promulgated by the national and local governments of the PRC. Some of these regulations govern the level of fees payable to government entities providing environmental protection services and the prescribed standards relating to the discharge of effluent, or liquid waste. Yearly inspections of waste treatment systems require the payment of a license fee which could become a penalty fee if standards are not maintained. Currently, our plant treats all of its effluent completely to level one, which is consistent with releasing potable water back to the environment, and there is currently no charge being levied. Although our production technologies allow us to efficiently control the level of pollution resulting from our production process, and notwithstanding the fact that we have received evidence of compliance with environmental protection requirements from government authorities, due to the nature of our business, effluent wastes are unavoidably generated in the aquaculture production processes. If we fail to comply with any of these environmental laws and regulations in the PRC, depending on the types and seriousness of the violation, we may be subject to, among other things, warning from relevant authorities, imposition of fines, specific performance and/or criminal liability, forfeiture of profits made, being ordered to close down our business operations and suspension of relevant permits. Our operations, revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations in the countries where we do business. The governments of countries into which we sell our products, including the United States, Canada and the European Union, from time to time, consider regulatory proposals relating to raw materials, food safety and markets, and environmental regulations, which, if adopted, could lead to disruptions in distribution of our products and increase our operational costs, which, in turn, could affect our profitability. To the extent that we increase our product prices as a result of such changes, our sales volume and revenues may be adversely affected. Furthermore, these governments may change import regulations or impose additional taxes or duties on certain Chinese imports from time to time. For example, in 2004, the United States government imposed heavy tariffs of more than 100 percent on certain Chinese shrimp exporters. Similar regulations and fees or new regulatory developments may have a material adverse impact on our operations, revenue and profitability. Our business could be adversely affected by the recent negative public reports on seafood imported from China. In June 2007, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued an alert report on the sale of five types of farm-raised seafood from China in the United States because of unapproved chemical residues. The five types of farm-raised seafood are shrimp, catfish, eel, bass and dace. As a result, the seafood can be sold in the United States providing importers provide independent testing that shows the seafood does not contain the unapproved residues. Although tilapia is not included in the list and we believe our main seafood product, which is tilapia, does not contain any of the unapproved residues, it is possible that our business may be adversely impacted as a result of the recent negative public reports on seafood imported from China. 27 Table of Contents There could be changes in the policies of the PRC government that may adversely affect our business. The aquaculture industry in the PRC is subject to policies implemented by the PRC government. The PRC government may, for instance, impose control over aspects of our business such as distribution of raw materials, product pricing and sales. On the other hand, the PRC government may also make available subsidies or preferential treatment, which could be in the form of tax benefits or favorable financing arrangements. If the raw materials used by us or our products become subject to any form of government control, then depending on the nature and extent of the control and our ability to make corresponding adjustments, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Separately, our business and operating results also could be adversely affected by changes in policies of the Chinese government such as: changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof; confiscatory taxation; restrictions on currency conversion, imports on sources of supplies; or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies for approximately two decades to liberalize the economy and introduce free market aspects, there is no assurance that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting China’s political, economic and social life. Certain political and economic considerations relating to PRC could adversely affect our company. The PRC is passing from a planned economy to a market economy. The Chinese government has confirmed that economic development will follow a model of market economy under socialism. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the PRC economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans adopted by the government that set down national economic development goals. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms are unprecedented or experimental for the PRC government, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, which we may not be able to foresee, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the official interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, and imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. 28 Table of Contents The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to us create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, such as the legal system used in the United States, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business and business prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. If relations between the United States and China worsen, our stock price may decrease and we may have difficulty accessing the U.S. capital markets. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to access U.S. capital markets. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. Currently, the Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans and corporate debt obligations denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from this offering of our common stock into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. Any significant devaluation of Renminbi may reduce our operation costs in U.S. dollars but may also reduce our earnings in U.S. dollars. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. Since 1994 the PRC has pegged the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. We do not believe that this policy has had a material effect on our business. There can be no assurance that Renminbi will not be subject to devaluation. We may not be able to hedge effectively against Renminbi devaluation, so there can be no assurance that future movements in the exchange rate of Renminbi and other currencies will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future and we currently do not intend to pay dividends. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of legal judgments upon our company and our officers and directors because some of them reside outside the United States. As our operations are presently based in China and some of our key directors and officers reside outside the United States, service of process on our key directors and officers may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States and any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable outside the United States. We have appointed Norbert Sporns, our Chief Executive Officer and President, as our agent to receive service of process in any action against our company in the United States. Risks Relating to our Common Stock There are a large number of shares underlying our secured convertible notes and warrants that may be available for future sale and the sale of these shares may depress the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2007, we had 11,511,317 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. As of the same date, there were approximately 573 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding secured convertible promissory notes we issued in January 2006. Further, there were approximately 1,000,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes we issued in November 2006. In addition, we currently have outstanding Class A warrants to purchase up to 43,750 shares of our common stock, Class B warrants to purchase up to 114,583 shares of our common stock, Class C warrants to purchase up to 105,825 shares of our common stock, Class D warrants to purchase up to 167,200 shares of our common stock, and stock purchase warrants to purchase up to 200,000 shares of our common stock issued in connection with the November 2006 financing. In 30 Table of Contents March 2008, we were also required to issue 300,000 shares of common stock to the investors in the November 2006 financing as part of the liquidated damages due to failure to timely file a registration statement for and to effect timely registration under the Securities Act of the underlying shares of common stock for the securities issued in the November 2006 financing, and interests and penalties payable on that same financing up to that date. These shares, including all of the shares issuable upon conversion of the secured convertible notes and upon exercise of the warrants, may be sold into the market place currently or in the next two years following their registration under the Securities Act. The sale of these shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 