Risk Factors The following are important factors we have identified that could affect our future results. You should consider them carefully when evaluating forward-looking statements made by us, including those contained in this Annual Report, because these factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. I. Operational Considerations Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter making future operating results difficult to predict. Our quarterly operating results historically have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including: • a high percentage of our revenue historically has been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter and any failure to receive, complete or process orders at the end of any quarter could cause us to fall short of our revenue targets; • a growing percentage of our revenue comes from our PLM solutions, which tend to be sold in larger deals with longer lead times that are less predictable; • our operating expenses are based on expected revenues and any failure to achieve our revenue targets could cause us to fall short of our earnings targets as well; • our mix of license and service revenues can vary from quarter to quarter, creating variability in our operating margins; • because a significant portion of our revenue comes from outside the U.S. and a significant portion of our expense structure is located internationally, shifts in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenue and/or expenses; and • we may incur significant expenses in a quarter in connection with corporate development initiatives, restructuring efforts or our investigation, defense or settlement of legal actions that would increase our operating expenses for the quarter in which those expenses are incurred. Accordingly, our quarterly results are difficult to predict prior to the end of the quarter and we may be unable to confirm or adjust expectations with respect to our operating results for a particular quarter until that quarter has closed. Any failure to meet our quarterly revenue or earnings targets could adversely impact the market price of our stock. Weakness in the United States and international economies may continue to adversely affect our business. The past two years have been characterized by weak global economic conditions, a tightening in the credit markets, reduced liquidity, and extreme volatility in many financial markets. We experienced a significant decline in license revenue in 2009 in all geographic regions in which we operate as customers reduced or deferred purchases of our products and services. The steep declines in license revenue in 2009 adversely impacted our maintenance and services revenues in 2010. Although these conditions seem to be improving, with license revenue 39% higher in 2010 as compared to 2009 (but still 11% lower than 2008), it is uncertain whether a sustainable recovery is currently taking place on a worldwide basis and these adverse conditions may unfavorably impact our business, financial results and financial condition. Competition is intensifying, which may reduce our profits and limit or reduce our market share. The market for product development solutions is rapidly changing and is increasingly competitive. We expect competition to intensify, which could result in price reductions for our products and services, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our primary competition comes from: • larger companies that offer PLM and/or CAx solutions suites; 7 Table of Contents • larger, more well-known enterprise software providers who have extended, or may seek to extend, the functionality of their products to encompass PLM or who may develop and/or purchase PLM technology; and • other vendors of various CAx and/or PLM point solutions. The CAx market is characterized by intense competition for customers. However, the nature of this market (which is relatively mature and whose growth has slowed) and the number and nature of the competitive products (which have increasingly similar functionality) make it difficult to gain new customers. Moreover, decreasing product differentiation and the training, data conversion and other startup costs associated with system replacement make it more difficult to dislodge incumbent design systems. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changing technology and address our customers’ needs and expectations, and any failure to do so could reduce demand for our products. Our ability to remain competitive will depend on our ability to enhance our current offerings and develop new products and services that keep pace with technological developments and meet evolving customer requirements through: • internal research and development and quality assurance programs; • strategic partnerships; and • acquisition or license of technology. In addition, our solutions must meet customer expectations to be successful, especially with respect to: • return on investment and value creation; • ease and speed of installation; • ease-of-use and interoperability; • full capability, functionality and performance; • ability to support a large, diverse and geographically dispersed user base, including the ability to support global product development programs; and • quality and efficiency of the services performed by us and our partners relating to implementation and configuration. If our solutions fail to meet customer expectations, customers may discontinue adoption of our solutions, resulting in a loss of potential additional sales, and we may be unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if significant errors or defects are found in our software. Sophisticated software can sometimes contain errors, defects or other performance problems. If errors or defects are discovered in our current or future products, we may need to expend significant financial, technical and management resources, or divert some of our development resources, in order to resolve or work around those defects, and we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or provide an adequate response to our customers. Errors, defects or other performance problems in our products could cause us to delay new product releases or customer deployments. Any such delays could cause delays in our ability to realize revenue from the licensing and shipment of new or enhanced products and give our competitors a greater opportunity to market competing 8 Table of Contents products. Such difficulties could also cause us to lose customers. Technical problems or the loss of customers could also damage our business reputation and cause us to lose new business opportunities. Businesses we acquire may not generate the revenue and earnings we anticipated and may otherwise adversely affect our business. We have acquired, and intend to continue to acquire, new businesses and technologies. If we fail to successfully integrate and manage the businesses and technologies we acquire, our operating results may be adversely affected. Moreover, business combinations also involve a number of risks and uncertainties that can adversely affect our operations and operating results, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • loss of key personnel; • unanticipated operating difficulties in connection with the acquired entities, including potential declines in revenue of the acquired entity; • assumption of unanticipated legal or financial liabilities; • incurring debt to finance an acquisition; • impairment of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; and • dilution to our earnings per share if we were to issue stock as consideration. We are dependent on key personnel whose loss could impair our operations, our product development or our sales efforts. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, technical and sales personnel. We require highly skilled technical personnel to develop our products. Competition for such personnel in our industry is intense. If we are unable to attract and retain technical personnel with the requisite skills, our product development efforts could be delayed, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our sales efforts rely on having a sufficient number of sales representatives and sales support personnel with the skills and knowledge necessary to sell our products, including an ability to educate our customers about our products in order to create and meet demand for our products. If we are unable to attract or retain sales and sales support personnel with the requisite expertise, our revenue could be adversely affected. At times we provide extended payment terms to our customers, which may be a factor in our customers’ purchasing decisions, and our revenues could be adversely affected if we ceased making these terms available. We have provided extended payment terms to certain customers in connection with transactions we have completed with them. Providing extended payment terms may positively influence our customers’ purchasing decisions but may reduce our cash flows in the short-term. If we reduce the amount of extended payment terms we provide to customers, customers might reduce or defer the amount they spend on our products and services from the amount they might otherwise have spent if extended payment terms were available to them. If this were to occur, our revenue or revenue growth could be lower than in prior periods and/or lower than we expect. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. Our software products and trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, 9 Table of Contents patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection, as well as restrictions on disclosures and transferability contained in our agreements with other parties. Despite these measures, the laws of all relevant jurisdictions may not afford adequate protection to our products and other intellectual property. In addition, we frequently encounter attempts by individuals and companies to pirate our software solutions. If our measures to protect our intellectual property rights fail, others may be able to use those rights, which could reduce our competitiveness and revenues. Intellectual property infringement claims could be asserted against us, which could be expensive to defend and could result in limitations on our use of the claimed intellectual property. The software industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights. While we have not had any significant claims of this type asserted against us, such claims could be asserted against us in the future. If a lawsuit of this type is filed, it could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We cannot be sure that we would prevail against any such asserted claims. If we did not prevail, we could be prevented from using the claimed intellectual property or required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition to possible claims with respect to our proprietary products, some of our products contain technology developed by and licensed from third parties and we may likewise be susceptible to infringement claims with respect to these third-party technologies. Our sales and operations are globally dispersed, which exposes us to additional operating and compliance risks. We sell and deliver software and services, and maintain support operations, in a large number of countries, whose laws and practices differ from one another. North America accounted for 38%, Europe for 39% and Asia-Pacific for 23% of our revenue in 2010. Managing these geographically dispersed operations requires significant attention and resources to ensure compliance with laws. Accordingly, while we maintain a comprehensive compliance program, we cannot guarantee that an employee, agent or business partner will not act in violation of our policies or U.S. or other applicable laws. Such violations can lead to civil and/or criminal prosecutions, substantial fines and the revocation of our rights to continue certain operations and also cause business and reputation loss. Our cost structure is relatively fixed in the short term, which makes it difficult to reduce our expenses quickly in response to declines in revenue or revenue growth. We make expenditures to support our revenue growth in advance of achieving the expected revenue. Our expenses associated with headcount and facilities can be difficult to reduce quickly due to the nature of those items. If revenue does not grow as we expect or if it declines, our expenses may constitute a larger percentage of our operating budget than we planned, which would adversely affect our profitability. Consulting and training services margins are significantly lower than license and maintenance margins. Increases in consulting and training services revenue as a percent of total revenue could decrease our overall margins. Because Enterprise license solutions generally require more services to implement than Desktop license solutions, services revenue as a percent of total revenue may increase. Additionally, future projected improvements in our operating margin percent are predicated in part on our ability to improve consulting and training services margins through operating efficiencies, leverage, and increased use of outside service providers. If our services revenue increases as a percentage of total revenue and/or if we are unable to improve our services margins, our overall operating margin may not increase or may decrease, which could adversely impact our stock price. 10 Table of Contents Our current research and development efforts may not generate revenue for several years, if at all. Developing and localizing software products is expensive, and the investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. Our recently announced CAD product initiative, Creo, may not generate the revenues we expect. We are currently developing a new suite of CAD solutions, Creo, which we believe will be a significant enhancement over the functionality and usability of existing CAD products on the market today and may enhance our long-term revenue growth in the CAx market. If we are unable to release Creo when we expect, or if customers do not adopt Creo when, or at the rate, we expect, our CAD revenues and margins may not increase as expected, if at all. We depend on sales within the discrete manufacturing market and our revenue is likely to decrease if manufacturing activity slows. A large amount of our revenues are related to sales to customers in the discrete manufacturing sector. A decline in general economic or business conditions or a decline in spending in the manufacturing sector or the aerospace and defense industry vertical segments could cause customers to reduce or defer spending on our products, which would cause our revenue and earnings to decrease or to grow more slowly. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from maintenance contracts; decreases in maintenance renewal rates, or a decrease in the number of new licenses we sell, would negatively impact our future maintenance revenue and operating results. A substantial portion of our maintenance revenue is derived from maintenance contracts. These contracts are generally renewed on an annual basis and typically have a high rate of customer renewal. In addition to the recurring revenue base associated with these contracts, a majority of customers purchasing new perpetual licenses also purchase related annual maintenance contracts. If the rate of renewal for these contracts, or the level of maintenance revenue associated with new licenses, is adversely affected by economic or other factors, our maintenance revenue growth and profitability will be adversely affected. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. As a multinational organization, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our tax returns are subject to review by various taxing authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Our effective tax rate can be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • changes in tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; • assessments, and any related tax interest or penalties, by taxing authorities; • changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; 11 Table of Contents • changes to the financial accounting rules for income taxes; • unanticipated changes in tax rates; or • changes to a valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets, if any. II. Other Considerations We have a revolving credit facility and may incur debt under that facility. We entered into a new credit facility in August 2010. Under the terms of our credit facility, we may borrow up to $300 million (with an accordion feature that allows us to borrow up to an additional $150 million if the existing or additional lenders agree), repay the same in whole or in part and re-borrow at any time through August 22, 2014, when any amounts outstanding will be due and payable in full. We have not drawn on the facility, but we may borrow amounts under the credit facility in the future to support our operations, including for strategic acquisitions. In addition, we are required to comply with specified financial and operating covenants, which limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet any payment obligations under the facility could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds. Our stock price has been volatile, which may make it harder to resell your shares at a time and at a price that is favorable to you. Market prices for securities of software companies are generally volatile and are subject to significant fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. The trading prices and valuations of these stocks, and of ours, may not be predictable. Negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of software companies, or of PTC or the markets we serve, could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. Also, a large percentage of our common stock is held by institutional investors. Purchases and sales of our common stock by these institutional investors could have a significant impact on the market price of the stock. For more information about those investors, please see our proxy statement with respect to our most recent annual meeting of stockholders and Schedules 13D and 13G filed with the SEC with respect to our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 