Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would” and “could” are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this report should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this report. The statements are representative only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in our forward-looking statements. We face risks that are inherent in the businesses and the market places in which Harris Teeter and A&E operate. The following discussion sets forth certain risks and uncertainties that we believe could cause actual future results to differ materially from expected results. In addition to the factors discussed below, other factors that might cause our future financial performance to vary from that described in our forward-looking statements include: (i) changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations; (ii) cost and stability of energy sources; (iii) cost and availability of energy and raw materials; (iv) management’s ability to predict accurately the adequacy of the Company’s present liquidity to meet future financial requirements; (v) continued solvency of any third parities on leases the Company has guaranteed; (vi) management’s ability to predict the required contributions to the pension plans of the Company; (vii) the Company’s requirement to impair recorded goodwill or long-lived assets; (viii) changes in labor and employee benefit costs, such as increased health care and other insurance costs; (ix) ability to recruit, train and retain effective employees and management in both of the Company’s operating subsidiaries; (x) the extent and speed of successful execution of strategic initiatives; (xi) volatility of financial and credit markets which would affect access to capital for the Company; and, (xii) unexpected outcomes of any legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business of the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and also could cause actual results to differ materially from those included, contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements made in this report, and the reader should not consider any of the above list of factors and the following discussion to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. 3 Risks Related to Harris Teeter The Supermarket Industry is Highly Competitive. The supermarket industry is characterized by narrow profit margins and competes on value, location and service. Harris Teeter faces increased competitive pressure in all of its markets from existing competitors and from the threatened entry by one or more major new competitors. The number and type of competitors faced by Harris Teeter vary by location and include: traditional grocery retailers (both national and regional), discount retailers such as “supercenters” and “club and warehouse stores,” specialty supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, convenience stores and restaurants. In addition, certain Harris Teeter supermarkets also compete with local video stores, florists, book stores and pharmacies. Aggressive supercenter expansion, increasing fragmentation of retail formats, entry of non-traditional competitors and market consolidation have further contributed to an increasingly competitive marketplace. Additionally, increasingly competitive markets and economic uncertainty have made it difficult generally for grocery store operators to achieve comparable store sales gains. Because sales growth has been difficult to attain, Harris Teeter’s competitors have attempted to maintain market share through increased levels of promotional activities and discount pricing, creating a more difficult environment in which to achieve consistent sales gains. Some of Harris Teeter’s competitors have greater financial resources and could use these resources to take measures which could adversely affect Harris Teeter’s competitive position. Accordingly, Harris Teeter’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by competitive factors, including product mix and pricing changes which may be made in response to competition from existing or new competitors. Harris Teeter’s Expansion Plans Are Subject to Risk. Harris Teeter has spent, and intends to continue to spend, significant capital and management resources on the development and implementation of expansion and renovation plans. Harris Teeter’s new store opening program has accelerated in recent years and involves expanding the company’s Washington, D.C. metro market area which incorporates northern Virginia, the District of Columbia, southern Maryland and coastal Delaware. The successful implementation of Harris Teeter’s renovation and expansion plans are subject to several factors including: the availability of new, suitable locations on reasonable commercial terms, or at all; the success of new stores, including those in new markets; management’s ability to manage expansion, including the effect on sales at existing stores when a new store is opened nearby; the ability to secure any necessary financing; change in regional and national economic conditions; and increasing competition or changes in the competitive environment in Harris Teeter’s markets. Harris Teeter’s new stores may initially operate at a loss, depending on factors such as prevailing competition and market position in the surrounding communities and the level of sales and profit margins in existing stores may not be duplicated in new stores. Pursuing a strategy of growth, renovation and expansion in light of current highly competitive industry conditions could lead to a near-term decline in earnings as a result of opening and operating a substantial number of new stores, particularly with respect to stores in markets where Harris Teeter does not have a significant presence. If Harris Teeter’s expansion and renovation plans are unsuccessful, it could adversely affect Harris Teeter’s cash flow, business and financial condition due to the significant amount of capital and management resources invested. Food Safety Issues Could Result in a Loss of Consumer Confidence and Product Liability Claims. Harris Teeter could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the food supply chain. These concerns could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from Harris Teeter, or to seek alternative sources of supply for their food needs, even if the basis for the concern is not valid and/or is outside of the company’s control. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, could discourage consumers from buying our products and any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food items sold by Harris Teeter, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on the company’s operations. Harris Teeter’s Geographic Concentration May Expose it to Regional or Localized Downturns. Harris Teeter operates primarily in the southeastern United States, with a strong concentration in North Carolina, Virginia and South Carolina. As a result, Harris Teeter’s business is more susceptible to regional factors than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors. These factors include, among others, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population. Although the southeast region has experienced economic and demographic growth in the past, a significant economic downturn in the region could have a material adverse effect on Harris Teeter’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Ownership and Development of Real Estate May Subject Harris Teeter to Environmental Liability. Under applicable environmental laws, as an owner or developer of real estate, Harris Teeter may be responsible for remediation of environmental conditions that may be discovered and may be subject to associated liabilities (including liabilities resulting from lawsuits brought by private litigants) relating to Harris Teeter supermarkets and other buildings and the land on which those building are situated, whether the properties are leased or owned, and whether such environmental conditions, if in existence, were created by Harris Teeter or by a prior owner or tenant. The discovery of contamination from hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly remediate such contaminated property, may adversely affect Harris Teeter’s ability to sell or rent real property or to borrow using real property as collateral. Liabilities or costs resulting from noncompliance with current or future applicable environmental laws or other claims relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on Harris Teeter’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 4 Risks Related to A&E A&E Operates in a Competitive Global Industry. A&E competes on a global basis with a large number of manufacturers in the highly competitive sewing thread, embroidery thread and technical textile industries. Maintaining A&E’s competitive position may require substantial investments in product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for A&E’s products or force A&E to lower its prices. Other generally adverse economic and industry conditions, including a decline in consumer demand for apparel products, could have a material adverse effect on A&E’s business. A&E may not Succeed at Integrating Its Acquisitions. In recent years, A&E has expanded its foreign production and distribution capacity by acquiring other manufacturers, entering into joint ventures or starting new businesses. Management expects A&E to continue this activity and expand foreign production and distribution operations through acquisitions, joint ventures or new start-up operations. The process of combining these acquisitions with A&E’s existing businesses involves risks. A&E will face challenges in consolidating functions, integrating organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key personnel. Failure to successfully manage and integrate acquisitions, joint ventures or new start-up businesses could lead to the potential loss of customers, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could affect A&E’s financial condition and results of operations. Even if integration occurs successfully, failure of future acquisitions to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity may adversely impact A&E’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, expansions involving foreign markets may present other complexities that may require additional attention from members of management. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on A&E’s revenues, level of expenses and operating results. A&E Has Substantial International Operations. In fiscal 2009, approximately 55% of A&E’s net sales and a large portion of A&E’s production occurred outside the United States, primarily in Europe, Latin America and Asia. A&E’s corporate strategy includes the expansion and growth of its international business on a worldwide basis, with an emphasis on Asia. As a result, A&E’s operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties, including risks of restrictive taxation policies, changing political conditions and governmental regulations. A&E’s foreign operations also subjects A&E to the risks inherent in currency translations. A&E’s global operations make it impossible to eliminate completely all foreign currency translation risks and its impact on A&E’s financial results. A&E Has Raw Material Price Volatility. The significant price volatility of many of A&E’s raw materials may result in increased production costs, which A&E may not be able to pass on to its customers. A significant portion of the raw materials A&E uses in manufacturing thread and technical textiles are petroleum-based. The prices for petroleum and petroleum-related products are volatile. While A&E at times in the past has been able to increase product prices due to raw material increases, A&E generally is not able to immediately raise product prices and may be unable to completely pass on underlying cost increases to its customers. Additional raw material and energy cost increases that A&E is not able to fully pass on to customers or the loss of a large number of customers to competitors as a result of price increases could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Other Risks Narrow Profit Margins may Adversely Affect the Company’s Business. Profit margins in the supermarket and thread industries are very narrow. In order to increase or maintain the Company’s profit margins, strategies are used to reduce costs, such as productivity improvements, shrink reduction, distribution efficiencies, energy efficiency programs and other similar strategies. Changes in product mix also may negatively affect certain financial measures. If the Company is unable to achieve forecasted cost reductions there may be an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Our Self-Insurance Reserves are Subject to Variability and Unpredictable External Factors. As discussed in more detail below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Self-insurance Reserves for Workers’ Compensation, Healthcare and General Liability,” the Company is primarily self-insured for most U.S. workers’ compensation claims, healthcare claims and general liability and automotive liability losses. Accordingly, the Company determines the estimated reserve required for claims in each accounting period, which requires that management determine estimates of the costs of claims incurred and accrue for such expenses in the period in which the claims are incurred. The liabilities that have been recorded for these claims represent our best estimate of the ultimate obligations for reported claims plus those incurred but not reported. Changes in legal trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, and changes in discount rates could all affect ultimate settlements of claims or the assumptions underlying our liability estimates, which could cause a material change for our self-insurance liability reserves and impact earnings. 5 The Company may Incur Increased Pension Expenses. The Company maintains certain retirement benefit plans for substantially all domestic full-time employees and a supplemental retirement benefit plan for certain selected officers of the Company and its subsidiaries, including a qualified pension plan which is a non-contributory, funded defined benefit plan and a non-qualified supplemental pension plan for executives which is an unfunded, defined benefit plan. The Company has frozen participation and benefit accruals under the Company-sponsored defined benefit plan effective September 30, 2005 for all participants, with certain transition benefits provided to those participants that have achieved specified age and service levels on December 31, 2005; however, at September 27, 2009, the Company’s pension plans had projected benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to our pension plans will depend on government regulation, returns on plan assets and actuarial assumptions regarding our future funding obligations. For more information, refer to the Note entitled “Employee Benefit Plans” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 hereof. Adverse Economic Conditions may Negatively Impact the Company’s Operating Results. The increase in unemployment and loss of consumer confidence can alter the consumers’ buying habits and demand for apparel products. In addition, consumers may decrease their purchases of more discretionary items and increase their purchase of lower cost food products. Adverse economic conditions in the financial markets, including the availability of financing, could also adversely affect the Company's operating results by increasing costs related to obtaining financing at acceptable rates and reduce our customers’ liquidity position. These conditions could materially affect the Company’s customers causing reductions or cancellations of existing sales orders and inhibit the Company’s ability to collect receivables. In addition, the Company’s suppliers may be unable to fulfill the Company’s outstanding orders or could change credit terms that would negatively affect the Company’s liquidity. All of these factors could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 