ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate multi-family and commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial mortgage, commercial business, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: * Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. Commercial mortgage loans represented 51.6% of total gross loans as of December 31, 2005. * Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business. Commercial loans represented 9.2% of total gross loans as of December 31, 2005. * Construction Loans. Construction financing is generally considered to involve a higher degree of credit risk than long- term financing on improved, owner-occupied real estate. Risk of loss on a construction loan is dependent largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property's value at completion of construction compared to the estimated cost (including interest) of construction and other assumptions, including the estimated time to sell residential properties. Construction loans represented 5.2% of total gross loans as of December 31, 2005. * Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. Consumer loans represented 0.6% of total gross loans as of December 31, 2005. Any downturn in the real estate market or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower's business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our historical loss experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. As of December 31, 2005, the allowance for loan loss as a percent of year-end loans was 1.05%. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which will result in a decrease of our net interest income. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of 18 loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Our earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because a significant portion of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed rate mortgage-related assets that will not reprice as long-term interest rates increase while a majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are expected to reprice as interest rates increase. Therefore, in an increasing interest rate environment, our cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the yields earned on our loan portfolio and securities portfolio. An increasing rate environment is expected to cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our net interest income. The rising interest rate environment has compressed our net interest margin from 3.44% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 3.39% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our local economy may affect our future growth possibilities. Our current market area is principally located in southeastern Massachusetts and contiguous areas of Rhode Island. Our future growth opportunities depend on the growth and stability of our regional economy and our ability to expand our market area. A downturn in our local economy may limit funds available for deposit and may negatively affect our borrowers' ability to repay their loans on a timely basis, both of which could have an impact on our profitability. Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for savings deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions in our primary market area. Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced additional significant competition for investors' funds from brokerage firms and other firms' short-term money market securities and corporate and government securities. Our competition for loans comes principally from mortgage brokers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions, and insurance companies. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the state of Massachusetts, as the Bank's chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") as the insurer of our deposits up to certain limits. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC's insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators' supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. Although we have employment agreements with our president and chief executive officer, our executive vice president and chief financial officer/chief operations officer, and our senior vice president that contain non-compete provisions, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In the future, we will be required to include in our annual reports filed with the Securities and 19 Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a report of our management regarding internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We expect this requirement to be in effect beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. However, if we become an "accelerated filer," as defined by SEC regulations, we will have to comply with this requirement beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. In anticipation of this new obligation, we have begun to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. Accordingly, management has retained outside consultants to assist us in (i) assessing and documenting the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, (ii) improving control processes, where appropriate, and (iii) verifying through testing that controls are functioning as documented. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved staff comments as of December 31, 2005. 20 