Risk Factors Our future operating results and financial condition may be affected by various factors, including those set forth below. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products, our future sales and operating performance will suffer. The mid- and premium-price categories of the prescription frame and sunglasses markets in which we compete are particularly vulnerable to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences. Our historical success is attributable, in part, to our introduction of innovative eyewear products which are perceived to represent an improvement over products otherwise available in the market. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to develop and introduce such innovative products. If we are unable to continue to do so, our future sales could decline, inventory levels could rise, leading to additional costs for storage and potential writedowns relating to the value of excess inventory, and production costs would be negatively impacted since fixed costs would represent a larger portion of total production costs due to the decline in quantities produced. If we fail to maintain an efficient distribution network in our highly competitive markets, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The mid- and premium-price categories of the prescription frame and sunglasses markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We believe that, in addition to successfully introducing new products, responding to changes in the market environment and maintaining superior production capabilities, our ability to remain competitive is highly dependent on our success in maintaining an efficient distribution network. If we are unable to maintain an efficient distribution network, our sales may decline due to the inability to timely deliver products to customers and our profitability may decline due to an increase in our per unit distribution costs in the affected regions, which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not correctly predict future economic conditions and changes in consumer preferences, our sales of premium products and profitability will suffer. The fashion eyewear industry is cyclical. Downturns in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects, which affect consumer disposable income, have historically adversely affected consumer spending habits in our principal markets and thus made the growth in sales and profitability of premium-priced product categories difficult during such downturns. Therefore, future economic downturns or uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including sales of our designer and other premium brands. The eyewear industry is also subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences. There can be no assurance that the growth of the fashion eyewear industry will continue or that consumer preferences will not change in a manner which will adversely affect the fashion eyewear industry as a whole or us in particular. Changes in fashion could also affect the popularity and, therefore, the value of the fashion licenses granted to us by designers. Any event or circumstance resulting in reduced market acceptance of one or more of these designers could reduce our sales and the value of our inventory of models based on that design. Unanticipated shifts in consumer preferences may also result in excess inventory and underutilized manufacturing capacity. In addition, our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and react to changing fashion trends in a timely manner. Any sustained failure to identify and respond to such trends would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and may result in the write down of excess inventory and idle manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to achieve and manage growth, operating margins will be reduced as a result of decreased efficiency of distribution. In order to achieve and manage our growth effectively, we will be required to increase and streamline production and implement manufacturing efficiencies where possible, while maintaining strict quality control and the ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely and efficient manner. We must also continuously develop new product designs and features, expand our information systems and operations, and train and manage an increasing number of management level and other employees. If we are unable to manage these matters effectively, our efficient distribution process could be at risk and we could lose market share in affected regions. 9 If we do not continue to negotiate and maintain favorable license arrangements, our sales or cost of sales will suffer. We have entered into license agreements that enable us to manufacture and distribute prescription frames and sunglasses under certain designer names, including Chanel, Prada, Dolce & Gabbana, D&G, Versace, Bulgari, Miu Miu, Salvatore Ferragamo, Donna Karan, DKNY, Genny, Byblos, Brooks Brothers, Sergio Tacchini, Anne Klein, Moschino, Versus and Adrienne Vittadini and, most recently, Burberry and Polo Ralph Lauren. These license agreements typically have terms of between three and ten years (except for the license agreement for the Moschino line, which is terminable upon 12 months’ notice), may contain options for renewal for additional periods and require us to make guaranteed and contingent royalty payments to the licensor. See Item 4—“Information on the Company—Business Overview—Recent Developments” regarding our new license agreements for the Burberry and Polo Ralph Lauren names. We believe that our ability to maintain and negotiate favorable license agreements with leading designers in the fashion and luxury goods industries is essential to the branding of our products and, therefore, material to the success of our business. Accordingly, if we are unable to negotiate and maintain satisfactory license arrangements with leading designers, our growth prospects and financial results could suffer from a reduction in sales or an increase in advertising costs and royalty payments to designers. If vision correction alternatives to prescription eyeglasses become more widely available, or consumer preferences for such alternatives increase, our business could be adversely affected. Our business could be negatively impacted by the availability and acceptance of vision correction alternatives to prescription eyeglasses, such as contact lenses and refractive optical surgery. According to industry estimates, over 40 million people wear contact lenses in the United States, and disposable contact lenses is the fastest growing segment of the lens subsector. In addition, the use of refractive optical surgery has grown substantially since it was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 1995. Increased use of vision correction alternatives could result in decreased use of our prescription eyewear products, including a reduction of sales of lenses and accessories sold in our retail outlets, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If the Euro continues to strengthen relative to certain other currencies, our profitability as a consolidated group will suffer. Our principal manufacturing facilities are located in Italy, and we maintain sales and distribution facilities throughout the world. As a result, we are vulnerable to foreign exchange rate fluctuations in two principal areas: • we incur most of our manufacturing costs in Euro and receive a significant part of our revenues in other currencies, particularly the U.S. and Australian dollars. Therefore, a strengthening of the Euro relative to other currencies in which we receive revenues could negatively impact the demand for our products or decrease our profitability in consolidation, thus adversely affecting our business and results of operations; and • a substantial portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and costs are denominated in various currencies other than Euro, with most of our operating expenses in U.S. dollars. As a result, our operating results, which are reported in Euro, are affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations, particularly between the U.S. dollar and the Euro. As our international operations grow, future changes in the exchange rate of the Euro against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may negatively impact our reported results. See Item 11—“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” 10 If our international sales suffer due to changing local conditions, our profitability and future growth will be affected. We currently operate worldwide and intend to expand our operations in many countries, including certain developing countries in Asia. Therefore, we are subject to various risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following: • exposure to local economic and political conditions; • export and import restrictions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls; • withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • investment restrictions or requirements; and • local content laws requiring that certain products contain a specified minimum percentage of domestically produced components. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on us vary from country to country and are unpredictable, but any such occurrence may result in the loss of sales or increased costs of doing business and may have a significant effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, the loss of sales and the costs of defending such rights will adversely affect our business and financial results. We rely on trade secret, unfair competition, trade dress, trademark, patent and copyright laws to protect our rights to certain aspects of our products, including product designs, proprietary manufacturing processes and technologies, product research and concepts and recognized trademarks, all of which we believe are important to the success of our products and our competitive position. However, pending trademark applications may not generate registered trademarks, and any trademark registration that is granted may be ineffective in preventing competition and could be held invalid if subsequently challenged. In addition, the actions we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products. Our proprietary information could become known to competitors, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights to proprietary information. Furthermore, other companies may independently develop substantially equivalent or better products that do not infringe on our intellectual property rights or could assert rights in, and ownership of, our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We devote significant resources toward defending our proprietary rights. However, if the level of potentially infringing activities by others were to increase substantially, we might have to significantly increase the resources we devote to protecting our rights. Additionally, an adverse determination in any dispute involving our proprietary rights could, among other things, (i) require us to grant licenses to, or obtain licenses from, third parties, (ii) prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products or (iii) subject us to substantial liability. Any of these possibilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If we are unable to maintain our current operating relationship with Cole Licensed Brands host stores, we would suffer loss of sales and possible impairment of certain intangible assets. Our sales depend in part on our relationships with the host stores that sell Cole’s Licensed Brands products, including Sears. Our leases and licenses with Sears are terminable upon short notice. If our relationship with Sears were to end, we would suffer a loss of sales and the possible impairment of certain intangible assets. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If we become subject to adverse judgments or determinations in legal proceedings to which we are, or may become, a party, then our business could be adversely affected. We are currently a party to certain legal proceedings as described in Item 8—“Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we become involved in various other claims, lawsuits, investigations and governmental and administrative proceedings, some of which are significant. Adverse judgments or determinations in one or more of these proceedings could require us to change the way we do business or use substantial resources in adhering to the settlements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 If we become subject to additional regulation by governmental authorities, our compliance with these regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Governmental regulations, both in the United States and other jurisdictions, have historically been subject to change. New or revised requirements imposed by governmental regulatory authorities could have an adverse effect on us, including increased costs of compliance. We may also be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by governmental authorities that could affect sales or the way we currently distribute our products. See Item 4—“Information on the Company—Regulatory Matters” and Item 8—“Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” If we are not successful in completing and integrating strategic acquisitions to expand or complement our business, our future profitability and growth will be at risk. As part of our growth strategy, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic business acquisitions to expand or complement our business. Our acquisition activities, however, can be disrupted by overtures from competitors for the targeted candidates, governmental regulation and rapid developments in our industry. We may face additional risks and uncertainties following an acquisition, including: (i) difficulty in integrating the newly-acquired business and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) inability to achieve strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from the acquisition; (iii) the lack of success by the acquired business in its markets; (iv) the loss of key employees of the acquired business; (v) the diversion of the attention of senior management from our operations; and (vi) liabilities that were not known at the time of acquisition or the need to address tax or accounting issues. Specifically, with regard to our acquisition of Cole, we may face additional risks and uncertainties following such acquisition, including: (i) difficulty in integrating the newly acquired business and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) inability to achieve strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from the acquisition; (iii) the lack of success by the acquired business in its markets; (iv) the loss of key employees of the acquired business; (v) the diversion of the attention of senior management from our operations; (vi) liabilities that were not known at the time of acquisition or creation of tax or accounting issues; (vii) difficulty in the consolidation of Cole’s headquarters with Luxottica Retail headquarters in Mason, Ohio; (viii) difficulty integrating Cole’s human resources systems, operating systems, inventory management systems, and assorted planning systems with the Company’s systems; (ix) difficulty integrating Cole’s distribution center with the Company’s distribution center; (x) difficulty finalizing the integration of product assortment; (xi) difficulty integrating Cole’s Managed Vision Care system with the Company’s Managed Vision Care system; (xii) the inability of the Company to minimize the disruptive effect of the integration on the management of the Company’s retail business; (xiii) difficulty in the timely creation and effective implementation of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and (xiv) the cultural differences between the Company’s organization and Cole’s organization. If we fail to timely recognize or address these matters or to devote adequate resources to them, we may fail to achieve our growth strategy or otherwise not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. 