Risk Factors Our future operating results and financial condition may be affected by various factors, including those set forth below. Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Worldwide economic conditions have deteriorated significantly over the past year in many countries and regions in which we do business and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Due to the nature of our products, our sales, especially in our retail stores, are affected by the discretionary spending of consumers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including general business conditions, inflation, interest rates, consumer debt levels, unemployment rates, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates and other matters that influence consumer confidence. Many of these factors are outside our control. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items could decline during periods in which disposable income is lower or prices have increased in response to rising costs or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs or if unfavorable economic conditions continue to challenge the consumer environment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, in economic conditions where there is decreased access to credit, increased financial difficulties may lead to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our consumers, customers, vendors, suppliers, logistics providers, other service providers and the financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and other derivative transactions. The likelihood that such third parties will be unable to overcome these financial difficulties may increase. If the third parties on which we rely for goods and services are unable to overcome financial difficulties resulting from the deterioration of the worldwide economic conditions or if the counterparties to our credit facilities or our derivative transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we are not successful in completing and integrating strategic acquisitions to expand or complement our business, our future profitability and growth will be at risk. As part of our growth strategy, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic business acquisitions to expand or complement our business. Our acquisition activities, however, can be disrupted by overtures from competitors for the targeted candidates, governmental regulation and rapid developments in our industry. We may face additional risks and uncertainties following an acquisition, including: (i) difficulty in integrating the newly-acquired business and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) inability to achieve strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from the acquisition; (iii) the lack of success by the acquired business in its markets; (iv) the loss of key employees of the acquired business; (v) the diversion of the attention of senior management from our operations; (vi) difficulty integrating human resources systems, operating systems, inventory management systems and assortment planning systems of the acquired business with our systems; (vii) the cultural differences between our organization and that of the acquired business; and (viii) liabilities that were not known at the time of acquisition or the need to address tax or accounting issues. If we fail to timely recognize or address these matters or to devote adequate resources to them, we may fail to achieve our growth strategy or otherwise realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. Even if we are able to integrate our business operations successfully, the integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from the integration or in the achievement of such benefits within the forecasted period of time. 7 Table of Contents If we do not correctly predict future economic conditions and changes in consumer preferences, our sales of premium products and profitability will suffer. The fashion and consumer products industries in which we operate are cyclical. Downturns in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects, which affect consumer disposable income, have historically adversely affected consumer spending habits in our principal markets and thus made the growth in sales and profitability of premium-priced product categories difficult during such downturns. Therefore, future economic downturns or uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including sales of our designer and other premium brands. The industry is also subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, and future sales may suffer if the fashion and consumer products industries do not continue to grow or if consumer preferences shift away from our products. Changes in fashion could also affect the popularity and, therefore, the value of the fashion licenses granted to us by designers. Any event or circumstance resulting in reduced market acceptance of one or more of these designers could reduce our sales and the value of our inventory of models from that designer. Unanticipated shifts in consumer preferences may also result in excess inventory and underutilized manufacturing capacity. In addition, our success depends, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and react to changing fashion trends in a timely manner. Any sustained failure to identify and respond to such trends would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and may result in the write-down of excess inventory and idle manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products, our future sales and operating performance will suffer. The mid- and premium-price categories of the prescription frame and sunglasses markets in which we compete are particularly vulnerable to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences. Our historical success is attributable, in part, to our introduction of innovative products which are perceived to represent an improvement over products otherwise available in the market. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to develop and introduce such innovative products. If we are unable to continue to do so, our future sales could decline, inventory levels could rise, leading to additional costs for storage and potential writedowns relating to the value of excess inventory, and production costs would be negatively impacted since fixed costs would represent a larger portion of total production costs due to the decline in quantities produced. If we fail to maintain an efficient distribution network in our highly competitive markets, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The mid- and premium-price categories of the prescription frame and sunglasses markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We believe that, in addition to successfully introducing new products, responding to changes in the market environment and maintaining superior production capabilities, our ability to remain competitive is highly dependent on our success in maintaining an efficient distribution network. If we are unable to maintain an efficient distribution network, our sales may decline due to the inability to timely deliver products to customers and our profitability may decline due to an increase in our per unit distribution costs in the affected regions, which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to achieve and manage growth, operating margins will be reduced as a result of decreased efficiency of distribution. In order to achieve and manage our growth effectively, we are required to increase and streamline production and implement manufacturing efficiencies where possible, while maintaining strict quality control and the ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely and efficient manner. We must also continuously develop new product designs and features, expand our information systems and operations, and train and manage an increasing number of management level and other employees. If we are unable to manage these matters effectively, our efficient distribution process could be at risk and we could lose market share in affected regions. If we do not continue to negotiate and maintain favorable license arrangements, our sales or cost of sales will suffer. We have entered into license agreements that enable us to manufacture and distribute prescription frames and sunglasses under certain designer names, including Chanel, Prada, Miu Miu, Dolce & Gabbana, D&G, Bvlgari, Tiffany & Co., Versace, Versus, Salvatore Ferragamo, Burberry, Polo Ralph Lauren, Donna Karan, DKNY, Paul Smith Spectacles, Brooks Brothers, Anne Klein, Stella McCartney and, most recently, Tory Burch. These license agreements typically have terms of between three and ten years and may contain options for renewal for additional periods and require us to make 8 Table of Contents guaranteed and contingent royalty payments to the licensor. See Item 4—“Information on the Company—Business Overview—Recent Developments” regarding our new license agreement for the Tory Burch name. We believe that our ability to maintain and negotiate favorable license agreements with leading designers in the fashion and luxury goods industries is essential to the branding of our products and, therefore, material to the success of our business. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the sales realized through the Prada and Miu Miu trade names together represented approximately 5.5 percent and 6.4 percent of total sales, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the sales realized through the Dolce & Gabbana and D&G trade names together represented approximately 5.1 percent and 5.5 percent of total sales, respectively. Accordingly, if we are unable to negotiate and maintain satisfactory license arrangements with leading designers, our growth prospects and financial results could suffer from a reduction in sales or an increase in advertising costs and royalty payments to designers. If vision correction alternatives to prescription eyeglasses become more widely available, or consumer preferences for such alternatives increase, our profitability could suffer through a reduction of sales of our prescription eyewear products, including lenses and accessories. Our business could be negatively impacted by the availability and acceptance of vision correction alternatives to prescription eyeglasses, such as contact lenses and refractive optical surgery. According to industry estimates, over 45 million people wear contact lenses in the United States, and disposable contact lenses is the fastest growing segment of the lens subsector. In addition, the use of refractive optical surgery has grown substantially since it was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 1995. Increased use of vision correction alternatives could result in decreased use of our prescription eyewear products, including a reduction of sales of lenses and accessories sold in our retail outlets, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If the Euro continues to strengthen relative to certain other currencies, our profitability as a consolidated group will suffer. Our principal manufacturing facilities are located in Italy. We also maintain manufacturing facilities in China, India and the United States as well as sales and distribution facilities throughout the world. As a result, we are vulnerable to foreign exchange rate fluctuations in two principal areas: · we incur most of our manufacturing costs in Euro and in Chinese Yuan, and receive a significant part of our revenues in other currencies. Therefore, a strengthening of the Euro or the Chinese Yuan relative to other currencies in which we receive revenues could negatively impact the demand for our products or decrease our profitability in consolidation, thus adversely affecting our business and results of operations; and · a substantial portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and costs are denominated in various currencies other than Euro, with most of our revenues and operating expenses being denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, our operating results, which are reported in Euro, are affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations, particularly between the U.S. dollar and the Euro. As our international operations grow, future changes in the exchange rate of the Euro against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may negatively impact our reported results. See Item 11—“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” If our international sales suffer due to changing local conditions, our profitability and future growth will be affected. We currently operate worldwide and have begun to expand our operations in many countries, including certain developing countries in Asia and South America. Therefore, we are subject to various risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following: · exposure to local economic and political conditions; · export and import restrictions; · currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls; · disruptions of capital and trading markets; 9 Table of Contents · accounts receivable collection and longer payment cycles; · potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · changes in legal or regulatory requirements; · withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; · investment restrictions or requirements; and · local content laws requiring that certain products contain a specified minimum percentage of domestically produced components. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on us vary from country to country and are unpredictable, but any such occurrence may result in the loss of sales or increased costs of doing business and may have a significant effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, our sales might suffer, and we may incur significant costs to defend such rights. We rely on trade secret, unfair competition, trade dress, trademark, patent and copyright laws to protect our rights to certain aspects of our products and services, including product designs, proprietary manufacturing processes and technologies, product research and concepts and recognized trademarks, all of which we believe are important to the success of our products and services and our competitive position. However, pending trademark or patent applications may not in all instances result in the issuance of a registered trademark or patent, and trademarks or patents granted may not be effective in thwarting competition or be held valid if subsequently challenged. In addition, the actions we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products and services. Our proprietary information could become known to competitors, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights to proprietary information. Furthermore, other companies may independently develop substantially equivalent or better products or services that do not infringe on our intellectual property rights or could assert rights in, and ownership of, our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Consistent with our strategy of vigorously defending our intellectual property rights, we devote substantial resources to the enforcement of patents issued and trademarks granted to us, to the protection of our trade secrets, trade dress or other intellectual property rights and to the determination of the scope or validity of the proprietary rights of others that might be asserted against us. However, if the level of potentially infringing activities by others were to increase substantially, we might have to significantly increase the resources we devote to protecting our rights. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark or similar rights against intellectual property that is important to our business. The resolution or compromise of any litigation or other legal process to enforce such alleged third party rights, regardless of its merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management. We may not prevail in any such litigation or other legal process or we may compromise or settle such claims because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property disputes and the significant expense in defending such claims. An adverse determination in any dispute involving our proprietary rights could, among other things, (i) require us to grant licenses to, or obtain licenses from, third parties, (ii) prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, (iii) require us to discontinue the use of a particular patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret or (iv) subject us to substantial liability. Any of these possibilities could have a material adverse effect on our business including by reducing our future sales or causing us to incur significant costs to defend our rights. If we are unable to maintain our current operating relationship with Cole Licensed Brands host stores, we could suffer loss of sales and possible impairment of certain intangible assets. Our sales depend in part on our relationships with the host stores that allow us to operate our Cole’s Licensed Brands division, including Sears. Our leases and licenses with Sears are terminable upon short notice. If our relationship with Sears were to end, we would suffer a loss of sales and the possible impairment of certain intangible assets. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 10 Table of Contents If we become subject to adverse judgments or determinations in legal proceedings to which we are, or may become, a party, our future profitability could suffer through a reduction of sales or increased costs. We are currently a party to certain legal proceedings as described in Item 8—“Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we become involved in various other claims, lawsuits, investigations and governmental and administrative proceedings, some of which are significant. Adverse judgments or determinations in one or more of these proceedings could require us to change the way we do business or use substantial resources in adhering to the settlements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, including, among other consequences, by significantly increasing our costs to operate our business. If we become subject to additional regulation by governmental authorities, our compliance with these regulations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, including adversely affecting the way we manufacture or distribute our products. Our operations are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Governmental regulations, both in the United States and other jurisdictions, have historically been subject to change. New or revised requirements imposed by governmental regulatory authorities could have an adverse effect on us, including increased costs of compliance. We may also be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by governmental authorities that could affect sales or the way we currently manufacture or distribute our products. Additionally, as a U.S. government contractor through our Oakley and Eye Safety Systems subsidiaries, we must comply with, and are affected by, laws and regulations related to our performance of our government business. These laws and regulations, including requirements to obtain applicable governmental approval, clearances and certain export licenses, may impose additional costs and risks on our business. We may also become subject to audits, reviews and investigations of our compliance with these laws and regulations. See Item 4—“Information on the Company—Regulatory Matters” and Item 8—“Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Leonardo Del Vecchio, our chairman and principal stockholder, controls 67.83% of our voting power and is in a position to affect our ongoing operations, corporate transactions and any matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors and a change in corporate control. As of April 29, 2009, Mr. Leonardo Del Vecchio, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, has the power to vote 314,403,399 Ordinary Shares, or 67.83% of the outstanding Ordinary Shares. See Item 7 — “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” As a result, Mr. Del Vecchio has the ability to exert significant influence over our corporate affairs and to control the outcome of virtually all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of our directors, the amendment of our Articles of Association or By-laws, and the approval of mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other significant corporate transactions. Mr. Del Vecchio’s interests may conflict with or differ from the interests of our other stockholders. In situations involving a conflict of interest between Mr. Del Vecchio and our other stockholders, Mr. Del Vecchio may exercise his control in a manner that would benefit himself to the potential detriment of other stockholders. Mr. Del Vecchio’s significant ownership interest could delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which may be adverse to the interests of our other stockholders. If our procedures designed to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 cause us to identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the trading price of our securities may be adversely impacted. Our annual report on Form 20-F includes a report from our management relating to its evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, as required under Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override and failure of human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce, rather than eliminate, business risks. As a consequence of the systems and procedures we have implemented to comply with these requirements, we may uncover circumstances that we determine, with guidance from our independent auditors, to be material weaknesses, or that otherwise result in disclosable conditions. Although we intend to take prompt measures to remediate any such identified material weaknesses in our internal control structure, measures of this kind may involve significant effort and expense, and any disclosure of such material weaknesses or other disclosable conditions may result in a negative market reaction to our securities. 11 Table of Contents 