Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE OPERATE The recent global economic and financial market crisis may have a negative effect on our business and operations that could adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations. Our sales and profitability are substantially affected by the economic conditions in the United States and in the foreign markets where our products are sold. Economic activity in the United States and throughout much of the world has undergone a sudden, sharp economic downturn following the recent housing downturn and subprime lending collapse in both the United States and Europe. Global credit and capital markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption, and business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Some of our suppliers and customers may face credit issues and could experience cash flow problems and other financial hardships. Suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand or affect our gross margins. We continue to see published reports and hear anecdotally that an increasing number of Americans postponed health care in the weakened economy, which has resulted in a fall-off in the number of elective and non-life threatening surgical procedures. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets or in economic conditions remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. If one or more of our products proves to be defective or is misused by a health care practitioner, we may be subject to claims of liability that could adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations. A defect in the design or manufacture of our products, or a failure of our products to perform for the use that we specify, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injuries and otherwise. Misuse of our product by a practitioner or patient that results in injury could similarly subject us to claims of liability, including claims concerning chondrolysis as described in greater detail below. As we have grown, the number of product liability claims made against us has increased. We currently have in place product liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $50 million for liability losses, including legal defense costs. Any substantial underinsured loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any impairment of our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our sales, revenue and prospects for future business. In this regard, for example, there has been discussion in the orthopedic community over the possibility that the continuous infusion of a local anesthetic into the joint space via an infusion pump may contribute to a condition called chondrolysis. This condition, which to our knowledge has mostly been present after certain shoulder surgeries, may cause the deterioration of the cartilage in the joint months after the surgery. The authors of papers in the relevant medical literature have identified a variety of possible causes of chondrolysis including: thermal capsulorraphy; radiofrequency treatment; prominent hardware; gentian violet; chlorhexidine; methylmethacrylate; intra-articular (within the joint) administration of bupivacaine with epinephrine and intra-articular administration of bupivacaine without epinephrine; but there does not appear to be scientific evidence available yet sufficient to identify the actual cause. It should be noted that these authors have not cited any evidence suggesting the extra-articular (outside the joint) administration of bupivacaine as a possible cause. For shoulder surgeries, we believe most surgeons today are administering bupivacaine extra-articularly or having an anesthesiologist administer a continuous nerve block (e.g., ON-Q C-bloc). We have, to date, been named as a defendant in approximately 63 ongoing lawsuits seeking damages as a result of alleged chondrolysis. Many of these lawsuits name defendants in addition to us such as physicians, drug companies and other device manufacturers. For the policy period beginning June 1, 2008, we have in place product liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $50 million for liability losses, including legal defense costs, excluding shoulder chondrolysis claims for pre-June 1, 2008 surgeries, which are covered under the separate policies described below. For chondrolysis claims made in 2008 through 2013 arising out of pre-June 1, 2008 surgeries, we increased our product liability insurance on a claims-made basis from an aggregate amount of $10 million to 8 Table of Contents $35 million, which includes a $5 million self-insured layer above the original $10 million primary policy and below the additional $20 million in excess policies we purchased. As noted, these policies for pre-June 1, 2008 surgeries will remain in place until 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a total of $14.4 million as certain litigation and insurance charges in the operating expenses, which includes a $3.5 million expense to purchase retroactive insurance policies for pre-June 1, 2008 surgeries to significantly increase our product liability insurance coverage and $10.9 million in estimated loss contingency that we accrued in connection with the ongoing litigation. Events may arise that were not anticipated and the outcome of a contingency may result in an uninsured loss to us that differs from the previously estimated liability, which could result in a material difference from the amount recorded in the current period and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced net losses in prior periods. Future losses are possible. We incurred a net loss of $30.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We had net income of $41.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, which was primarily due to the sale of InfuSystem. We incurred a loss from continuing operations, net of tax, of $9.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. We may not achieve or maintain profitability from operations in the future, and further losses may arise. Further, the sale of InfuSystem may increase losses in the future since that operation had historically enjoyed significant income. We have invested substantial resources into the sales and marketing of the ON-Q PainBuster. If this product does not achieve significant clinical acceptance or if our direct sales strategy is not successful, our financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. Our current strategy assumes that the ON-Q PainBuster will be used in a significant number of surgical cases, ultimately becoming the standard of care for many common procedures. We have invested, and continue to invest, a substantial portion of our resources to establish and maintain a direct sales force to sell and market ON-Q. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we invested approximately $72.0 million and $70.8 million, respectively, in the sales and marketing of ON-Q. A failure of ON-Q to achieve and maintain a significant market presence, or the failure to successfully implement our direct sales strategy, will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We recently acquired AcryMed in an effort to expand our strategic focus to include general surgical site care management. If we are unsuccessful in integrating AcryMed’s operations with our own, or if we fail to successfully develop and commercialize AcryMed’s technologies, our results of operations may be adversely affected. On February 15, 2008, we completed the acquisition of Oregon-based AcryMed for approximately $26.7 million in cash. We will need to successfully integrate AcryMed’s operations with our own, including the need to retain and motivate AcryMed’s key executives and scientific staff. In addition, we will be seeking to further develop and commercialize AcryMed’s infection control and wound healing technologies and broaden our strategic focus to include general surgical site care management. Difficulties in achieving this integration or expanding our strategic plans, including the development of new technologies and sales of new products through our direct sales force, could adversely impact our management’s focus as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Our products are highly regulated by a number of governmental agencies, and we have experienced product recalls and recently received a warning letter from the FDA. Any changes to the existing rules and regulations of these agencies may also adversely impact our ability to manufacture and market our products. Our activities are regulated by the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Under the Act, we are required, among other matters, to register our facilities and to list our devices with the FDA, to file notice of our intent to market certain new products under Section 510(k) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, to track the location of certain of our products, and to report any incidents of death or serious injury relating to our products. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, or if the FDA subsequently disagrees with the manner in which we sought to comply with these 9 Table of Contents regulations, we could be subjected to substantial civil and criminal penalties and a recall, seizure or injunction with respect to the manufacture or sale of our products. Each state also has similar regulations. For example, in California, we are subject to annual production-site inspections in order to maintain our manufacturing license. State regulations also specify standards for the storage and handling of certain chemicals and disposal of their wastes. We are also required to comply with federal, state and local environmental laws. Our failure to comply with any of these laws could expose us to material liabilities. We initiated four voluntary product recalls in 2008. Product recalls in 2008 involved an incorrect fill port label on the pump, a wrong pump size in the sterile pack, a wrong pump model in the product box and a breach in the sterile pouch of the finished sterile syringe. There were no issues found with the I-Flow Infusion Pump. All issues were isolated to specific lots that were shipped. The regulatory actions for three of the 2008 recalls have been completed and the FDA was notified. One recall in 2008 remains open. In addition, we received a warning letter from the FDA on December 22, 2008 citing various issues generally concerning the documentation of our quality procedures and processes. On January 16, 2009, we formally responded to the FDA and intend to fully cooperate with the FDA to address their observations. Although we have not to date been assessed any fines, penalties or interest related to the matters addressed in the warning letter and the FDA has not issued a suspension or restriction on the sale of any of our products, no assurances can be given as to future FDA actions on this matter. We believe that the impact of the four product recalls and the warning letter did not have a material impact to our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that future recalls or the impact of this or future warning letters will not have a material adverse impact. Products intended for export are subject to additional regulations, including compliance with ISO 13485. We first received ISO 13485 certification in July 2000, which indicates that our products meet specified uniform standards of quality and testing. In 2005, we achieved ISO 13485 certification under the 2003 revision of the standard. We have also been granted permission to use the CE mark on our products, which reflects approval of our products for export into the 28 member countries of the European Community. The certification and permission to use the CE mark on our products also apply to the Block Medical operations, including its Mexico facility. Failure to comply with these additional regulations could result in our inability to export products to the European Community. Furthermore, federal, state, local or foreign governments may enact new laws, rules and regulations that may adversely impact our ability to manufacture and market our products by, for example, increasing our costs. Any impairment of our ability to market our infusion devices or other products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our compliance with laws frequently involves our subjective judgment. If we are wrong in any of our interpretations of the laws, we could be subjected to substantial penalties for noncompliance. In the ordinary course of business, management frequently makes subjective judgments with respect to complying with the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as well as other applicable state, local and foreign laws. If any of the applicable regulatory agencies disagrees with our interpretation of, or objects to the manner in which we have attempted to comply with, the applicable law, we could be subjected to substantial civil and criminal penalties and a recall, seizure or injunction with respect to the manufacture or sale of our products. These types of actions against us or our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers frequently receive reimbursement from private insurers and governmental agencies. Any change in the overall reimbursement system may adversely impact our business. The health care reimbursement system is in a constant state of change. Changes often create financial incentives and disincentives that encourage or discourage the use of a particular type of product, therapy or clinical procedure. Market acceptance and sales of our products may be adversely affected by changes or trends within the reimbursement system. Changes to the health care system that favor technologies other than ours or that reduce reimbursements to providers or treatment facilities that use our products may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. 10 Table of Contents Hospitals, alternate care site providers and physicians are heavily dependent on payment for their services by private insurers and governmental agencies. Changes in the reimbursement system could adversely affect our participation in the industry. Our ON-Q products fall into the general category of infusion devices and related disposable products with regard to reimbursement issues. The majority of reimbursements are not paid directly to us. Rather, health care providers will often request that their patients’ health insurance providers provide them with some form of reimbursement for the disposables that are consumed in the patients’ therapy. We believe that the current trend in the insurance industry (both private and governmental) has been to eliminate cost-based reimbursement and to move towards fixed or limited fees for service, thereby encouraging health care providers to use the lowest cost method of delivering medications. This trend may discourage the use of our products, create downward pressure on our average prices, and, ultimately, negatively affect our revenues. Our industry is intensely competitive and changes rapidly. If we are unable to maintain a technological lead over our competitors, our business operations will suffer. The drug infusion industry is highly competitive. We compete in this industry primarily based on product differentiation and performance, service and price. Some of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do for research and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales. As a result, they may be better able to compete for market share, even in areas in which our products may be superior. We continue our efforts to introduce clinically effective, cost-efficient products into the market, but the industry is subject to technological changes and we may not be able to maintain any existing technological advantage long enough to establish our products and to achieve or sustain profitability. If we are unable to effectively compete in our market, our financial condition and results of operations will materially suffer. We rely on independent suppliers for parts and materials necessary to assemble our products. Any delay or disruption in the supply of parts may prevent us from manufacturing our products and negatively impact our operations. Although we perform final assembly and testing of our completed infusion systems, certain component parts, as well as molded products, are obtained from outside vendors based on our specifications. The loss or breakdown of our relationships with these outside vendors could subject us to substantial delays in the delivery of our products to customers. Significant delays in the delivery of our products could result in possible cancellation of orders and the loss of customers. Furthermore, we have numerous suppliers of components and materials that are sole-source suppliers. Because these suppliers are the only vendors with which we have a relationship for that particular component or material, we may be unable to produce and sell products if one of these suppliers becomes unwilling or unable to deliver components or materials meeting our specifications. Our inability to manufacture and sell products to meet delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. We manufacture the majority of our products in Mexico. Any difficulties or disruptions in the operation of our plant may adversely impact our operations. The majority of our products are manufactured and assembled by our Block Medical subsidiary. We may encounter difficulties as a result of the uncertainties inherent in doing business in a foreign country, including economic, political and regulatory uncertainties. If there are difficulties or problems in our Mexico facility, or other disruptions in our production and delivery process affecting product availability, these difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our proprietary technology and the patents, copyrights and trademarks that protect our products. If competitors are able to independently develop products of equivalent or superior capabilities, the results of our operations could be adversely impacted. We rely substantially on proprietary technology and capabilities. We have filed patent applications in the United States for substantially all of our products. We have also filed for intellectual property rights protection in all foreign countries for products from which we expect significant revenue. As of December 31, 2008, we held approximately 11 Table of Contents 270 patents, including approximately 60 United States patents and approximately 210 foreign patents. Our patents generally expire between 2009 and 2025. Significant patents on our elastomeric balloon pump expire in 2012. Patents protecting the Soaker Catheter expire in 2019 and 2020. Without sufficient intellectual property protection, our competitors may be able to sell products identical to ours and cause a downward pressure on the selling price of our products. There can be no assurance that pending patent or trademark applications will be approved or that any patents will provide competitive advantages for our products or will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors. Our competitors may also independently develop products with equivalent or superior capabilities or otherwise obtain access to our capabilities. In addition, we are currently involved in and may become involved in additional future litigation involving our proprietary technology, such as patent or copyright infringement actions. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings — Other Litigation.” Any negative outcome from such proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales is to customers in foreign countries. We may lose revenues, market share and profits due to exchange rate fluctuations and other factors related to our foreign business. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, sales to customers in foreign countries comprised approximately 12% and 13% of our revenues from continuing operations, respectively. Our foreign business is subject to economic, political and regulatory uncertainties and risks that are unique to each area of the world. Fluctuations in exchange rates may also affect the prices that our foreign customers are willing to pay and may put us at a price disadvantage compared to other competitors. Potentially volatile shifts in exchange rates may negatively affect our financial condition and operations. Our stockholders’ equity may also be adversely affected by unfavorable translation adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates from period to period. In addition, we have not and currently do not hedge or enter into derivative contracts in an effort to address foreign exchange risk. We currently rely on two distributors for a significant percentage of our sales. If our relationship with these distributors were to deteriorate, our sales may materially decline. For the year ended December 31, 2008, sales to B. Braun Medical S.A. and B. Braun Medical Inc. accounted for 6% and 8% of the Company’s total revenues from continuing operations, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, sales to B. Braun Medical S.A. and B. Braun Medical Inc. accounted for 7% and 8% of the Company’s total revenues from continuing operations, respectively. Any deterioration in our relationship with B. Braun Medical S.A. or B. Braun Medical Inc. could cause a material decline in our overall sales and a material adverse effect on our business. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our operations. We may be unable to raise funds when needed or on acceptable terms. As of December 31, 2008, we had in our continuing operations cash and equivalents of $39.3 million, short-term investments of $9.1 million and net accounts receivable of $21.9 million. We believe our current funds, together with possible borrowings on our existing lines of credit and other bank loans, are sufficient to provide for our projected needs to maintain operations for at least the next 12 months. This estimate, however, is based on assumptions that may prove to be wrong. If our assumptions are wrong or if we experience further losses, we may be required to reduce our operations or seek additional financing. Furthermore, financing may not be available when needed and may not be on terms acceptable to us. Additional financings may be dilutive to stockholders, involve the issuance of securities that are more senior to our stock or impose operational restrictions. Any additional equity financings may be dilutive to our existing stockholders and involve the issuance of securities that may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. A debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants on our business that could limit our operational and financial flexibility, 12 Table of Contents and the amount of debt incurred could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns or operational difficulties and limit our ability to compete. The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that may ultimately prove to be incorrect. The accounting estimates and judgments that management must make in the ordinary course of business affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. If the underlying estimates are ultimately proven to be incorrect, subsequent adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period or periods in which the change is identified. Additionally, subsequent adjustments from errors could require us to restate our financial statements. Restating financial statements could result in a material decline in the price of our stock. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by recording impairment losses or incurring capital losses on stock sales in connection with our ownership of HAPC common stock. In October 2007, we purchased approximately 2.8 million shares of common stock of InfuSystem Holdings, Inc. (formerly known as HAPC, Inc.) (“HAPC common stock”), at $5.97 per share through private transactions with third parties totaling approximately $17 million in connection with the then-pending sale of InfuSystem. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (“SFAS 115”), we must periodically determine whether a decline in fair value of HAPC common stock below our cost basis is other-than-temporary. If the decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary, the cost basis of the individual security is to be written down to fair value and the amount of the write-down is to be included in earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recognized other-than-temporary impairments of $4.6 million and $6.1 million on our HAPC common stock, respectively. We continue to hold approximately 2.8 million shares of HAPC common stock. If the fair value of HAPC common stock declines further and the decline is determined to be other-than-temporary, or if we sell shares of HAPC common stock at lower than our current cost basis, any resulting impairment charges under SFAS 115 or capital loss on sale of the shares would have an adverse effect on our net income or increase our net losses. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, requires that we test goodwill and other intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis, or on an interim basis if certain events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value or if the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives falls below their carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sales or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors such as a decline in our market value below our book value for an extended period of time. In addition, under SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, long-lived assets with finite lives are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant decrease in the fair value of a long-lived asset, an adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition or an expectation that a long-lived asset will be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated life are among several of the factors that could result in an impairment charge. Further, in connection with the sale of InfuSystem to HAPC, we received a secured promissory note with an original principal amount of $32.7 million from HAPC. As of December 31, 2008, the balance on the secured promissory note is approximately $30.3 million. The secured promissory note matures four years from the closing date of October 25, 2007 and is secured by all assets of HAPC. SFAS No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan, an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 15 (“FAS No. 114”), requires us to record an impairment on the note if, based on current information and events, it is probable that a creditor will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. During 2008, general economic and stock market conditions worsened considerably resulting in material adverse declines in stock prices. Our stock price declined significantly during this period. During the fourth quarter of 2008, 13 Table of Contents our market capitalization fell below the recorded book value. We considered this a triggering event and, as a result, performed impairment testing on our goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets with finite lives. Based on the results of the impairment testing, we recorded an impairment charge of $380,000 on our developed technology intangible asset. No impairment was identified for our goodwill or other long-lived assets, including the HAPC secured promissory note. If the current economic and market condition persist and if there is a prolonged period of weakness in the business environment, our business may be adversely affected, which could result in future impairment charges and adverse effects on reported financial results for the period in which the charges are taken. In addition, if HAPC’s is unable to service the secured promissory note in the future, we may have to record future impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in all annual reports. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and to report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management evaluated our internal control over financial reporting in order to comply with Section 404 and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2004. Our independent registered public accounting firm also expressed an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2004. If we fail to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in the future, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we cannot provide assurance that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain a system of effective internal control over financial reporting, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. RISK FACTORS RELATED SPECIFICALLY TO OUR COMMON STOCK The average trading volume for our common stock is relatively low when compared to most larger companies. As a result, there may be less liquidity and more volatility associated with our common stock, even if our business is doing well. Our common stock has been traded publicly since February 13, 1990, and since then has had only a few market makers. The average daily trading volume for our shares during the three months ended December 31, 2008 was approximately 170,000 shares. There can be no assurance that a more active or established trading market for our common stock will develop or, if developed, will be maintained. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Market prices for securities of biotechnology and medical device companies, including ours, have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that appear unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors, among others, can have a significant effect on the market price of our securities: • announcements of technological innovations, new products or clinical studies by us or others; • government regulation; • changes in the coverage or reimbursement rates of private insurers and governmental agencies; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by existing stockholders or by us; and • comments by securities analysts and general market conditions. 14 Table of Contents The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could also have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders or holders of awards under our equity incentive plans could negatively affect the market price of our stock and make it more difficult for us to sell stock in the future. Sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to complete future equity financings. A substantial number of shares of our common stock and shares of common stock subject to outstanding options and warrants may be resold pursuant to currently effective registration statements. As of December 31, 2008, there were: • 24,016,875 shares of common stock that are freely tradable in the public markets; • 517,315 shares of restricted stock that are subject to outstanding awards under our 2001 Equity Incentive Plan; and • an aggregate of 2,676,896 shares of common stock that are subject to outstanding awards under our various equity incentive plans, including shares of restricted stock units and stock options. We cannot estimate the number of shares of common stock that may actually be resold in the public market because this will depend on the market price for our common stock, the individual circumstances of the sellers and other factors. If stockholders sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Anti-takeover devices may prevent a sale, or changes in the management, of I-Flow. We have in place several anti-takeover devices, including a stockholder rights plan, that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a sale, or changes in the management, of I-Flow. For example, one anti-takeover device provides for a board of directors that is separated into three classes, with their terms in office staggered over three year periods. This has the effect of delaying a change in control of the board of directors without the cooperation of the incumbent board. In addition, our bylaws do not allow stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders or act by written consent, and also require stockholders to give written notice of any proposal or director nomination to us within a specified period of time prior to any stockholder meeting. We may also issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and on terms that our board of directors may determine in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding stock, and the holders of such preferred stock could have voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. We do not pay dividends and this may negatively affect the price of our stock. We have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The future price of our common stock may be adversely impacted because we do not pay dividends. In the future, our common stock may be removed from listing on the Nasdaq Global Market and may not qualify for listing on any stock exchange, in which case it may be difficult to find a market in our stock. If our common stock is no longer traded on a national trading market, it may be more difficult for stockholders to sell their shares, and the price of our common stock would likely be negatively affected. Currently, our common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Market. Nasdaq has a number of continued listing requirements, including a minimum trading price requirement. Failure to comply with any Nasdaq continued listing requirement could cause our common stock to be removed from listing. Should this occur, we may not be able to secure listing on other exchanges or quotation systems, and this would have a material adverse effect on the price and liquidity of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 15 Table of Contents 