ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in United’s common stock involves risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference before deciding to purchase common stock. It is possible that risks and uncertainties not listed below may arise or become material in the future and affect United’s business. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally and there can be no assurance that recent efforts to address difficult market and economic conditions will be effective. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial markets and economic conditions generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all residential construction, particularly in metro Atlanta, and residential mortgages as property prices declined rapidly and affected nearly all asset classes. The effect of the market and economic downturn also spread to other areas of the credit markets and in the availability of liquidity. The magnitude of these declines led to a crisis of confidence in the financial sector as a result of concerns about the capital base and viability of certain financial institutions. During this period, interbank lending and commercial paper borrowing fell sharply, precipitating a credit freeze for both institutional and individual borrowers. Unemployment has also increased significantly. The recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 were signed into law in response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system, financial markets and economic conditions generally. Pursuant to the EESA, Treasury has the authority under the Troubled Asset Relief Program to purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program under TARP pursuant to which it has purchased and will continue to purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions. The ARRA includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. In addition, ARRA imposes certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients until the institution has repaid Treasury, which is now permitted under ARRA without penalty and without the need to raise new capital, subject to Treasury’s consultation with the recipient’s appropriate regulatory agency. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the U.S. Congress, Federal Reserve Board, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current crisis, including most recently the ARRA. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that EESA, including TARP and the CPP, the ARRA, and the other initiatives described above will have on the banking system and financial markets or on us. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the banking system and financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. United’s ability to raise capital could be limited and could affect its liquidity and could be dilutive to existing shareholders. Current conditions in the capital markets are such that traditional sources of capital may not be available to United on reasonable terms if it needed to raise capital. In such case, there is no guarantee that United will be able to borrow funds or successfully raise additional capital at all or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing shareholders. Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be substantially affected in a negative fashion by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity or regulatory authorities take significant action against us, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of Treasury’s equity investment in us. Under the terms of the CPP, until the earlier of December 5, 2011 or the date on which the Series B Preferred Stock has been redeemed in whole or Treasury has transferred all of the Series B Preferred Stock to third parties, we are prohibited from increasing dividends on our common stock from the last quarterly cash dividend per share ($.09) declared on the common stock prior to December 5, 2008, as adjusted for subsequent stock dividends and other similar actions, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without Treasury’s consent. Furthermore, as long as the Series B Preferred Stock is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. 12 The limitations on executive compensation imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may restrict our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of our participation in the CPP, we agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. Subsequent to the issuance of the preferred stock, the ARRA was enacted, which provides more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses. To the extent that any of these compensation restrictions do not permit us to provide a comprehensive compensation package to our key employees that is competitive in our market area, we have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating our key employees, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The terms governing the issuance of the preferred stock to Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The terms of the Purchase Agreement in which we entered into with Treasury provides that Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the Purchase Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal law that may occur in the future. We have no assurances that changes in the terms of the transaction will not occur in the future. Such changes may place restrictions on our business or results of operation, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Past operating results may not be indicative of future operating results. United may not be able to sustain its growth. Various factors, such as increased size, economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, competition and the ability to find and retain people that can make United’s community-focused operating model successful, may impede its ability to expand its market presence. If United experiences a significant decrease in its growth rate, its results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. United’s business is subject to the success of the local economies and real estate markets in which it operates. United’s success significantly depends on the growth in population, income levels, loans and deposits and on the continued stability in real estate values in its markets. If the communities in which it operates do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, United’s business may be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions in United’s specific market areas, specifically decreases in real estate property values due to the nature of United’s loan portfolio, approximately 90% of which is secured by real estate, could reduce United’s growth rate, affect the ability of customers to repay their loans and generally affect United’s financial condition and results of operations. United is less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of more diverse economies. United’s concentration of residential construction loans is subject to unique risks that could adversely affect earnings. United’s residential construction loan portfolio was $1.5 billion at December 31, 2008, comprising 26% of total loans. Residential construction loans are often riskier than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans to individuals. In the event of a general economic slowdown like the one we are currently experiencing, these loans represent higher risk due to slower sales and reduced cash flow that could affect the borrowers’ ability to repay on a timely basis. United may face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions. United regularly engages in de novo branch expansion. Also, when a business opportunity becomes available in the right market with the right management team, United may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. These involve a number of risks, including: • the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to an acquired branch or institution, a new branch office or a new market; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers of an acquired branch or institution. 13 Changes in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect net income and the value of United’s assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect the level of net interest revenue, the primary component of net income. In a period of changing interest rates, interest expense may increase at different rates than the interest earned on assets. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease net interest revenue. At December 31, 2008, our simulation model indicated that a 200 basis point increase in rates over the next twelve months would cause an approximate 3.8% increase in net interest revenue and a 25 basis point decrease in rates over the next twelve months would cause an approximate 2.2% decrease in net interest revenue. United used 25 basis points in the down rate scenario since the targeted Federal Funds rate was at 25 basis points and therefore short-term rates could not move down more than 25 basis points. Changes in the level of interest rates may also negatively affect the value of United’s assets and its ability to realize gains or avoid losses from the sale of those assets, all of which ultimately affect earnings. In addition, an increase in interest rates may decrease the demand for loans. If United’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, earnings would decrease. United’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. United may experience significant loan losses which would have a material adverse effect on operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. United maintains an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses inherent in the portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, management relies on an analysis of the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and real estate values, trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. If those assumptions are incorrect, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in the loan portfolio. United may be subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent conduct of our loan customers, third party service providers and employees. When we make loans to individuals or entities, we rely upon information supplied by borrowers and other third parties, including information contained in the applicant’s loan application, property appraisal reports, title information and the borrower’s net worth, liquidity and cash flow information. While we attempt to verify information provided through available sources, we cannot be certain all such information is correct or complete. Our reliance on incorrect or incomplete information could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect United’s profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and United experiences competition in each of its markets from many other financial institutions. United competes with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as community, super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in its market areas and elsewhere. United competes with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. Many of United’s competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions that are able to operate profitably with a narrower net interest margin and have a more diverse revenue base. United may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of its smaller size, more limited geographic diversification and inability to spread costs across broader markets. Although United competes by concentrating marketing efforts in primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, there can be no assurance that this strategy will continue to be successful. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There are no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding United’s periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. ITEM 