ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in United’s common stock involves risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference before deciding to purchase common stock. It is possible that risks and uncertainties not listed below may arise or become material in the future and affect United’s business. Completion of the Private Placement is subject to various closing conditions which may not be satisfied. Completion of the Private Placement is subject to various conditions to closing, many of which are outside of our control, and may not be satisfied. We cannot assure you that all conditions will be satisfied timely or at all. A failure to consummate the Private Placement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our ability to avoid additional, heightened enforcement actions and our ability to raise capital in the future. If the Private Placement is completed, our existing shareholders’ interests will be substantially diluted and the market price of our common stock may fall. As described above, we expect to complete the Private Placement, assuming the satisfaction of the remaining conditions. Because a large number of common shares is contemplated to be issued in the Private Placement at a price that is significantly less than our tangible book value, the ownership interest of existing shareholders and our earnings per share will be substantially diluted and the market price of our common stock may fall. We may suffer substantial additional dilution due to our agreements to indemnify investors in the Private Placement if we experienced an ownership change at or prior to closing. In our agreements with the investors in the Private Placement, we agreed to indemnify the investors if we experienced an ownership change under Section 382 at or prior to closing. In such case, we will be required to issue 48 million additional shares of non-voting common stock at no additional cost. As a result, if such indemnity is triggered, the ownership interest of existing shareholders and our earnings per share will be further diluted and the market price of our common stock may decline. Assuming the completion of the Private Placement, subsequent resales of our common shares in the public market may cause the market price of our common shares to fall. We plan to issue a large number of common shares to the investors in the Private Placement. The investors in the Private Placement will have certain registration rights with respect to the common shares held by them. The market value of our common shares could decline as a result of sales by the investors from time to time of a substantial amount of the common shares held by them. Assuming the completion of the Private Placement, the lead investor will become a substantial holder of our common shares. Assuming the completion of the Private Placement and the conversion of the preferred stock issued in connection with the Private Placement, the lead investor will become holder of approximately 9.9% of our outstanding voting common shares and 22.5% of total common stock and non-voting common stock and will have a representative on our Board of Directors. Although it has entered into certain passivity agreements with the Federal Reserve in connection with their proposed investments in us, the lead investor ma y have an influence over our corporate policy and business strategy. In addition, it will have pre-emptive rights to maintain it percentage ownership of our common shares in the event of certain issuances of securities by us. Enforcement actions could have a material negative effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations or the value of our common stock. Pursuant to the Board Resolution, United has agreed to not incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends, make payments on our trust preferred securities or repurchase outstanding stock without prior regulatory approval. The MOU requires, among other things, that the Bank maintain its Tier 1 leverage ratio at not less than 8% and its total risk-based capital ratio at not less than 10% during the life of the MOU and that, prior to declaring or paying any cash dividends to United, the Bank must obtain the written consent of its regulators. As of December 31, 2010, the Bank’s Tier 1 leverage ratio was below the target level of 8%. If we are unable reduce our classified assets, complete the Private Placement or raise additional capital, comply with the Board Resolution or regain compliance under the MOU, then we could become subject to additional, heightened enforcement actions and orders, possibly including cease and desist or consent orders, written agreements and/or other regulatory enforcement actions. If our regulators were to take such additional enforcement actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both. The terms of any such enforcement action could have a material negative effect on ou r business, operations, financial condition, results of operations or the value of our common stock. 15 As a financial services company, adverse conditions in the general business or economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Continued weakness or adverse changes in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the markets in which we operate could adversely impact our business, including causing one or more of the following negative developments: ● a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; ● a decrease in the value of our loans secured by consumer or commercial real estate; ● an impairment of our assets, such as our deferred tax assets; or ● an increase in the number of customers or other counterparties who default on their loans or other obligations to us, which could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for loan losses. For example, if we are unable to continue to generate, or demonstrate that we can continue to generate, sufficient taxable income in the near future, then we may not be able to fully realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets and may be required to recognize a valuation allowance, similar to an impairment of those assets, if it is more-likely-than-not that some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. Such a development or one or more other negative developments resulting from adverse conditions in the general business or economic environment, some of which are described above, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred significant operating losses and the timing of profitability is uncertain. We incurred a net operating loss from continuing operations of $143 million, or $1.62 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2010; $139 million, or $2.47 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2009; and $63.9 million, or $1.36 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2008, in each case due primarily to credit losses and associated costs, including significant provisions for loan losses. Although we have taken a significant number of steps to reduce our credit exposure, we will likely continue to have a higher than normal level of nonperforming assets and substantial charge-offs in 2011, which would continue to adversely impact our overall financial condition and results of operations. The results of our most recent internal credit stress test may not accurately predict the impact on our financial condition if the economy were to continue to deteriorate. We regularly perform an internal analysis of our capital position. Our analysis is based on the tests that were administered to the nation’s nineteen largest banks by Treasury in connection with its Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”). Under the stress test, we apply many of the same methodologies but less severe loss assumptions than Treasury applies in its program to estimate our loan losses (loan charge-offs), resources available to absorb those losses and any necessary additions to capital that would be required under the “more adverse” stress test scenario. As a result, our estimates for loan losses are lower than those suggested by the SCAP assumptions. We have also calculated our loss estimates based on the SCAP test, and while we believe we have appropriately applied Treasury’s assumptions in performing this internal stress test, results of this test may not be comparable to the results of stress tests performed and publicly released by Treasury, and the results of this test may not be the same as if the test had been performed by Treasury. The results of these stress tests involve many assumptions about the economy and future loan losses and default rates, and may not accurately reflect the impact on our financial condition if the economy does not improve or continues to deteriorate. Any continued deterioration of the economy could result in credit losses significantly higher, with a corresponding impact on our financial condition and capital, than those predicted by our internal stress test. Our industry and business have been adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally and recent efforts to address difficult market and economic conditions may not be effective. Since mid-2007, the financial markets and economic conditions generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all residential construction, particularly in metro Atlanta and north and coastal Georgia, and residential mortgages as property prices declined rapidly and affected nearly all asset classes. The effect of the market and economic downturn also spread to other areas of the credit markets and in the availability of liquidity. The magnitude of these declines led to a crisis of confidence in the financial sector as a result of concerns about the capital base and viability of certain financial institutions. These decline s have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with other financial institutions and, in some cases, to fail. In addition, customer delinquencies, foreclosures and unemployment have also increased significantly. 16 The current economic pressure on consumers and businesses and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations and may continue to result in credit losses and write-downs in the future. The failure of government programs and other efforts to help stabilize the banking system and financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Our ability to raise additional capital could be limited and could affect our liquidity and could be dilutive to existing shareholders. Whether or not we close the Private Placement, we may be required or choose to raise additional capital, including for strategic, regulatory or other reasons. Current conditions in the capital markets are such that traditional sources of capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms if we needed to raise additional capital. In such case, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully raise additional capital at all or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing shareholders. Capital resources and liquidity are essential to our businesses and could be negatively impacted by disruptions in our ability to access other sources of funding. Capital resources and liquidity are essential to our businesses. We depend on access to a variety of sources of funding to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. Sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity and funding management strategy, include traditional and brokered deposits, inter-bank borrowings, Federal Funds purchased and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. We also raise funds from time to time in the form of either short-or long-term borrowings or equity issuances. Our capital resources and liquidity could be negatively impacted by disruptions in our ability to access these sources of funding. With increased concerns about bank failures, traditional deposit customers are increasingly concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from our subsidiary bank in an effort to ensure that the amount that they have on deposit is fully insured. In addition, the cost of brokered and other out-of-market deposits and potential future regulatory limits on the interest rate we pay for brokered deposits could make them unattractive sources of funding. Further, factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to access other sources of funds. Other financial institutions may be unwilling to extend credit to banks because of concerns about the banking industry and the economy generally and, given recent downturns in the economy, there may not be a viable market for raising short or long-term debt or equity capital. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity or regulatory authorities take significant action against us, among other reasons. Among other things, if we fail to remain “well-capitalized” for bank regulatory purposes, because we do not qualify under the minimum capital standards or the FDIC otherwise downgrades our capital category, it could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common stock, and our ability to make acquisitions, and we would not be able to accept brokered deposits without prior FDIC approval. To be “well-capitalized,” a bank must generally maintain a leverage capital ratio of at least 5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%. In addition, our regulators require us to maintain higher capital levels. For example, regulators frequently require financial institutions with high levels of classified assets to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 8% and our MOU currently requires us to maintain an 8% leverage ratio. Our failure to remain “well-capitalized” or to maintain any higher capital requirements imposed on us could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, generally. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the cost and availability of funding due to changes in the deposit market and credit market, or the way in which we are perceived in such markets, may adversely affect financial condition or results of operations. In general, the amount, type and cost of our funding, including from other financial institutions, the capital markets and deposits, directly impacts our operating costs and our assets growth and therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, our operating losses, our ability to remain “well capitalized,” events that adversely impact our reputation, enforcement actions, disruptions in the capital markets, events that adversely impact the financial services industry, changes affecting our assets, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments. Also, we compete for fundin g with other financial institutions, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources than we do. In addition, as some of these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, their competitive advantages may increase. Competition from these institutions may also increase the cost of funds. 17 Our business is subject to the success of the local economies and real estate markets in which we operate. Our success significantly depends on the growth in population, income levels, loans and deposits and on stability in real estate values in our markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally do not improve significantly, our business may be adversely affected. Since mid-2007, the financial markets and economic conditions generally have experienced a variety of difficulties. In particular, the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets in the Atlanta market have experienced substantial deterioration. If market and economic conditions continue to deteriorate or remain at their current level of deterioration for a sustained period of time, such conditions may lead to additional valuation adjustments as we continue to reassess the market val ue of our loan portfolio, greater losses on defaulted loans and on the sale of other real estate owned. Additionally, such adverse economic conditions in our market areas, specifically decreases in real estate property values due to the nature of our loan portfolio, more than 85% of which is secured by real estate, could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of more diverse economies. Our concentration of residential construction and development loans is subject to unique risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our residential construction and development loan portfolio was $695 million at December 31, 2010, comprising 15% of total loans. Residential construction and development loans are often riskier than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans to individuals. Poor economic conditions have resulted in decreased demand for residential housing, which, in turn, has adversely affected the development and construction efforts of residential real estate developer borrowers. Consequently, economic downturns like the current one impacting our market areas adversely affect the ability of residential real estate developer borrowers to repay these loans and the value of property used as collateral for such loans. A sustained weak economy could also result in higher levels of nonperforming loans in other categories, such as commercial and industrial loans, which may result in additional losses. Because of the general economic slowdown we are currently experiencing, these loans represent higher risk due to slower sales and reduced cash flow that affect the borrowers’ ability to repay on a timely basis and could result in a sharp increase in our total net-charge offs and could require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our concentration of commercial real estate loans is subject to risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our commercial real estate loan portfolio was $1.76 billion at December 31, 2010, comprising 38% of total loans. Commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances than compared to residential mortgage loans, but are still granular in nature with the average loan size of $447,000. The repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is dependent upon both the successful operation of the commercial project and the business operated out of that commercial real estate site, as over half of the commercial real estate loans are for borrower-owned sites. If the cash flows from the project are reduced or if the borrower’s business is not successful, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. In addition, many economists believe that deterioration in income producing commercial real estate is likely to worsen as vacancy rates continue to rise and absorption rates of existing square footage and/or units continue to decline. Because of the general economic slowdown we are currently experiencing, these loans represent higher risk and could result in an increase in our total net-charge offs and could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect net income and the value of our assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect the level of net interest revenue, the primary component of our net income. Federal Reserve Board policies, including interest rate policies, determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest revenue. In a period of changing interest rates, interest expense may increase at different rates than the interest earned on assets. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease net interest revenue. Changes in the interest rates may negatively affect the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains or avoid losses from the sale of those assets, all of which also ultimately affect earnings. In addition, an increase in i nterest rates may decrease the demand for loans. 18 United’s reported financial results depend on the accounting and reporting policies of United, the application of which requires significant assumptions, estimates and judgments. United’s accounting and reporting policies are fundamental to the methods by which it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. United’s management must make significant assumptions and estimates and exercise significant judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting and reporting policies so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report United’s financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select a policy from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, which may result in United reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting United’s financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective and complex assumptions, estimates judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies relate to the allowance for loan losses; fair value measurement, intangible assets and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of assumptions and estimates involved in these matters, United may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; significantly decrea se the carrying value of loans, foreclosed property or other assets or liabilities to reflect a reduction in their fair value; recognize significant impairment on intangible asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued taxes liability or decrease the value of our deferred tax assets. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, earnings would decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses inherent in the loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, our management relies on an analysis of the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and real esta te values, trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. As a result of these considerations, we have from time to time increased our allowance for loan losses. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded an operating provision for loan losses of $235 million compared to $310 million and $184 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. If those assumptions are incorrect, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in the loan portfolio. We may be subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent conduct of our loan customers, third party service providers and employees. When we make loans to individuals or entities, we rely upon information supplied by borrowers and other third parties, including information contained in the applicant’s loan application, property appraisal reports, title information and the borrower’s net worth, liquidity and cash flow information. While we attempt to verify information provided through available sources, we cannot be certain all such information is correct or complete. Our reliance on incorrect or incomplete information could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as community, super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions that are able to operate profitably with a narrower net interest margin and have a more diverse revenue base. We may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, more limited geographic diversification and inability to spread costs across broader markets. Although we compete by concentrating marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products and our strategy may or may not continue to be successful. The terms governing the issuance of the preferred stock to Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The terms of the Purchase Agreement provide that Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the Purchase Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal law that may occur in the future. We have no control over any change in the terms of the transaction that may occur in the future. Such changes may place restrictions on our business or results of operation, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 19 We may face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions. We may engage in de novo branch expansion and, if the appropriate business opportunity becomes available, we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions, including in FDIC-assisted transactions. These involve a number of risks, including: ● the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to an acquired branch or institution, a new branch office or a new market; ● the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; ● the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on results of operations; ● the loss of key employees and customers of an acquired branch or institution; ● the difficulty or failure to successfully integrate the acquired financial institution or portion of the institution; and ● the temporary disruption of our business or the business of the acquired institution. Changes in laws and regulations or failures to comply with such laws and regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We and our subsidiary bank are heavily regulated by federal and state authorities. This regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, but not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory authorities continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. While we cannot predict the regulatory changes that may be borne out of the current economic cri sis, and we cannot predict whether we will become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny by any of these regulatory agencies, any regulatory changes or scrutiny could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and other institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Federal and state regulators have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, violations of laws, rules or regulations with which we or our subsidiaries must comply, or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Such enforcement may be formal or informal and can include directors’ resolutions, memoranda of understanding, cease and desist or consent orders, civil money penalties and termination of deposit insurance and bank closures. Enforcement actions may be taken regardless of the capital level of the institution. In particular, institutions that are not sufficiently capitalized in accordance with regulatory standards may also face capital directives or prompt correct ive action. Enforcement actions may require certain corrective steps (including staff additions or changes), impose limits on activities (such as lending, deposit taking, acquisitions or branching), prescribe lending parameters (such as loan types, volumes and terms) and require additional capital to be raised, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The imposition of regulatory sanctions, including monetary penalties, may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations, and damage to our reputation, and loss of our holding company status. In addition, compliance with any such action could distract management’s attention from our operations, cause us to incur significant expenses, restrict us from engaging in potentially profitable activities, and limit our ability to raise capital. A bank closure would result in a total loss of your investment. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine transactions, including for example funding transactions, could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions with which we do business, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be sold at pri ces that are sufficient for us to recover the full amount of our exposure. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 20 The FDIC has imposed a special assessment on all FDIC-insured institutions, which decreased our earnings in 2009, and future special assessments could adversely affect our earnings in future periods. In May 2009, the FDIC announced that it had voted to levy a special assessment on insured institutions in order to facilitate the rebuilding of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The assessment was equal to five basis points of our subsidiary bank’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. This additional charge of $3.8 million increased operating expenses during the second quarter of 2009. The FDIC has indicated that future special assessments are possible, although it has not determined the magnitude or timing of any future assessments. Any such future assessments will decrease our earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 was enacted on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with the power to promulgate and enforce consumer protection laws. Smaller depository institutions, those with $10 billion or less in assets, will be subject to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule-writing authority, and existing depository institution regulatory agencies will retain examination and enforcement authority for such institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk, makes permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance, provides un limited federal deposit insurance until December 31, 2012 for non-interest bearing transaction accounts at all insured depository institutions and repeals the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions affecting (1) corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies whose securities are registered with the SEC, (2) FDIC insurance assessments, (3) interchange fees for debit cards, which would be set by the Federal Reserve under a restrictive “reasonable and proportional cost” per transaction standard, (4) minimum capital levels for bank holding companies, subject to a grandfather clause for financial institutions with less than $15 billion in assets, (5) derivative and proprietary trading by financial institutions, and (6) the resolution of large financial institutions. At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations may adversely impact us. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue attractive business opportunities, cause us to modify our strategies and business operations and increase our capital requirements and constraints, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Our ability to fully utilize deferred tax assets could be impaired under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As of December 31, 2010, our net deferred tax asset was approximately $167 million, which includes approximately $124 million of deferred tax benefits related to federal and state operating loss carryforwards. The carrying value of our net deferred tax assets and our ability to use such assets to offset future tax liabilities could be impaired if cumulative common stock transactions over a rolling three-year period resulted in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. There is no guarantee that the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan will prevent United from experiencing an ownership change under Section 382. Our inability to utilize these tax benefits would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There are no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding United’s periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 