ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in United’s common stock involves risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference before deciding to purchase common stock. It is possible that risks and uncertainties not listed below may arise or become material in the future and affect United’s business. Past operating results may not be indicative of future operating results. United may not be able to sustain its growth. Various factors, such as increased size, economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, competition and the ability to find and retain people that can make United’s community-focused operating model successful, may impede its ability to expand its market presence. If United experiences a significant decrease in its growth rate, its results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. United’s business is subject to the success of the local economies and real estate markets in which it operates. United’s success significantly depends on the growth in population, income levels, loans and deposits and on the continued stability in real estate values in its markets. If the communities in which it operates do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, United’s business may be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions in United’s specific market areas, specifically decreases in real estate property values due to the nature of United’s loan portfolio, approximately 90% of which is secured by real estate, could reduce United’s growth rate, affect the ability of customers to repay their loans and generally affect United’s financial condition and results of operations. United is less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of more diverse economies. United’s concentration of residential construction loans is subject to unique risks that could adversely affect earnings. United’s residential construction loan portfolio was $1.8 billion at December 31, 2007, comprising 31% of total loans. Residential construction loans are often riskier than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans to individuals. In the event of a general economic slowdown like the one we are currently experiencing, these loans sometimes represent higher risk due to slower sales and reduced cash flow that could affect the borrowers’ ability to repay on a timely basis. In addition, although regulations and regulatory policies affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change and we cannot predict when changes will occur or the ultimate effect of any changes, there has been recent regulatory focus on construction, development and other commercial real estate lending. Recent changes in the federal policies applicable to construction, development or other commercial real estate loans make us subject us to substantial limitations with respect to making such loans, increase the costs of making such loans, and require us to have a greater amount of capital to support this kind of lending, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. United may face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions. United regularly engages in de novo branch expansion. Also, when a business opportunity becomes available in the right market with the right management team, United may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. These involve a number of risks, including: · the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to an acquired branch or institution,a new branch office or a new market; · the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; · the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on results of operations; and · the risk of loss of key employees and customers of an acquired branch or institution. Changes in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect net income and the value of United’s assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect the level of net interest revenue, the primary component of net income. In a period of changing interest rates, interest expense may increase at different rates than the interest earned on assets. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease net interest revenue. At December 31, 2007, our simulation model indicated that a 200 basis point increase in rates over the next twelve months would cause an approximate 1.3% increase in net interest revenue and a 200 basis point decrease in rates over the next twelve months would cause an approximate 1.5% decrease in net interest revenue. 12 Changes in the level of interest rates may also negatively affect the value of United’s assets and its ability to realize gains or avoid losses from the sale of those assets, all of which ultimately affect earnings. In addition, an increase in interest rates may decrease the demand for loans. If United’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, earnings would decrease. United’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. United may experience significant loan losses which would have a material adverse effect on operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. United maintains an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses inherent in the portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, management relies on an analysis of the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. If those assumptions are incorrect, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in the loan portfolio. United may be subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent conduct of our loan customers, third party service providers and employees. When we make loans to individuals or entities, we rely upon information supplied by borrowers and other third parties, including information contained in the applicant’s loan application, property appraisal reports, title information and the borrower’s net worth, liquidity and cash flow information. While we attempt to verify information provided through available sources, we cannot be certain all such information is correct or complete. Our reliance on incorrect or incomplete information could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect United’s profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and United experiences competition in each of its markets from many other financial institutions. United competes with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as community, super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in its market areas and elsewhere. United competes with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. Many of United’s competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions that are able to operate profitably with a narrower net interest margin and have a more diverse revenue base. United may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of its smaller size, more limited geographic diversification and inability to spread costs across broader markets. Although United competes by concentrating marketing efforts in primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, there can be no assurance that this strategy will continue to be successful. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There are no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding United’s periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. ITEM 