ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Report before investing in our common stock. If any of the events anticipated by the risks described below occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, causing you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business Our proprietary fertilizer formula may become obsolete which could materially adversely affect the competitiveness of our future fertilizer products. In addition, our proprietary fertilizer formula is in the process of applying for patent. There is no assurance such patent will be granted. The production of our fertilizer products is based on our proprietary fertilizer formula. Our future success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging humic acid fertilizer products and by developing and introducing enhancements to our existing products and new products on a timely basis that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. If our proprietary formula becomes obsolete as our competitors develop better products than ours, our future business and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, although we entered into confidentiality agreements with our key employees, we cannot assure you if there would be any breach of such agreement in which case our rights over such proprietary fertilizer formula would be adversely affected. In addition, Techteam is in the process of applying for patent for its proprietary formula under the name of Method and Recipe of the Water Soluble Humic Acid Fertilizers; however, the process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive and we cannot assure you that such patent application will result in patent being issued, or that existing or future issued patents will be sufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards and incur other costs. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. Techteam is the patent holder of a patent named Production Facility of Humic Acid Products in the PRC. Our existing production facility is protected by such a patent. Our patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors do not have, and will not obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in the PRC. 18 Our success also depends in large part on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. As litigation becomes more common in the PRC in resolving commercial disputes, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. The validity and scope of claims relating to humic acid fertilizer production technology and related devices and machine patents involve complex technical, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability, including damage awards, to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions preventing the manufacture and sale of our products. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. Our sales have seasonal variations and adverse weather conditions could reduce demand for our products. We will experience seasonal variations in our revenues and our operating costs due to seasonality. The peak selling season for our fertilizer products is from March through October. Periods of cold weather may delay the application of the fertilizer, or render it unnecessary thereby reducing demand for our fertilizer products. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, approximately 57.3% of our annual fertilizer sales volume came from the first fiscal quarter (summer) and the fourth fiscal quarter (spring), when demand for our fertilizer products typically peaks during planting season and prior to harvest. The peak selling season for our agricultural products is from October through March the next calendar year during our second fiscal quarter (fall) and the third fiscal quarter (winter). During the period from October 2008 through March 2009, Jintai generated approximately $4.0 million, or 63.8% of annual sales of agricultural products. It was mainly due to the strong demand for our high-end fruits and decorative flowers during the holiday seasons. Although the peak selling seasons for our two business segments as referenced above can mitigate the seasonality in their combined revenues, since fertilizer products generated 82.1% of our total revenues, we may still experience seasonal variations. Further, if any natural disasters, such as a snowstorm, flood, drought, hail, tornadoes or earthquakes, occur, demand for our products would likely be reduced. The industry in which we do business is highly fragmented and competitive and we face competition from numerous fertilizer manufacturers in China and elsewhere. We compete with numerous local Chinese fertilizer manufacturers. Although we may have greater resources than many of our competitors, most of which are small local fertilizer companies, it is possible that these competitors have better access in certain local markets to customers and prospects, an enhanced ability to customize products to a particular region or locality and more established local distribution channels within a small region. We also compete with a few large PRC national competitors. Although we have advanced automated humic acid based fertilizer production lines and a green house supported research and development center, we cannot assure you that such large competitors will not develop their own similar production or research and development facilities. Further, China’s access into the World Trade Organization could lead to increased foreign competition for us. International producers and traders import products into China that generally are of higher quality than those produced in the local Chinese market. If they are localized and become familiar enough of the type of fertilizer we produce, we may face additional competition. If we are not successful in our marketing and advertising efforts to increase awareness of our brands, our revenues could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. Our major competitors may be better able than we to successfully endure downturns in our industrial sector. In periods of reduced demand for our products, we can either choose to maintain market share by reducing our selling prices to meet competition or maintain selling prices, which would likely sacrifice market share. Sales and overall profitability would be reduced in either case. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our existing markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. 19 Any significant fluctuation in our production costs may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The prices for the raw materials and other inputs to manufacture our fertilizer products are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including the price of weathered coal, our energy costs, mineral and non-mineral elements, and freight costs. The costs for these inputs may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the economy and markets. Although we may pass any increase of such costs through to our customers, in the event we are unable to do so, we could incur significant losses and a diminution of our share price. Disruptions in the supply of raw materials used in our products could cause us to be unable to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and net sales. Weathered coal is the primary raw material that we use to manufacture our products. Although there are numerous weathered coal suppliers available to us, to date, we have been using, as our sole supplier Lupoling Coal Mine Industry and Trade Company of Jinzhong City located in the Shaanxi Province (“Lupoling”) because of the high quality weathered coal it provides and its closeness in location. If there are any business interruptions at Lupoling and we are unable to locate an alternative supply in a timely manner, we may not be able to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and net sales. We may be subject to more stringent governmental regulation on our products. The manufacture and sale of our agricultural products in the PRC is regulated by the PRC and the Shaanxi Provincial Government. The legal and regulatory regime governing our industry is evolving, and we may become subject to different, including more stringent, requirements than those currently applicable to us. While we believe a more stringent standard will have a bigger impact on those manufacturers with poor quality products, we cannot assure you any regulatory change will not adversely affect our business. If we cannot renew our five fertilizer registration certificates, we will be unable to sell some or all of our products. If we cannot receive the formal fertilizer registration certificates for our new products, powdered fertilizers, upon the expiration of the temporary registration certificates, we cannot continue to produce such new products. All fertilizers produced in China must be registered with the PRC Ministry of Agriculture. No fertilizer can be manufactured without such registration. There are two kinds of registrations: interim registration and formal registration. The interim registration is valid for one year and applies to fertilizers in the stages of in-the-field testing and test selling. Fertilizers that have completed in-the-field testing and test selling must obtain formal registration, which is valid for five years, and thereafter must be renewed each five years. We have obtained formal Fertilizer Registration Certificates covering all of our liquid compound fertilizer products from the PRC Ministry of Agriculture. Four of our five liquid compound fertilizer registration certificates will expire in 2013, and one will expire on December 30, 2009. We have received two interim fertilizer registration certificates for our new products, powdered fertilizers, or refined organic fertilizer. Our belief is that the PRC Ministry of Agriculture generally will grant an application for renewal in the absence of illegal activity by the applicant. However, there is no assurance that the PRC Ministry of Agriculture will grant renewal of our formal Fertilizer Registration Certificates. If we cannot obtain the necessary renewal, we will not be able to manufacture and sell our fertilizer products in China which will cause the termination of part or all of our commercial operations for fertilizer products. With respect to the transformation of the interim fertilizer registration certificates to formal fertilizer registration certificates, we believe that we can receive formal fertilizer registration certificates for our two interim fertilizer registration certificates in due course; however, if the government imposes additional burden on the application procedure or put temporary suspension on its certificate granting process due to certain unexpected incidents occurred in China, including but not limited to the polluted baby formula accident originated from Sanlu Group in 2008, we cannot assure you that our formal fertilizer registration certificates can be obtained without delay or can be obtained at all in which case our production could be adversely affected. 20 Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. To our knowledge, neither the production nor the sale of our products constitutes activities, or generate materials that create any environmental hazards or requires our business operations to comply with PRC environmental laws. Although it has not been alleged by PRC government officials that we have violated any current environmental regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not amend the current PRC environmental protection laws and regulations. Our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected if we were to be held liable for violating existing environmental regulations or if we were to increase expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting our operations. We do not presently maintain business disruption insurance. Any disruption of the operations in our factories would damage our business. Our operations could be interrupted by fire, flood, earthquake and other events beyond our control for which we do not carry adequate insurance. While we have property damage insurance and automobile insurance, we do not carry business disruption insurance, which is not readily available in China. Any disruption of the operations in our factories would have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture and deliver products, which would cause a potential diminution in sales, the cancellation of orders, damage to our reputation and potential lawsuits. We do not presently maintain product liability insurance, and our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties or claims filed against us. We currently do not carry any product liability or other similar insurance. We cannot assure you that we will not face liability in the event of the failure of any of our products. We cannot assure you that, especially as China’s domestic consumer economy and industrial economy continues to expand, product liability exposure and litigation will not become more commonplace in the PRC, or that we will not face product liability exposure or actual liability as we expand our sales into international markets, such as the United States, where product liability claims are more prevalent. Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. We depend, to a large extent, on the abilities and participation of our current management team, but have a particular reliance upon Mr. Tao Li, our CEO, President and Chairman of the Board. The loss of the services of Mr. Li, for any reason, may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We cannot assure you that the services of Mr. Li will continue to be available to us, or that we will be able to find a suitable replacement for him. We do not carry key man life insurance for our key personnel. Our future success will also depend on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical sales and marketing customer support. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our key personnel or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts in this regard, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. Mr. Tao Li, our Chairman, President and CEO may not devote all of his time into our business. Our Chairman, President and CEO, Mr. Tao Li, also serves as Chairman of Xi’an Techteam Science & Technology Industry (Group) Co. Ltd., a company that is engaged in hi-tech application fields in China. This may give rise to a conflict of interest for Mr. Li in allocating his time to each business. While Mr. Li anticipates having sufficient time to devote to our business, a lack of adequate time spent by him on our business may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. 21 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to annually furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment by our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. In addition, under current SEC rules, we will be required to obtain an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm as to our internal control over financial reporting for our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. Performing the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 is both costly and challenging. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We are responsible for the indemnification of our officers and directors. Our Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against costs and expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on our behalf. Consequently, we may be required to expend substantial funds to satisfy these indemnity obligations. Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC Changes in the policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of such business. The PRC’s economy is in a transition from a planned economy to a market oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set national economic development goals (Source: President Hu’s Report at 17th Party Congress). Policies of the PRC government can have significant effects on economic conditions in China. The PRC government has confirmed that economic development will follow the model of a market economy, such as the United States. Under this direction, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in the PRC will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Our interests may be adversely affected by changes in policies by the PRC government, including: · changes in laws, regulations or their interpretation · confiscatory taxation · restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies · expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises Although the PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies for more than two decades, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting the PRC's political, economic and social life. 22 The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, and the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC and almost all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years (Source: National Bureau of Statistics of China and Xinhuanet.com), we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The humic acid based fertilizer industry in the PRC is growing (Source: Ministry of Agriculture in the PRC), according to the PRC National Bureau of Statistics, the PRC’s economy expended 6.8% from a year earlier in the fourth quarter of 2008, which means that a full-year growth for 2008 was 9.0%. It is the first time since 2002 that China has expanded by less than 10% annually. We do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our products. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, it has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products do not rise at a rate that is sufficient to fully absorb inflation-driven increases in our costs of supplies, our profitability can be adversely affected. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of these and other similar policies can impede economic growth and thereby harm the market for our products. TechTeam and Jintai are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to our subsidiary, Green New Jersey; as a result, we might therefore, be unable to pay dividends to you. We are a holding company incorporated in the State of Nevada and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investments in our subsidiaries, Green New Jersey, TechTeam and Jintai. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely entirely on dividends payments from TechTeam and Jintai, our subsidiaries in PRC. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries are also required to set aside a portion of its after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. We may experience difficulties such as lengthy processing time and administrative delay from the China State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”), the approval of which is necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Furthermore, if Green New Jersey, TechTeam or Jintai incurs debt on its own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or Green New Jersey are unable to receive any profits from TechTeam and Jintai’s operations, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. 23 Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of PRC to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government also may at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of RMB may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. As we rely entirely on revenues earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar could lead the RMB equivalent of the U.S. dollars be reduced and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making dividend payments on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the RMB we convert would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. Our business and financial performance may be materially adversely affected if the PRC regulatory authorities determine that our acquisition of Techteam constitutes a Round-trip Investment without the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”) approval. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated the Regulation on Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors (the “2006 M&A Rules”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. According to the 2006 M&A Rules, a “Round-trip Investment” is defined as having taken place when a PRC business that is owned, directly or indirectly, by PRC individual(s) is sold to a non-PRC entity that is established or controlled, directly or indirectly, by those same PRC individual(s) and their PRC affiliates. Under the 2006 M&A Rules, any Round-trip Investment must be approved by the MOFCOM, and any indirect arrangement or series of arrangements which achieves the same end result without the approval of MOFCOM is a violation of PRC law. 24 Prior to obtaining the approval from the Shaanxi Department on August 3, 2007 and the approval from the Xi’an Administration for Industry and Commerce on August 24, 2007, pending the full payment of the purchase price, for Green New Jersey purchasing 100% capital stock of Techteam (the “Techteam Acquisition”), Techteam was a PRC business whose shareholders were two PRC individuals and a PRC entity, of which Mr. Tao Li was the controlling shareholder holding 52% of its shares. The PRC entity owned 66% of the shares of Techteam prior to the conversion of Techteam from a domestic company to a wholly foreign owned company. Mr. Tao Li is now our President, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and significant shareholder. After the consummation of the transaction contemplated by the Share Exchange Agreement and a simultaneous private placement of $20,519,255 on December 26, 2007 (the “Private Placement”), Techteam received the Techteam Purchase Price on January 2, 2008 paid by Green New Jersey by using part of the Private Placement proceeds to Techteam’s shareholders. When Green New Jersey was incorporated on January 27, 2007 and when the Techteam Acquisition was approved, none of the shareholders of Green New Jersey was a PRC citizen. Immediately after the consummation of the Share Exchange Agreement, shareholders of Green New Jersey became our shareholders, among whom Yinshing David To became our controlling shareholder. To incentivize Mr. Tao Li in connection with the continuous development of Techteam’s business, a Call Option Agreement was entered into by and between Mr. Yinshing David To and Mr. Tao Li on December 24, 2007, pursuant to which Mr. Tao Li has the opportunity to acquire 6,535,676 shares of Common Stock, or Earn In Shares, which are majority of Mr. To’s common stock of our company, from Mr. To. All of the shares subject to the Call Option Agreement have been transferred to Mr. Tao Li as of February 24, 2009, and upon such transfer Mr. Li became our largest shareholder. In addition, in conjunction with the Private Placement, Mr. To placed additional shares of common stock of our company held by him in an escrow account pursuant to the Make Good Escrow Agreement providing that such shares would be conveyed to investors for no additional consideration if certain 2009 performance targets were not met. In the event that we meet the 2009 targets, the escrowed shares will be transferred to Mr. Tao Li. On May 28, 2009, Mr. To executed a proxy to appoint Mr. Li as his proxy, with full power of substitution for and in his name, with respect to the escrowed shares, to vote and act or to give written consent at any shareholders’ meeting or at any time such escrowed shares are required to be voted or acted upon, further providing Mr. Li significant voting rights in the Company. The PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the Techteam Acquisition, the Share Exchange, the Call Option, Make Good Escrow and proxy arrangement are part of an overall series of arrangements which constitute a Round-trip Investment, because at the end of these transactions, the same PRC Individual who controlled Techteam became effective controlling party of a foreign entity that acquired ownership of Techteam. The PRC regulatory authorities may also take the view that the registration of the Techteam Acquisition with Shaanxi Department of Commerce and Administration of Industry and Commerce (“AIC”) in Xi’an may not be evidence that the Techteam Acquisition has been properly approved because the relevant parties did not fully disclose to the MOFCOM or AIC of the overall restructuring arrangements, the existence of the Share Exchange and its link with the Techteam Acquisition. The PRC legal counsel of Techteam has opinioned that the Techteam Acquisition did not violate any PRC law, which would include the 2006 M&A Rules. We, however, cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities, MOFCOM in particular, may take the same view as the PRC legal counsel. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the Techteam Acquisition constitutes a Round-trip Investment under the 2006 M&A Rules, we cannot assure you we may be able to obtain the approval required from MOFCOM. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the Techteam Acquisition constitutes a Round-trip Investment without MOFCOM approval, they could invalidate our acquisition and ownership of Techteam. Additionally, the PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the Techteam Acquisition constitutes a transaction which requires the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, before MOFCOM approval is obtained. We believe that if this takes place, we may be able to find a way to re-establish control of Techteam’s business operations through a series of contractual arrangements rather than an outright purchase of Techteam. We cannot assure you that such contractual arrangements will be protected by PRC law or that we can receive as complete or effective economic benefit and overall control of Techteam’s business than if the Company had direct ownership of Techteam. In addition, we cannot assure you that such contractual arrangements can be successfully effected under PRC law. If we cannot obtain MOFCOM or CSRC approval if required by the PRC regulatory authorities to do so, and if we cannot put in place or enforce relevant contractual arrangements as an alternative and equivalent means of control of Techteam, our business and financial performance will be materially adversely affected. 25 Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC domestic residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or the plan participants to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 requiring PRC domestic residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC domestic residents who are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies and have completed round trip investments but did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. PRC resident shareholders are also required to amend their registrations with the local SAFE in certain circumstances. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75. After consultation with China counsel, we do not believe that any of our PRC domestic resident shareholders are subject to the SAFE registration requirement, however, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will not be required to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations in the future. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Regulations on Employee Share Options may subject us and/or our PRC employees to regulatory liability. Under the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, issued on January 5, 2007 by the SAFE (“SAFE #78”), PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company (a company that is listed on a stock exchange) according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company or any other qualified PRC agent, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. Foreign exchange income received from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company may be remitted into a foreign currency account of such PRC citizen or be exchanged into RMB. Although our PRC citizen employees have been granted share options prior to our listing on NYSE Amex on March 9, 2009 and therefore are not subject to SAFE #78, any PRC citizen employees who will receive options in the future while we are listed on NYSE Amex or any other qualifying stock exchange shall be subject to SAFE #78. If we or our PRC citizen employees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, such as H1N1 flu, could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, where all of our revenue is derived, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including quarantines or closures of some of our offices that would adversely disrupt our operations. 26 Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and because almost all of our directors and all our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to use the United States Federal securities laws to enforce your rights against us and our officers and most of our directors or to enforce judgments of United States courts against us or our officers and most of our directors in the PRC. Almost all of our present officers and directors reside outside of the United States. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, TechTeam and Jintai, are located in the PRC and substantially all of their assets are located outside of the United States. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States Federal securities laws against us and our officers and most of our directors in the courts of either the United States or the PRC and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in PRC courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and most of our directors of criminal penalties, under the United States Federal securities laws or otherwise. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur in the PRC. If our competitors engage in these practices they may receive preferential treatment, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business, which would put us at a disadvantage. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in our Stock. Our officers, directors and affiliates control us through their positions and stock ownership and their interests may differ from other stockholders. As of September 3, 2009, our Chairman, President and CEO, Mr. Tao Li, had the voting rights on 7,897,710, or 34.82% of our common stock outstanding. As a result, he is able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions, including business combinations. The interests of Mr. Li may differ from other stockholders. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock in the secondary market. If our common stock were removed from listing with the NYSE Amex, it may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. Investors in penny stocks should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment. 27 Our common stock is subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other companies in the same industry, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. During the past fifty-two weeks, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $1.84 to a high of $33.00. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. We may be required to take a substantial charge with respect to potential stock-based compensation. In connection with our private placement in December 2007, our then largest shareholder, Mr. Yinshing David To, entered into an escrow agreement with the Company, the private placement investors and an escrow agent pursuant to which he agreed to deposit 3,156,808 shares of common stock of the Company, to be equitably adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends and similar adjustments, into escrow for satisfaction of certain "make good" provisions in the securities purchase agreement. In the escrow agreement, we established certain performance targets for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2009, including obtaining a minimum after tax net income threshold of at least $12,000,000 and obtaining an earnings per share of at least $0.60938 per share, in each case as defined, calculated and adjusted pursuant to the terms of the "make good" provisions of the securities purchase and escrow agreements. We expect to achieve these targets for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The escrow agreement provides that in the event that the fiscal year 2009 targets are not achieved, then the private placement investors will be entitled to receive distribution of the escrowed shares based on a pre-defined formula agreed to among the Company, the investors and Mr. To. If the 2009 targets are met, the escrowed shares will instead be released to Mr. Tao Li, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board, and our current largest shareholder. Pursuant to SFAS No. 123R, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, if the net income threshold is met and the shares are released back to Mr. Li, such release could be viewed as compensatory and trigger recognition of a non-cash expense equal to the fair value of the escrowed shares on the date of release. However, we did not recognize such a non-cash expense for the year ended June 30, 2009, as we believe it is inapplicable to the aforementioned situation regarding Mr. Li. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is subsequently determined that we should have in fact recognized the non-cash expense in accordance with SFAS No. 123R for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, our actual financial results for 2009 will be materially adversely affected and we may be required to restate certain or all of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 to reflect the amortization of the non-cash expense during the year. The restatement of our financial statements and the existence of a non-cash charge to earnings may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. ITEM 