ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Report before investing in our common stock. If any of the events anticipated by the risks described below occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, causing you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business We do not presently maintain business disruption insurance. Any disruption of the operations in our factories would damage our business. Our operations could be interrupted by fire, flood, earthquake and other events beyond our control for which we do not carry adequate insurance. While we have property damage insurance and automobile insurance, we do not carry business disruption insurance, which is not readily available in China. Any disruption of the operations in our factories would have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture and deliver products, which would cause a potential diminution in sales, the cancellation of orders, damage to our reputation and potential lawsuits. We do not presently maintain product liability insurance, and our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties or claims filed against us. We currently do not carry any product liability or other similar insurance. We cannot assure you that we would not face liability in the event of the failure of any of our products. We cannot assure you that, especially as China’s domestic consumer economy and industrial economy continues to expand, product liability exposure and litigation will not become more commonplace in the PRC, or that we will not face product liability exposure or actual liability as we expand our sales into international markets, like the United States, where product liability claims are more prevalent. Our proprietary fertilizer formula may become obsolete or be illegally disclosed to competitors, which could materially adversely affect the competitiveness of our future fertilizer products. The production of our fertilizer products is based on our proprietary fertilizer formula. Our future success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging humic acid fertilizer products and by developing and introducing enhancements to our existing products and new products on a timely basis that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. If our proprietary formula becomes obsolete as our competitors develop better products than ours, our future business and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, although we have entered into confidentiality agreements with our key employees, we cannot assure you that if there is a breach of such agreement by an employee, we would not be adversely affected and lose any competitive advantage that we currently have with respect to our proprietary fertilizer formula. If we are forced to take legal action to protect our proprietary formula, we will incur significant expense and further can not guarantee a favorable outcome. 22 If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and the value of our intellectual property rights could diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Jinong is in the process of applying for a patent in the PRC for its proprietary formula as referenced above under the name of Method and Recipe of the Water Soluble Humic Acid Fertilizers, which we expect to receive in the next three months; however, we cannot assure you such patent will be issued, or that existing or future issued patents will be sufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Jinong is the patent holder of a patent named Production Facility of Humic Acid Products in the PRC. Our existing production facility is protected by such patent. Gufeng and Tianjuyuan do not have patents but currently possess seven proprietary technologies. However, we cannot predict the degree and range of protection patents and confidentiality agreements with respect to proprietary technologies will afford us against competitors. Third parties may find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents and proprietary technologies. Third parties may attempt to obtain patents claiming aspects similar to our patent applications. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors do not have, and will not obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in the PRC. If we need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, such actions may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend other resources which could otherwise have been devoted to our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, historically, implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, which increases the risk that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in China, there is no guarantee that we would be able to halt any unauthorized use of our intellectual property through litigation. If we infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and compelled to defend against claims by third parties, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards and incur other costs. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. As litigation becomes more common in the PRC in resolving commercial disputes, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. The validity and scope of claims relating to humic acid fertilizer production technology and related devices and machine patents involve complex technical, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability, including damage awards, to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties (which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all), to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions preventing the manufacture and sale of our products. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. 23 The occurrence of any acts of God, war, terrorist attacks and other emergencies which are beyond our control may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. Acts of God, war, terrorist attacks and other emergencies which are beyond our control may have a material adverse effect on the economy and infrastructure in the PRC and on the livelihood of the Chinese population. Our business operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected should such events occur. We cannot give assurance that any acts of God such as floods, earthquakes, drought or any war, terrorist attack or other hostilities in any part of the PRC or even the world, potential or threatened, will not, directly or indirectly, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The industry in which we do business is highly fragmented and competitive and we face competition from numerous fertilizer manufacturers in China and elsewhere. We compete with numerous local Chinese fertilizer manufacturers. Although we may have greater resources than many of our competitors, most of which are small local fertilizer companies, it is possible that these competitors have better access in certain local markets to customers and prospects, an enhanced ability to customize products to a particular region or locality and more established local distribution channels within a small region. We also compete with a few large PRC national competitors. Although we have advanced automated humic acid-based fertilizer production lines and green house supported research and development centers, we cannot assure you that such large competitors will not develop their own similar production or research and development facilities. Further, China’s access into the World Trade Organization could lead to increased foreign competition for us. International producers and traders import products into China that generally are of higher quality than those produced in the local Chinese market. If they are localized and become familiar enough of the type of fertilizer we produce, we may face additional competition. If we are not successful in our marketing and advertising efforts to increase awareness of our brands, our revenues could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. Our major competitors may be better able than we to successfully endure downturns in our industrial sector. In periods of reduced demand for our products, we can either choose to maintain market share by reducing our selling prices to meet competition or maintain selling prices, which would likely sacrifice market share. Sales and overall profitability would be reduced in either case. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our existing markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. If we are unable to design, manufacture, and market fertilizer products in a timely and efficient manner, we may not remain as competitive. Most of our fertilizer products are characterized by short product development cycles and targeted the unique climate and soil conditions where our customers are located. Accordingly, we devote a substantial amount of resources to product development. To compete successfully, we must develop and offer new and/or improved fertilizer products that are suitable to evolving customer needs. New fertilizers may be not widely proven. As a result, we may experience performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks and cost overruns. Our inability to develop and offer new and/or improved fertilizer products or to achieve customer acceptance of these products could limit our ability to compete in the market or to grow revenues at desired rates of growth. Disruptions in the supply of raw materials used in our products could cause us to be unable to meet customer demand in a timely manner, which could result in the loss of customers and net sales or could result in a lower profit margin for us. Jinong is supplied with over thirty types of raw materials, of which weathered coal is the primary one as it is the raw material from which humic acid is extracted and used to manufacture our products. Although there are numerous weathered coal suppliers available to us, to date, we have been using Lupoling Coal Mine Industry and Trade Company of Jinzhong City located in the Shanxi Province (“Lupoling”) as our sole supplier of weathered coal because of the high quality weathered coal it provides and its closeness to us in location. Our supply agreement with Lupoling is renewed on a monthly basis. If Lupoling does not intend to renew the supply agreement with us for any reason, or if there are any business interruptions at Lupoling and we are unable to locate an alternative supply in a timely manner or on the same terms, we may not be able to meet customer demand of humic acid-based fertilizers in a timely manner or maintain our standards of quality for humic acid-based fertilizers, which may result in the loss of customers and net sales or we may not be able to keep our profit margin on our humic acid-based fertilizers. 24 Gufeng and Tianjuyuan are supplied with approximately fifty types of raw materials from a diversified pool of suppliers. Neither Gufeng nor Tianjuyuan are dependent on any single supplier for its raw materials; however, if we experience a significant increase in demand or if we need to replace any of these suppliers, we cannot be assured that the adequate supply of raw materials or a replacement supplier will be obtained in a timely manner to avoid any material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. Any significant fluctuation in our production costs may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The prices for the raw materials and other inputs to manufacture our fertilizer products are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including the price of weathered coal, our energy costs, mineral and non-mineral elements, and freight costs. The costs for these inputs may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the economy and markets. Although we may pass any increase of such costs through to our customers, in the event we are unable to do so, we could incur significant losses and a diminution of our share price. We may be subject to more stringent governmental regulation on our agricultural products. The production and sale of our agricultural products in the PRC is regulated by the PRC and the Shanxi Provincial Government. The legal and regulatory regime governing our industry is evolving, and we may become subject to different, including more stringent, requirements than those currently applicable to us. While we believe a more stringent standard will have a bigger impact on those manufacturers with poor quality products, we cannot assure you any regulatory change will not adversely affect our business. If we cannot renew our fertilizer registration certificates, we will be unable to sell some or all of our products. If we cannot receive the formal fertilizer registration certificates for our new products, upon the expiration of the temporary registration certificates, we cannot continue to produce such new products. All fertilizers produced in China must be registered with the PRC Ministry of Agriculture. No fertilizer can be manufactured without such registration. There are two kinds of registrations: interim registration and formal registration. The interim registration is valid for one year and applies to fertilizers in the stages of in-the-field testing and test selling. Fertilizers that have completed in-the-field testing and test selling must obtain formal registration, which is valid for five years, and thereafter must be renewed each five years. We have obtained formal Fertilizer Registration Certificates covering all of our fertilizer products from the PRC Ministry of Agriculture. After the acquisition of Gufeng, we currently have 19 interim fertilizer registration certificates for our fertilizer products, and will apply for formal registration after we have completed field tests for these products. Our belief is that the PRC Ministry of Agriculture generally will grant an application for renewal in the absence of illegal activity by the applicant. However, there is no assurance that the PRC Ministry of Agriculture will grant renewal of our formal Fertilizer Registration Certificates. If we cannot obtain the necessary renewal, we will not be able to manufacture and sell our fertilizer products in China which will cause the termination of part or all of our commercial operations for fertilizer products. With respect to the transformation of the interim fertilizer registration certificates to formal fertilizer registration certificates, we believe that we can receive formal fertilizer registration certificates for our two interim fertilizer registration certificates in due course; however, if the government imposes additional burden on the application procedure or put temporary suspension on its certificate granting process due to certain unexpected incidents occurred in China, we cannot assure you that our formal fertilizer registration certificates can be obtained without delay or can be obtained at all in which case our production could be adversely affected. 25 Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our manufacturing operations are subject to numerous laws, regulations, rules and specifications relating to the environment, including, among others, the Integrated Emission Standard of Air Pollutants GB 16297-1996 and the Standard of Environmental Noise of Urban Area GB 3096-93. Failure to comply with any laws and regulations and future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. Our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected if we were to be held liable for violating existing environmental regulations or if we were to incur significant expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting our operations. Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. We depend, to a large extent, on the abilities and participation of our current management team, but have a particular reliance upon Mr. Tao Li, our CEO, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors. The loss of the services of Mr. Li, for any reason, may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We cannot assure you that the services of Mr. Li will continue to be available to us, or that we will be able to find a suitable replacement for him. We do not carry key man life insurance for our key personnel. The agricultural chemicals business is specialized and requires the employment of personnel with significant scientific and operational experience in the industry. Accordingly, we must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically and scientifically competent employees. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional management and other key personnel that have the necessary scientific, technical and operational skills and experience with the fertilizer industry. These individuals are difficult to find in the PRC and we may not be able to retain such skilled employees. If we are unable to hire individuals with the requisite experience we may not be able to produce enough products to optimize profits, research and development initiatives may be delayed and we may encounter disruptions in production and research which will negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and share price. Mr. Tao Li, our Chairman, President and CEO may not devote all of his time to our business. Our Chairman, President and CEO, Mr. Tao Li, also serves as Chairman of Xi’an Techteam Science & Technology Industry (Group) Co. Ltd., a company that is engaged in hi-tech application fields in China, and Chairman of Kingtone Wirelessinfo Solution Holding Ltd, a publicly-traded, China-based developer and provider of mobile enterprise solutions. This may give rise for Mr. Li in allocating his time to each business. While Mr. Li anticipates having sufficient time to devote to our business, a lack of adequate time spent by him on our business may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. 26 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to annually furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment by our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. In addition, under current SEC rules, we will be required to obtain an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm as to our internal control over financial reporting for our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. Performing the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 is both costly and challenging. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We engaged a consulting firm in 2009 to help us design and implement effective internal controls; however we cannot provide assurance that we will not fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment on an ongoing basis, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We are responsible for the indemnification of our officers and directors. Our Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against costs and expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on our behalf. Consequently, we may be required to expend substantial funds to satisfy these indemnity obligations. Our inability to successfully integrate Gufeng or any other businesses we acquire could have adverse consequences on our business. On July 2, 2010, we consummated the acquisition of Gufeng and Tianjuyuan, Beijing-based producers of compound fertilizer, blended fertilizer, organic compound fertilizer and mixed, organic-inorganic compound fertilizer. This acquisition and future acquisitions may result in greater administrative burdens and operating costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or integrate acquired companies or businesses successfully. The process of integrating Gufeng or other acquired businesses may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption of or a loss of momentum in our business as a result of the following factors, among others: · loss of key employees or customers; · possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information, production and other systems; · failure to maintain the quality of products that the companies have historically provided; · failure to upgrade existing production lines of Gufeng or effectively implement humic acid production technology into existing manufacturing process of Gufeng; · effectively coordinating sales, marketing and distribution functions, including the cross-selling of products; · the need to coordinate geographically diverse organizations, and · the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to deal with any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we may expect from such acquisitions and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results and financial condition. 27 Our inability to effectively improve the financial performance of Gufeng may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although Gufeng had sales revenues of $54,026,378 for its fiscal year ended December 20, 2009, Gufeng’s net income for such period was $3,755,409. This was primarily due to the lower profit margins on Gufeng’s products, inefficiencies in production and daily operations and negative working capital. In addition, rising transportation costs passed on by Gufeng’s distributors may further erode margins on Gufeng’s products. As Gufeng is based in Beijing, it is susceptible to rising costs of labor common in large cities such as Beijing, which may make it difficult for us to expand the workforce of Gufeng and Tianjuyuan to meet our production requirements and strategic goals. During the next 12 months, we will focus our efforts on integrating Gufeng’s employees, products and distribution network into our business. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to effectively do so, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have not obtained the land use right over the premises on which certain facilities of Gufeng, our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, is located. As a result, the lack of a proper title certificate may jeopardize our right to use the premises and our possession of the buildings we built on such premises. Through Tianjuyuan, we lease approximately 47,333 square meters (509,488 square feet) of land in the Ping Gu District of Beijing (the “Premises”). Under the lease dated February 16, 2004 with the village committee of Dong Gao Village and Zhen Nan Zhang Dai Village in the Beijing Ping Gu District (the “Lease”), Tianjuyuan leases the land at an annual rent of RMB35,500 (approximately $5,217). The term of the Lease is from February 1, 2004 to January 31, 2054. We were recently informed by our PRC counsel that the Lease is invalid and unenforceable pursuant to the PRC Land Administration Law and related regulations. Therefore, we are in the process of applying for the proper land use right certificate from the relevant government authorities in order to legitimize our right over the Premises. However, there can be no assurance that such land use right certificate will be granted to us. Until we obtain the land use right certificate, there exists a risk that the PRC government may declare the Lease invalid, evict our personnel from the Premises and tear down the buildings we built on the Premises. As of the date of this report, we have no knowledge of any pending or threatened governmental actions relating to the Premises. Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC Substantially all of our assets and operations are located in the PRC, and substantially all of our revenue is sourced from the PRC. Accordingly our results of operations and financial position are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in the PRC, including the following risks: Changes in the policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of such business. The PRC’s economy is in a transition from a planned economy to a market oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set national economic development goals (Source: President Hu’s Report at 17th Party Congress). Policies of the PRC government can have significant effects on economic conditions in China. The PRC government has confirmed that economic development will follow the model of a market economy, such as the United States. Under this direction, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in the PRC will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Our interests may be adversely affected by changes in policies by the PRC government, including: • changes in laws, regulations or their interpretation • confiscatory taxation • restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies 28 • expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises Although the PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies for more than two decades, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting the PRC's political, economic and social life. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, and the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales in the PRC and any downturn in the Chinese economy could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC and substantially all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. We anticipate that revenues from sales of our products in the PRC will continue to represent a substantial proportion of our total revenues in the near future. Any significant decline in the condition of the PRC economy could, among other things, adversely affect consumer buying power and discourage consumption of our products, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, it has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products do not rise at a rate that is sufficient to fully absorb inflation-driven increases in our costs of supplies, our profitability can be adversely affected. According to the International Monetary Fund or IMF, the inflation rate in China fluctuated on an annual basis from a low rate of -1.4% in 1999 to the highest rate of 5.9% in 2008. The IMF estimates that the inflation rate in 2009 was - -0.7%. These fluctuations and economic factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of these and other similar policies can impede economic growth and thereby harm the market for our products. 29 Our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to our subsidiary, Green New Jersey; as a result, we might therefore, be unable to pay dividends to you. We are a holding company incorporated in the State of Nevada and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investments in our subsidiaries, Green New Jersey, Jinong and Jintai, Gufeng and Tianjuyuan. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely entirely on dividends payments from our subsidiaries in PRC. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries are also required to set aside a portion of its after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. We may experience difficulties such as lengthy processing time from the foreign exchange administrative bureau’s side and formality requirement on paperwork in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Furthermore, if any of our subsidiaries incurs debt on its own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or Green New Jersey are unable to receive any profits from the operations of our subsidiaries in the PRC, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi (“RMB”) into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of PRC to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government also may at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of RMB may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. As we rely entirely on revenues earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar could lead the RMB equivalent of the U.S. dollars be reduced and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making dividend payments on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the RMB we convert would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. 30 Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC domestic residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 requiring PRC domestic residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC domestic residents who are stockholders of offshore special purpose companies and have completed round trip investments but did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. PRC resident stockholders are also required to amend their registrations with the local SAFE in certain circumstances. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75. After consultation with China counsel, we do not believe that any of our PRC domestic resident stockholders are subject to the SAFE registration requirement, however, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our stockholders who are PRC residents will not be required to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations in the future. The failure or inability of our PRC resident stockholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions by SAFE or other PRC government authorities if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by offshore listed companies to PRC citizens. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Operating Procedures for Foreign Exchange Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Stock Option Plans of Offshore Listed Companies, or Circular 78. Under Circular 78, Chinese citizens who are granted share options by an offshore listed company are required, through a Chinese agent or Chinese subsidiary of the offshore listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures, including applications for foreign exchange purchase quotas and opening special bank accounts. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted share options are subject to Circular 78. Failure to comply with these regulations may subject us or our Chinese employees to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other PRC government authorities and may prevent us from further granting options under our share incentive plans to our employees. Such events could adversely affect our business operations. The PRC’s labor law restricts our ability to reduce our workforce in the PRC in the event of an economic downturn and may increase our production costs. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The legislation formalized workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law provides for specific standards and procedures for the termination of an employment contract and places the burden of proof on the employer. In addition, the law requires the payment of a statutory severance pay upon the termination of an employment contract in most cases, including the case of the expiration of a fixed-term employment contract. Further, the law requires an employer to conclude an “employment contract without a fixed-term” with any employee who either has worked for the same employer for 10 consecutive years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts with the same employer. An “employment contract without a fixed term” can no longer be terminated on the ground of the expiration of the contract, although it can still be terminated pursuant to the standards and procedures set forth under the new law. Because of the lack of implementing rules for the new law and the precedents for the enforcement of such a law, the standards and procedures set forth under the law in relation to the termination of an employment contract have raised concerns among foreign investment enterprises in the PRC that such “employment contract without a fixed term” might in fact become a “lifetime, permanent employment contract.” Finally, under this law, downsizing of either more than 20 people or more than 10% of the workforce may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant to the PRC’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations, or where there has been a material change in the objective economic circumstances relied upon by the parties at the time of the conclusion of the employment contract, thereby making the performance of such employment contract not possible. To date, there has been very little guidance and precedents as to how such specified circumstances for downsizing will be interpreted and enforced by the relevant PRC authorities. All of our employees working for us exclusively within the PRC are covered by the new law and thus, our ability to adjust the size of our operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns may be curtailed. Accordingly, if we face future periods of decline in business activity generally or adverse economic periods specific to our business, this new law can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on our results of operations and financial condition. 31 Our business and financial performance may be materially adversely affected if the PRC regulatory authorities determine that our acquisition of Jinong constitutes a Round-trip Investment without the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”) approval. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated the Regulation on Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors (the “2006 M&A Rules”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. According to the 2006 M&A Rules, a “Round-trip Investment” is defined as having taken place when a PRC business that is owned, directly or indirectly, by PRC individual(s) is sold to a non-PRC entity that is established or controlled, directly or indirectly, by those same PRC individual(s) and their PRC affiliates. Under the 2006 M&A Rules, any Round-trip Investment must be approved by the MOFCOM. The application of the 2006 M&A Rules with respect to the definition of Round-trip Investment remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the definition, scope of the applicability of the MOFCOM approval. We, through Green New Jersey, acquired 100% capital stock of Jinong (the “Jinong Acquisition”), Jinong was a PRC business whose stockholders were two PRC individuals and a PRC entity, of which Mr. Tao Li, our current Chairman, President and CEO was the controlling stockholder holding 52% of its shares. The PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the Jinong Acquisition could be part of a Round-trip Investment The PRC legal counsel of Jinong has opinioned that the Jinong Acquisition did not violate any PRC law, which would include the 2006 M&A Rules. We, however, cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities, MOFCOM in particular, may take the same view as the PRC legal counsel. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the Jinong Acquisition constitutes a Round-trip Investment under the 2006 M&A Rules, we cannot assure you we may be able to obtain the approval required from MOFCOM. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the Jinong Acquisition constitutes a Round-trip Investment without MOFCOM approval, they could invalidate our acquisition and ownership of Jinong. Additionally, the PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the Jinong Acquisition constitutes a transaction which requires the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, before MOFCOM approval is obtained. We believe that if this takes place, we may be able to find a way to re-establish control of Jinong’s business operations through a series of contractual arrangements rather than an outright purchase of Jinong. We cannot assure you that such contractual arrangements will be protected by PRC law or that we can receive as complete or effective economic benefit and overall control of Jinong’s business than if the Company had direct ownership of Jinong. In addition, we cannot assure you that such contractual arrangements can be successfully effected under PRC law. If we cannot obtain MOFCOM or CSRC approval if required by the PRC regulatory authorities to do so, and if we cannot put in place or enforce relevant contractual arrangements as an alternative and equivalent means of control of Jinong, our business and financial performance will be materially adversely affected. 32 PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds we received from this offering to make loans to our PRC subsidiaries or to make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We are an offshore holding company conducting our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries. In utilizing the proceeds we received from any offering, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, whether currently in existence or to be formed in the future, or make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans we make to our PRC subsidiaries cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE, or its local counterparts. Under applicable PRC law, the government authorities must approve a foreign-invested enterprise’s registered capital amount, which represents the total amount of capital contributions made by the stockholders that have registered with the registration authorities. In addition, the authorities must also approve the foreign-invested enterprise’s total investment, which is equal to the company’s registered capital plus the amount of stockholder loans it is permitted to borrow under the law. The ratio of registered capital to total investment cannot be lower than the minimum statutory requirement. If we make loans to our operating subsidiaries in China that does not exceed its current maximum amount of borrowings, we will have to register each loan with SAFE or its local counterpart for the issuance of a registration certificate of foreign debts. In practice, it could be time-consuming to complete such SAFE registration process. Alternatively or concurrently with the loans, we might make capital contributions to our operating subsidiaries in China and such capital contributions involve uncertainties of their own. Further, SAFE promulgated a new circular (known as Circular 142) in August 2008 with respect to the administration of conversion of foreign exchange capital contributions of a foreign invested enterprise. The circular clarifies that RMB converted from foreign exchange capital contributions can only be used for the activities within the approved business scope of such foreign invested enterprise and cannot be used for domestic equity investments unless otherwise permitted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we receive from this offering and to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. If we were deemed as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we could be subject to tax on our global income at the rate of 25% under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law (“New EIT Law”) in the PRC and our non-PRC shareholders could be subject to certain PRC taxes. Under the New EIT Law and the implementing rules, both of which became effective January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC may be considered a PRC “resident enterprise” and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define “de facto management” as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. If we were to be considered a “resident enterprise” by the PRC tax authorities, our global income would be taxable under the New EIT Law at the rate of 25% and, to the extent we were to generate a substantial amount of income outside of PRC in the future, we would be subject to additional taxes. In addition, the dividends we pay to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and gains derived by such shareholders from the transfer of our shares may also be subject to PRC withholding tax at the rate up to 10%, if such income were regarded as China-sourced income. In addition, the recent circular mentioned above details that certain Chinese-invested enterprises controlled by Chinese enterprises or Chinese group enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and stockholders’ meetings; and half or more of the directors with voting rights or senior management. However, as of the date hereof, no final interpretation on the implementation of the “resident enterprise” designation is available. Moreover, any such designation, when made by PRC tax authorities, will be determined based on the facts and circumstances of individual cases. As a result, we cannot determine the likelihood or consequences of our being designated a “resident enterprise” as of the date hereof. 33 If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise,” we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide income and dividends paid by us to our non-PRC stockholders as well as capital gains recognized by them with respect to the sale of our stock may be subject to a PRC withholding tax. This will have an impact on our effective tax rate, a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, and may require us to withhold tax on our non-PRC stockholders. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and because almost all of our directors and all our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to use the United States Federal securities laws to enforce your rights against us and our officers and most of our directors or to enforce judgments of United States courts against us or our officers and most of our directors in the PRC. Almost all of our present officers and directors reside outside of the United States. In addition, our operating subsidiaries are located in the PRC and substantially all of their assets are located outside of the United States. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States Federal securities laws against us and our officers and most of our directors in the courts of either the United States or the PRC and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in PRC courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and most of our directors of criminal penalties, under the United States Federal securities laws or otherwise. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur in the PRC. If our competitors engage in these practices they may receive preferential treatment, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business, which would put us at a disadvantage. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in our Stock. We have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and we may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide not to pay, or may be unable to pay, any dividends. We intend to retain all earnings for our company’s operations. 34 The market price for our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, which may adversely affect the price at which you can sell our shares. The market price for our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operations results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in foreign or domestic fertilizer and agricultural markets; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies in the same industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar; · intellectual property litigation; · general economic or political conditions in the PRC; and · Other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our officers, directors and affiliates control us through their positions and stock ownership and their interests may differ from other stockholders. Our Chairman, President and CEO, Mr. Tao Li, has the voting rights on 7,599,987, or 28.3%, of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, he is able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions, including business combinations. The interests of Mr. Li may differ from other stockholders. We may require additional financing in the future and our operations could be curtailed if we are unable to obtain required additional financing when needed. We may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing to fund future capital expenditures. Additional equity may result in dilution to the holders of our outstanding shares of capital stock. Additional debt financing may include conditions that would restrict our freedom to operate our business, such as conditions that: · limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek consent for the payment of dividends; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate purposes; and 35 · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain any additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. ITEM 