Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our ability to achieve our operating and financial goals is subject to a number of risks, including risks relating to our business operations, our ability to finance our operations, and technical risks associated with our new products. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. Our continuing decline in revenues and our net and operating losses are significant and could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Our revenues, excluding discontinued operations, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $869,662 and $1,998,183, respectively. Our net loss for 2007 and 2006, excluding discontinued operations, was $2,163,231 and $7,583,172, respectively. Failure to achieve significant sales of our new products in the future and continued losses will further reduce our shareholders’ equity and will have a significant adverse impact on our stock price. Our cash requirements are significant and the failure to generate sufficient funds from operations or obtain additional financing has had and will continue to have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and its operations. Our cash used in operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $3,682,771 and $6,019,946, respectively. These negative cash flows are primarily related to operating losses, discontinued operations, and fluctuations in working capital items caused by a change in derivative liability. We will continue to use cash in 2008 for 1) market and product development efforts, and to acquire or license products, technologies or businesses; 2) corporate costs, primarily related to the cost of being a public company; 3) preferred stock dividends; and 4) other working capital needs. Although we have been successful in raising funds in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully continue to draw down under our $7.5 million Term Note and raise additional capital in the future. The failure to draw down additional funds and raise additional capital will have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and its operations. You will experience additional dilution if the Company is not successful in selling its new products. In order to continue our new product development programs, seek corporate partners for product marketing, distribution and service and continue our internal sales and marketing activities we will need to draw down funds from our $7.5 million Term Note in order to cover these and other working capital needs in 2008. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to be able to drawn down under our $7.5 million Term Note, enter into such partnerships or raise additional financing. 7 Our outstanding preferred stock has a liquidation preference of $7,684,251, which is in excess of our total stockholders’ equity. Our currently outstanding Convertible Preferred Stock has a total Stated Value of $7,684,251 as of March 31, 2008. Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of the Company’s Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the common stock out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to the stockholders, the Stated Value per share of the Company’s Preferred Stock then outstanding and all accrued and unpaid dividends. In the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, holders of common stock may lose their entire investment. Our term loan, as well as the obligations under our Preferred Stock, are secured by the grant of a security interest in all of our assets and upon a default the lender may foreclose on all of our assets. Pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock, the Company is required to make monthly dividend payments and to make a large balloon payment due in August 2009. These obligations, as well as the Company’s obligations under its term loans with the same party (the combined outstanding balances, including accrued interest, of which were approximately $17,013,514 at December 31, 2007), are secured by the grant of a security interest in all of the Company’s assets. In the event of the Company’s failure to make such payments or to comply with the terms of the working capital line of credit, the other party can declare a default and seek to foreclose on the Company’s assets. If the Company is unable to repay or refinance such indebtedness, the holders of the Company’s common stock may lose their entire investment. If our product development programs are not successful, it will harm our business. The development of sophisticated laser-based systems and sensors, such as our BioSentry, BriteLight, and double pulse laser products, is a lengthy and capital intensive process and is subject to unforeseen risks, delays, problems and costs. We have had limited success in past product development efforts, including the failure to establish a standard semiconductor products business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop our new products, or that unanticipated technical or other problems will not occur which would result in delays in our development programs. Achieving market acceptance for our new products requires a significant effort to convince customers to adopt our products and technologies over other alternative products and technologies. In the case of each of our new product development efforts, this requires demonstrating that our products have superior performance to the alternative products and technologies and are more cost-effective. In addition to the expenditures required to complete and commercialize these products, this will require substantial technical, marketing and sales efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create customer awareness of and demand for our products. We cannot assure you that our new products will achieve significant market acceptance in the future or result in significantly increased levels of revenues. In addition to the technical performance of our products, the success of the BioSentry and other product lines is dependent in part on the Company’s estimates of the potential market for such systems. Because many of the expected markets do not presently exist or have not been penetrated for a detection system such as the BioSentry, as well as for the Company’s laser products, the Company has had to make a number of assumptions about the size and needs of such markets. As a result, the Company’s estimates about the size and nature of the expected markets for the BioSentry and other products may be inaccurate and the ultimate markets, and the actual sales of products into those markets, could be significantly less than JMAR’s current estimates reflect. If the actual markets for the new products are not of the magnitude expected, or if they do not develop at the rate the Company expects, the revenues and financial condition will be adversely affected. If our BioSentry business is unsuccessful, it will cause a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and significant accounting write-offs. If our BioSentry business area is unsuccessful over the next year in either selling significant numbers of BioSentry units or in arranging significant partnering arrangements, we will have to consider curtailing the BioSentry operations which would result in further reductions in BioSentry personnel and the write-down of a significant portion of the BioSentry assets. We depend on third party suppliers of various components for our equipment business and our business will be harmed if the supply of key components is interrupted or discontinued. Our Research Division and our Sensor Products Group are dependent on third party engineering product development and manufacturing firms and on suppliers for components used in the development and manufacture of our products. If there are delays at the engineering firm to package our systems for marketability and certain key components are delayed or unavailable, we might have to reengineer our products, resulting in delays and increased costs, or we may have to pay more to other engineering firms and suppliers to obtain those components, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, our plans contemplate that product engineering, multiple suppliers and greater volume purchases will bring down the manufacturing costs to make our new systems more competitively priced. Although we anticipate having multiple sources of supply for the components used in our future production systems, there are no assurances that additional suppliers will materialize. Our product development & engineering efforts also rely on certain complex optics. If we cannot obtain these complex optics when needed at an acceptable cost, then we may have to redesign the product, which would involve additional re-engineering, related delays and additional costs which could adversely affect our business. 8 The success of our business is dependent on our ability to compete effectively, particularly against larger, more established companies with greater resources. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. For example, although we are not aware of any products in the market for detecting and classifying microorganisms similar to our BioSentry product, water utilities and other water industry customers currently employ other products and technologies, such as filters and ultraviolet disinfection systems, to remove or neutralize microorganisms from the water supply. Similarly, for short range, up close applications of the LIBS technology, the double pulse laser is not required, in which case the advantages provided by the JMAR product are minimized. Further development by others of new or improved products, processes or technologies may make our products obsolete or less competitive. Our ability to compete is dependent on our ability to continually enhance and improve our products and to successfully develop and market new products. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial and technical resources than we have. We cannot assure you that we will successfully differentiate ourselves from our competitors, that the relevant markets will consider our products to be superior to our competitors’ products or that we will be able to adapt to evolving markets and technologies, develop new products or achieve and maintain technological advantages. A substantial portion of our current revenue depends on sales to a few customers. We have relied on funding from the U.S. Department of Defense for a significant portion of our research and development activities in the past and expect significantly less funding of our new product developments from the government in the future. Over the past 10 years, our development programs received in excess of $62 million in funding under DARPA contracts, ending in 2006. In 2007 and 2006, approximately 36% and 65%, respectively, of our revenue was derived as the prime contractor or subcontractor for two government contracts. The DOD’s overall budget, and our participation therein, is subject to increases and decreases based upon a number of factors, including general budgetary constraints, shifting priorities of the specific governmental agency which sponsors the funding and our own performance under our contracts with the Government. We do not expect to receive funding from government sources in the future in excess of $2-3 million per year. The Company is relying on the sale of its new products in 2008 and beyond, together with strategic alliances, to support continued product development and successful business operations. Our BioSentry product may be subject to various governmental approvals that may limit our ability to market and sell our product. In some cases, the use of our BioSentry product by the water utility industry, the commercial water bottling industry and others may require approval by governmental regulators prior to the commercial use of such units by our customers. In other cases, the acceptance of our BioSentry product may be enhanced by certification or other approvals by industry groups or government regulators. The failure to obtain approval of various state and federal agencies could adversely impact the sale of our BioSentry products Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including the risk factors set forth in this section. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional, highly skilled personnel required for the expansion of our activities, our business will suffer. In order to reduce costs, in 2007 we laid-off several employees and several key employees resigned, including our Chief Financial Officer (who resigned to pursue other interests) and who has been replaced. Our success is substantially dependent on the efforts of certain key personnel. In particular, our nanotechnology product development efforts rely on the skill of several key laser and laser plasma scientists and engineers and our BioSentry product development effort relies on the skills of several key technical personnel in the areas of scattered-light-based detection systems, algorithms used to interpret the results of scattered light and microorganism morphology, as well as personnel experienced in the water industry. The loss of such personnel would adversely affect our business and prospects. In such event, we cannot assure you that we would be able to employ qualified persons on terms favorable to us. In seeking and retaining qualified personnel, we are required to compete with companies having greater financial and other resources than we have. Since our future success is dependent upon our ability to retain or attract qualified personnel, our failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our business. Asserting, defending and maintaining intellectual property rights is difficult and costly and the failure to do so could harm our ability to compete and the results of our operations. We rely to a significant extent on patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot assure you as to the breadth or degree of protection which existing or future patents, if any, may afford us, or that patents will not be circumvented or invalidated, or that our products do not and will not infringe on patents or violate proprietary rights of others. In the event a patent infringement claim is asserted against us, or we are required to enforce our rights under an issued patent, the cost of such actions may be very high, whether or not we are successful. While we are unable to predict what such costs, if any, will be if we are obligated to pursue patent litigation, our ability to fund our operations and to pursue our business goals may be impaired. Our BioSentry product uses scattered light to detect particles in fluids. This field is the subject of substantial patent activity. We have entered into License Agreements with Point Source Technologies and The LXT Group, covering the license of technologies related to the BioSentry product area. Although JMAR believes that the patents and technology licenses from Point Source and LXT, as well as the technology that we have developed in-house, provide adequate coverage for our current BioSentry product, we can give no assurances that the technologies that we want or need to use in the future in this field may not infringe on the patents or proprietary rights of others. If we need to use technologies owned by third parties in connection with our BioSentry products and cannot license them on reasonable terms, our ability to develop, manufacture and commercialize our BioSentry products will be adversely impacted, which would adversely affect our business and our stock price. 9 If our outstanding options and warrants are exercised and if our preferred stock is converted it will result in substantial dilution. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding 53,839,559 shares of common stock. Substantially all of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act. Affiliates may sell the shares they own pursuant to Rule 144, subject to certain notice filing and volume limitations. As of December 31, 2007, there were 133,689,415 shares of common stock subject to issuance upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants. As of March 31, 2008, we had outstanding $7,684,251 stated value of Series G, I and J Convertible Preferred Stock. The outstanding Series G and I Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.15 per share and the outstanding Series J Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of common stock at between $0.1022 and $0.12 per share. Subject to a contractual limitation on total beneficial ownership by Laurus to 9.99% of our common stock, the Series G, I and J Preferred Stock are convertible into a total of 20,065,472 shares of Common Stock. To the extent that outstanding options and warrants are exercised prior to their expiration dates, additional funds will be paid into us at the expense of dilution to the interests of our stockholders. Moreover, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital may be adversely affected since the holders of outstanding options and warrants and other securities can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable to us than those provided in such securities. The sale of the shares issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and options and conversion of our Convertible Note and Preferred Stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If product liability claims are brought which exceed our liability insurance limits our business would be harmed. We may be exposed to potential product liability claims arising out of the use of our products. Although we maintain product liability insurance on certain former products, we cannot assure you that such insurance will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that the present level of coverage will be available in the future at a reasonable cost. A partially or completely uninsured successful claim against us could have a material adverse affect on our business. There can be no assurance that as we complete the commercialization and introduction of new products that insurance will be available on economically favorable terms or in amounts adequate to cover the risks associated with these new products. We do not presently intend to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and intend, for the foreseeable future, to retain our earnings, if any, to finance our business. Future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, debt covenants and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. Our ability to use our entire net operating loss carryforward is limited by prior changes in ownership and may be further limited in the future. We have federal net operating loss (NOL) carry-forwards of approximately $60 million at December 31, 2007. These NOLs expire incrementally through 2027. Realization of future tax benefits from utilization of our net operating loss carry-forwards for income tax purposes is limited by changes in ownership in 1990, 1992 and 1993. Of the above net operating loss carryforwards, annual limitations of approximately $658,000 apply to approximately $2.5 million of Company and acquired company loss carryforwards. Approximately $57.7 million of the net operating loss carryforwards are not subject to annual limitations. Due to our taxable losses, we have been unable to take advantage of the benefits of these NOLs. The realization of the benefits of these NOLs is dependent upon our recognition of taxable income in the future prior to the expiration of the NOLs. If we issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than the common stock, it could result in the decrease in market price of the common stock and could delay or prevent a change in control of us. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 738,329 shares of Series G, I and J Preferred Stock were outstanding as of March 31, 2008. As a result, 4,261,671 shares of Preferred Stock are available for issuance in the future. Our Board of Directors has the power to establish the dividend rates, liquidation preferences, voting rights, redemption and conversion terms and privileges with respect to any series of preferred stock. The issuance of any shares of preferred stock having rights superior to those of the common stock may result in a decrease in the value or market price of the common stock. Holders of preferred stock may have the right to receive dividends, certain preferences in liquidation and conversion rights. The issuance of preferred stock could, under certain circumstances, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us without further vote or action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. 