Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we continue to incur operating losses, and are unable to raise additional operating capital, we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to curtail or cease our operations. We have incurred operating losses since our inception in 1988, and will continue to do so for at least several more years. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was approximately $73,206,000, and we have continued to incur losses since that date. The losses have resulted principally from expenses of research and development and from general and administrative expenses. If these losses continue, they could cause the value of our stock to decline. We believe our existing available cash, cash equivalents and accounts receivable, in combination with anticipated contract research payments and revenues received from the transfer of clinical testing materials, will not be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital requirements during 2009. Substantial additional capital resources will be required to fund continuing expenditures related to our research, development, manufacturing and business development activities. If we do not raise adequate funds, we will be required to significantly curtail or cease our operations, and may have to sell or license out significant portions of our technology or potential products. We believe there may be a number of alternatives to meeting the continuing capital requirements of our operations, including additional collaborative agreements and public or private financings. However, these alternatives may not be consummated in the necessary time frames needed for continuing operations or on terms favorable to us, if at all. From April, 2006 to September 2007, one of our stockholders provided financing to us to support our operations (see references to Szulik loan). As of January 9, 2008, we issued a new note in the principal amount of $6,415,000. This note replaced the previous note and included the then $5,876,000 outstanding principal balance plus the then $539,000 outstanding in accrued interest on the old note. On September 1, 2008, the scheduled maturity date of the 1/09/08 Note was extended to March 31, 2009, and on March 31, 2009, the 1/09/08 Note was extended to September 30, 2009. In September 2007, the Company entered into a stock purchase agreement that has been used to fund operations since that time. In addition, from October 2008 through June 2009, the Company has entered into debt financing agreements to fund operations. In the event that future funding through the stock purchase agreement or other debt financing agreements fail to materialize, on a timely basis, we will be forced to further curtail or cease operations. Our year end audited financial statements contain a “going concern” explanatory paragraph, in which our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue operating as a going concern. Our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 included herein have been prepared on the basis of accounting principles applicable to a going concern. Our auditors’ report on the financial statements contained herein includes an additional explanatory paragraph following the opinion paragraph on our ability to continue as a going concern. A note to these financial statements describes the reasons why there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and our plans to address this issue. Our December 31, 2008 financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our inability to continue as a going concern will likely result in a ceasing of our operations. See, “Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 14 If we fail to establish and manage strategic partnerships, we may be prevented from developing potential products or the time required for commercializing potential products may be increased. Our principal strategy is to enter into partnerships or licensing arrangements with medical or pharmaceutical companies with appropriate marketing and distribution capabilities to reduce the time and costs for developing and commercializing our potential products. We may not be able to establish additional strategic partnerships or licensing arrangements, or, if available, they may not be on terms and conditions favorable to our business. Additionally, these arrangements generally may be terminated under various circumstances, including termination at the discretion of the strategic partner without cause or without prior notice. Termination of the arrangements could seriously harm our business and financial condition. Furthermore, our strategy may lead to multiple alliances regarding different product opportunities that are active at the same time. We may not be able to successfully manage multiple arrangements in various stages of development. We are discussing other potential collaboration agreements with prospective marketing partners. Furthermore, from time to time, we are party to certain materials evaluation agreements regarding biomedical applications of our products, polymers and technology, including applications in areas other than those identified as product candidates above. These agreements provide, or are intended to provide, for the evaluation of product feasibility. We may not be able to establish these agreements at all or do so in a timely manner and on reasonable terms. In addition, these agreements may not lead to successful product development and commercialization. We may not be able to produce commercially acceptable products because our technology is unproven. If we cannot prove our technology, we will not succeed in commercializing our products. Our technological strategy of designing and producing unique products based on genetically engineered proteins that do not have a harmful effect on biological systems, such as the human body, is commercially unproven. The process of developing products and achieving regulatory approvals is time consuming and prone to delays. We have completed only a few products that require collaboration and marketing partners, and have not generated any significant revenues from product sales. The products we are currently pursuing will require substantial further development, testing and regulatory approvals. Our research and development activities may not be successful and as such, we may not be able to produce commercially acceptable products. We must prove our products' effectiveness in clinical trials. If we are unable to successfully complete clinical trials, we may not be able to produce marketable products. Before obtaining regulatory clearance for the commercial sale of any of our products, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the potential product is safe and effective for use in humans for each particular use. Due to the inherent difficulties associated with clinical trials, we cannot guarantee that: º we will be able to complete the clinical trials successfully, if at all; º we will be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals of product candidates; or º the product candidates will result in marketable products. 15 The biomedical and surgical repair industry involves intense competition and rapid technological changes. Our business may suffer if our competitors develop superior technology. We operate in the biomedical and surgical repair markets that involve intense competition. Our competitors in those markets include major pharmaceutical, surgical product, chemical and specialized biopolymer companies, many of which have financial, technical, research and development and marketing resources significantly greater than ours. Our biomaterials are used primarily in the manufacture of end-use products for medical applications that compete with other products that rely on the use of alternative materials or components. As a result, we compete with diverse, complex and numerous rapidly changing technologies. We believe that our ability to compete will be enhanced by the breadth of our issued patent claims, our other pending patent applications and our experience in protein engineering. However, we currently do not have the resources to compete commercially without the use of collaborative agreements with third parties. Our product technology competes for corporate development and marketing partnership opportunities with numerous other biotechnology companies, research institutes, academic institutions and established pharmaceutical companies. We also face competition from academic institutions and other public and private research organizations that are conducting research and seeking patent protection, and may commercialize products on their own or through joint ventures. Although most of our competitors depend on technology other than protein engineering for developing products, we believe that several university laboratories are currently conducting research into similar protein engineering technology. Our competitors may succeed in developing products based on our technology or other technologies that are more effective than the ones we are developing, or that would render our technology and products obsolete and non-competitive, which may harm our business. We have not developed a process to manufacture our products on a commercially viable scale. We will lose potential revenues if we cannot manufacture products on a commercial scale. To date, we have manufactured only limited amounts of our biomedical products for internal testing, initial human clinical testing and, in certain cases, evaluation and testing by corporate partners and other third parties. To obtain manufacturing approvals from the FDA for the development and commercialization of certain biomedical products, we would be required to upgrade our manufacturing facilities. We have not yet developed a process to manufacture our products on a commercial scale and may not be able to, or have another party on our behalf, develop a process at a cost or in quantities necessary to become commercially viable. We may need to evaluate alternative methods to produce commercial quantities of our products. We may not be able to successfully assess the ability of other production methods or establish contract-manufacturing arrangements to meet commercial objectives. Our business is subject to substantial regulation and may be harmed if we are unable to comply with the applicable laws. Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries affects the success of products resulting from biotechnological research. Our current operations and products are, and anticipated products and operations will be, subject to substantial regulation by a variety of local, state, federal and foreign agencies, particularly those products and operations related to biomedical applications. A few examples of the laws that govern our products and operations are: o FDA’s Good Laboratory Practices; o FDA Quality System Regulations; o Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, as amended; and o Occupational Safety and Health Act; 16 Compliance with the applicable laws and regulations is a costly and time-consuming process. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to our current operations. Although we intend to use our best efforts to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in the future, we may not be able to fully comply with the laws and regulations and as such, our business operations would be seriously harmed. Our business may be harmed if we are not able to retain key employees. As of December 31, 2008, we had two full-time employees, neither of whom have employment contracts with us, and both of whom hold Ph.D. degrees. Our success will depend largely upon the efforts of our scientists and certain of our executive officers who understand our technology and business objectives. The loss of the services of any one of these individuals would seriously harm our business opportunities and prospects. Our success also depends on the retention of scientific personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain required personnel on acceptable terms, due to the competition for experienced personnel from other biotechnology, pharmaceutical and chemical companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. We do not maintain "key-man" or similar life insurance policies with respect to these persons to compensate us in the event of their deaths, which may harm our business. We may be sued for product liability and may not have sufficient protection under our insurance policies. We may face product liability claims with respect to our technology or products either directly or through our strategic partners. We may also be exposed to potential product liability risks whenever human clinical testing is performed or upon the use of any commercially marketed medical product. We believe that our prior sales of SmartPlastic(R), ProNectin (R) F and ProNectin(R) L products do not pose any material product liability risk. To our knowledge no product liability claims have ever been made against us. Before initiating human clinical testing of our technology, we procured product liability insurance that is limited to coverage of $1,000,000 per occurrence and in the aggregate $5 million. Our current product liability insurance is limited to coverage of $1,000,000 per occurrence and in the aggregate $1,000,000 and our umbrella liability insurance is limited to coverage of $2,000,000 per occurrence and in the aggregate $2,000,000. If plaintiffs succeed in their claims against us, if any, and if the coverage under our insurance policies is insufficient, our business would be seriously harmed. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete as effectively. We have been issued 28 United States patents and 14 foreign patents, and have 3 additional pending United States patent applications. We have not yet marketed, sold, or developed our products outside the United States, except for limited amounts of ProNectin(R) F, ProNectin(R) L, and SmartPlastic(R) cell culture products. The patent position of biotechnology companies, such as ours, is highly uncertain and involves complex legal, scientific, and factual factors. For example: º patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; º patents may not issue from any of our pending patent applications or, if issued, may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology and products or provide us with any proprietary protection or competitive advantage; º our competitors may have filed patent applications or may have obtained patents and other proprietary rights relating to products or processes similar to and competitive with ours. The scope and validity of such patents may not be known or the extent to which we may be required to obtain licenses under these patents or other proprietary rights. If required, we may not be able to obtain any licenses on acceptable terms, if at all; º certain foreign intellectual property laws may not be as protective as those of the United States; or º we may enter into collaborative research and development arrangements with our strategic partners that may result in the development of new technologies or products, but may also get us involved in a dispute over the ownership of rights to any technology or products that may be so developed. 17 If we are unable to obtain patent protection, enforce our patent rights or maintain trade secrets and other protection for our products and technology, our business may be seriously harmed. We also seek to protect our intellectual property in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached or terminated. We may not have an adequate remedy for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently discovered by competitors, which would harm our business. Our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ and OTC Bulletin Board and will be difficult to sell. Our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Small Cap Market on September 20, 1999, and was delisted from the OTC Bulletin Board on May 19, 2009. Our common stock now trades on the OTC Pink Sheets. As a consequence of the delistings, it is more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. In addition, the delisting made our common stock substantially less attractive as collateral for margin and purpose loans, for investment by financial institutions under their internal policies or state investment laws, or as consideration in future capital raising transactions. Our common stock is also subject to regulation as a "penny stock." The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations that generally define "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price or exercise price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions, including listing on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market. For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, the broker-dealer must consider the suitability of the purchaser, receive the purchaser's written consent before the purchase, deliver a risk disclosure document before the purchase and disclose the commission payable for the purchase. Additionally, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The requirements of the penny stock rules restrict the ability to sell our common stock in the secondary market and the price at which our common stock can be sold. Since our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Small Cap Market and OTC Bulletin Board, we have seen a decline in our average daily trading volume, and as a result, the trading price of our common stock has experienced wide fluctuations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved staff comments as of 12/31/08. 