ITEM 1A. Risk Factors If we are unable to effectively compete against our competitors, our profits will decline. The gaming industry is highly competitive and our competitors vary considerably in size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing, and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent, and geographic diversity. We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation areas, and with various other entertainment businesses. Our competitors in each market that we participate may have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do, and there can be no assurance that they will not, in the future, engage in aggressive pricing action to compete with us. Although we believe we are currently able to compete effectively in each of the various markets in which we participate, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to do so or that we will be capable of maintaining or further increasing our current market share. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. 9 Table of Contents In recent years, many casino operators have been reinvesting in existing markets to attract new customers or to gain market share, thereby increasing competition in those markets. As companies have completed new expansion projects, supply has typically grown at a faster pace than demand in some markets, including Las Vegas, our largest market, and competition has increased significantly. For example, CityCenter, a large development of resorts and residences, opened in December 2009 in Las Vegas. The expansion of existing casino entertainment properties, the increase in the number of properties and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of our competitors have increased competition in many markets in which we operate, and this intense competition is expected to continue. These competitive pressures have and are expected to continue to adversely affect our financial performance in certain markets, including Atlantic City. In particular, our business may be adversely impacted by the additional gaming and room capacity in Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Mississippi, Missouri, Maryland, Michigan, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Illinois, Ohio, Louisiana, Ontario, South Africa, Uruguay, United Kingdom, Egypt, and/or other projects not yet announced which may be competitive in the other markets where we operate or intend to operate. Several states, such as Kentucky, Texas and Indian tribes are also considering enabling the development and operation of casinos or casino-like operations in their jurisdictions. In addition, our operations located in New Jersey and Nevada may be adversely impacted by the expansion of Indian gaming in New York and California, respectively. The recent downturn in the national economy, the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy could negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to access financing. The severe economic downturn over the past few years and adverse conditions in the local, regional, national and global markets have negatively affected our operations, and may continue to negatively affect our operations in the future. During periods of economic contraction such as recently experienced, our revenues may decrease while some of our costs remain fixed or even increase, resulting in decreased earnings. Gaming and other leisure activities we offer represent discretionary expenditures and participation in such activities may decline during economic downturns, during which consumers generally earn less disposable income. For example, key determinants of our revenues and operating performance include hotel Average Daily Rate (“ADR”), number of gaming trips and average spend per trip by our customers. Given that 2007 was the peak year for our financial performance and the gaming industry in the United States in general, we may not attain those financial levels in the near term, or at all. If we fail to increase ADR or any other similar metric in the near term, our revenues may not increase and, as a result, we may not be able to pay down our existing debt, fund our operations, fund planned capital expenditures or achieve expected growth rates, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even an uncertain economic outlook may adversely affect consumer spending in our gaming operations and related facilities, as consumers spend less in anticipation of a potential economic downturn. Furthermore, other uncertainties, including national and global economic conditions, terrorist attacks or other global events, could adversely affect consumer spending and adversely affect our operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and taxation policies, the enforcement of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to extensive gaming regulations and political and regulatory uncertainty. Regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions where we operate have broad powers with respect to the licensing of casino operations and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines and take other actions, any one of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, revenues and income from operations were negatively impacted during July 2006 in Atlantic City by a three-day government-imposed casino shutdown. Furthermore, in many jurisdictions where we operate, licenses are granted for limited durations and require renewal from time to time. For example, in Iowa, our ability to continue our gaming operations is subject to a referendum every eight years or at any time upon petition of the voters in the county in which we operate; the most recent referendum which approved our ability to continue to operate our casinos occurred in November 2010. There can be no assurance that continued gaming activity will be approved in any referendum in the future. If we do not obtain the requisite approval in any future referendum, we will not be able to operate our gaming operations in Iowa, which would negatively impact our future performance. From time to time, individual jurisdictions have also considered legislation or referendums, such as bans on smoking in casinos and other entertainment and dining facilities, which could adversely impact our operations. For example, the City Council of Atlantic City passed an ordinance in 2007 requiring that we segregate at least 75% of the casino gaming floor as a nonsmoking area, leaving no more than 25% of the casino gaming floor as a smoking area. Illinois also passed the Smoke Free Illinois Act which became effective January 1, 2008, and bans smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. The Act also bans smoking within 15 feet of any entrance, window or air intake area of these public places. These smoking bans have adversely affected revenues and operating results at our properties. The likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. 10 Table of Contents The casino entertainment industry represents a significant source of tax revenues to the various jurisdictions in which casinos operate. From time to time, various state and federal legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, including increases in tax rates, which would affect the industry. If adopted, such changes could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The acquisition, development and construction of new hotels, casinos and gaming and non-gaming venues and the expansion of existing ones could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to various factors including delays, cost overruns and other uncertainties. We intend to develop, construct and open or acquire new hotels, casinos and other gaming venues, as well as develop and manage non-gaming venues, in response to opportunities that may arise. Future development projects and acquisitions may require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third party debt, the incurrence of contingent liabilities and an increase in depreciation and amortization expense , which could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. The development and construction of new hotels, casinos and gaming venues and the expansion of existing ones, such as our recent expansion at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, as well as the development and construction of non-gaming venues such as Project Linq in Las Vegas and Caesars Palace Longmu Bay, are susceptible to various risks and uncertainties, such as: • the existence of acceptable market conditions and demand for the completed project; • general construction risks, including cost overruns, change orders and plan or specification modification, shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor, labor disputes, unforeseen environmental, engineering or geological problems, work stoppages, fire and other natural disasters, construction scheduling problems, and weather interferences; • changes and concessions required by governmental or regulatory authorities; • the ability to finance the projects, especially in light of our substantial indebtedness; • delays in obtaining, or inability to obtain, all licenses, permits and authorizations required to complete and/or operate the project; and • disruption of our existing operations and facilities. Moreover, our development and expansion projects are sometimes jointly pursued with third parties or by licensing our brands to third parties. These joint development, expansion projects or license agreements are subject to risks, in addition to those disclosed above, as they are dependent on our ability to reach and maintain agreements with third parties. For example, we made a bid with Rock Gaming LLC and other local investors for a video lottery terminal facility in Baltimore, Maryland and we can give no assurances that the bid will be awarded to us, that we will reach definitive agreements with the other parties that comprise the bid, or that the development project will be undertaken. Our failure to complete any new development or expansion project, or consummate any joint development, expansion projects or projects where we license our brands, as planned, on schedule, within budget or in a manner that generates anticipated profits, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may sell different properties as a result of our evaluation of our portfolio of businesses. Such divestitures would affect our costs, revenues, profitability and financial position. From time to time, we evaluate our properties and may, as a result, sell or attempt to sell different properties. These divestitures affect our costs, revenues, profitability and financial position. Divestitures have inherent risks, including possible delays in closing transactions (including potential difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals), the risk of lower-than-expected sales proceeds for the divested businesses, and potential post-closing claims for indemnification. In addition, current economic conditions and relatively illiquid real estate markets may result in fewer potential bidders and unsuccessful sales efforts. Expected costs savings, which are offset by revenue losses from divested properties, may also be difficult to achieve or maximize due to our fixed cost structure. We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits. In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for goodwill and other intangible assets, we test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or if a triggering event occurs. Each year, we perform a preliminary annual impairment assessment of goodwill and other non-amortizing intangible assets as of September 30. In the fourth quarter of each year, we update our preliminary assessment once we finalize our long-term operating plan and certain other 11 Table of Contents assumptions, however, as discussed below, if our estimates of projected cash flows related to these assets are not achieved, we may be subject to a future impairment charge, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of the authoritative accounting guidance for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, we test long-lived assets for impairment if a triggering event occurs. We are dependent upon our properties for future cash flows and our continued success depends on our ability to draw customers to our properties. Significant negative industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth in our business have resulted in significant write-downs and impairment charges during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, and during the period from January 28, 2008 through December 31, 2008, and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges may be required in future periods. If we are required to record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. Acts of terrorism and war, natural disasters and severe weather may negatively impact our future profits. Terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties. For example, a substantial number of our customers for our properties in Las Vegas use air travel. On September 11, 2001, acts of terrorism occurred in New York City, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. As a result of these terrorist acts, domestic and international travel was severely disrupted, which resulted in a decrease in customer visits to our properties in Las Vegas. We cannot predict the extent to which disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist act, security alerts or war, uprisings, or hostilities in places such as Iraq and Afghanistan, other countries throughout the world will continue to directly or indirectly impact our business and operating results. For example, our operations in Cairo, Egypt were negatively affected from the uprising there in January 2011. As a consequence of the threat of terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility in the future, premiums for a variety of insurance products have increased, and some types of insurance are no longer available. Given current conditions in the global insurance markets, we are substantially under insured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. If any such event were to affect our properties, we would likely be adversely impacted. In addition, natural and man-made disasters such as major fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes and oil spills could also adversely impact our business and operating results. For example, four of our properties were closed for an extended period of time due to the damage sustained from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in August and September 2005, respectively. Such events could lead to the loss of use of one or more of our properties for an extended period of time and disrupt our ability to attract customers to certain of our gaming facilities. If any such event were to affect our properties, we would likely be adversely impacted. Seven of our properties were closed during the first half of 2011 due to flooding and severe weather conditions. Additionally, in August 2011, our casinos in Atlantic City were closed during a busy summer weekend due to Hurricane Irene. In most cases, we have insurance that covers portions of any losses from a natural disaster, but it is subject to deductibles and maximum payouts in many cases. Although we may be covered by insurance from a natural disaster, the timing of our receipt of insurance proceeds, if any, is out of our control. In some cases, however, we will receive no proceeds from insurance, such as our August 2011 closing in Atlantic City. Additionally, a natural disaster affecting one or more of our properties may affect the level and cost of insurance coverage we may be able to obtain in the future, which may adversely affect our financial position. As our operations depend in part on our customers’ ability to travel, severe or inclement weather can also have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. We may be indirectly impacted by regulatory requirements aimed at reducing the impacts of climate change directed at up-stream utility providers, as we could experience potentially higher utility, fuel, and transportation costs. Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits. Some of our employees are represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppage at one of our casino properties or construction projects could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. From time to time, we have also experienced attempts to unionize certain of our non-union employees. While these efforts have achieved only limited success to date, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union activity in the future. There has been a trend towards unionization for employees in Atlantic City and Las Vegas. The impact of this union activity is undetermined and could negatively impact our profits. 12 Table of Contents Our obligation to fund multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute may have an adverse impact on us. We contribute to and participate in various multi-employer pension plans for employees represented by certain unions. We are required to make contributions to these plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. We do not administer these plans and, generally, are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. The Pension Protection Act enacted in 2006, or the PPA, requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. Based on the information available to us, some of the multi-employer plans to which we contribute are either “critical” or “endangered” as those terms are defined in the PPA. We cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans. However, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. Furthermore, under current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us, which we consider from time to time, or a mass withdrawal or insolvency of contributing employers, we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. Any termination of a multi-employer plan, or mass withdrawal or insolvency of contributing employers, could require us to contribute an amount under a plan of rehabilitation or surcharge assessment that would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We extend credit to a portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis at many of our properties. Any such credit we extend is unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than customers who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. We extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. These large receivables could have a significant impact on our results of operations if deemed uncollectible. While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of the jurisdictions in which we allow play on a credit basis and judgments in such jurisdictions on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of current or potential future acquisitions. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses of such acquired company with our businesses. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies, and may not result in the full benefits expected. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies, including our recent acquisitions of Planet Hollywood in Las Vegas and Thistledown Racetrack in Cleveland, Ohio, include, among others: • coordinating marketing functions; • undisclosed liabilities; • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; • unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods; • retaining key employees; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to realize in whole or in part the benefits anticipated for any current or future acquisitions. We may not realize any or all of our projected cost savings, which would have the effect of reducing our LTM Adjusted EBITDA, which would have a negative effect on our results of operations and negatively impact our covenant calculation and could have a negative effect on our stock price. Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, we initiated a company-wide cost savings plan in an effort to align our expenses with current revenue levels. In addition, we embarked on Project Renewal in the fourth quarter of 2010 to identify the optimum way of structuring our business given our breadth and scale of product offerings. While these efforts have allowed us to realize substantial savings since we initiated our cost savings plan, our continued reduction efforts may fail to achieve similar or continued savings. Although we believe, as of December 31, 2011, once fully implemented, these cost savings programs will produce additional estimated annual cost savings of $198.3 million, we may not realize some or all of these projected savings without impacting our revenues. Our cost savings plans are intended to increase our effectiveness and efficiency in our operations without impacting our revenues and margins. Our cost savings plan is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that may change at any time, and, therefore, our actual savings may differ materially from what we anticipate. For example, cutting advertising or marketing expenses may have an unintended negative affect on our revenues. In addition, our expected savings from procurement of goods may be affected by unexpected increases in the cost of raw materials. Furthermore, because we use our projected yet-to-be realized cost savings as a pro forma adjustment to calculate our LTM Adjusted EBITDA—Pro Forma—CEOC Restricted, our actual LTM Adjusted EBITDA would be reduced to the extent of the cost savings we do not achieve. We may be required to pay our future tax obligation on our deferred cancellation of debt income. Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or the ARRA, we will receive temporary federal tax relief under the Delayed Recognition of Cancellation of Debt Income, or CODI, rules. The ARRA contains a provision that allows for a deferral for tax purposes of CODI for debt reacquired in 2009 and 2010, followed by recognition of CODI ratably from 2014 through 2018. In connection with the debt that we reacquired in 2009 and 2010, we have deferred related CODI of $3.6 billion for tax purposes (net of Original Issue Discount (“OID”) interest expense, some of which must also be deferred to 2014 through 2018 under the ARRA). We are required to include one-fifth of the deferred CODI, net of deferred and regularly scheduled OID, in taxable income each year from 2014 through 2018. To the extent that our federal taxable income exceeds our available federal net operating loss carry forwards in those years, we will have a cash tax obligation. Our tax obligations related to CODI could be substantial and could materially and adversely affect our cash flows as a result of tax payments. For more information on the debt that we reacquired in 2009 and 2010, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation-Other Factors Affecting Net Income.” The risks associated with our international operations could reduce our profits. Some of our properties are located outside the United States, and our 2006 acquisition of London Clubs has increased the percentage of our revenue derived from operations outside the United States. International operations are subject to inherent risks including: • political and economic instability; • variation in local economies; • currency fluctuation; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • trade barriers; and • burden of complying with a variety of international laws. For example, the political instability in Egypt due to the uprising in January 2011 has negatively affected our properties there. 14 Table of Contents The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The leadership of our chief executive officer, Mr. Loveman, and other executive officers has been a critical element of our success. The death or disability of Mr. Loveman or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. We are not protected by key man or similar life insurance covering members of our senior management. We have employment agreements with our executive officers, but these agreements do not guarantee that any given executive will remain with us. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate employees, we may not be able to compete effectively and will not be able to expand our business. Our success and ability to grow are dependent, in part, on our ability to hire, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of talented people, with the increasingly diverse skills needed to serve clients and expand our business, in many locations around the world. Competition for highly qualified, specialized technical and managerial, and particularly consulting personnel, is intense. Recruiting, training, retention and benefit costs place significant demands on our resources. Additionally, our substantial indebtedness and the recent downturn in the gaming, travel and leisure sectors has made recruiting executives to our business more difficult. The inability to attract qualified employees in sufficient numbers to meet particular demands or the loss of a significant number of our employees could have an adverse effect on us. We are controlled by the Sponsors, whose interests may not be aligned with ours. Hamlet Holdings, the members of which are comprised of an equal number of individuals affiliated with each of the Sponsors, beneficially owns approximately 69.9% of our common stock pursuant to an irrevocable proxy providing Hamlet Holdings with sole voting and sole dispositive power over those shares. As a result, the Sponsors have the power to elect all of our directors. Therefore, the Sponsors have the ability to vote on any transaction that requires the approval of our Board or our stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers and the sale of substantially all of our assets. The interests of the Sponsors could conflict with or differ from the interests of other holders of our common stock. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the Sponsors could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination which another stockholder may otherwise view favorably. Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making or advising on investments in companies it holds, and may from time to time in the future acquire interests in or provide advice to businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. One or both of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisitions that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. A sale of a substantial number of shares of stock in the future by funds affiliated with the Sponsors or their co-investors could cause our stock price to decline. So long as Hamlet Holdings continues to hold the irrevocable proxy, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. In addition, we have an executive committee that serves at the discretion of our Board and is authorized to take such actions as it reasonably determines appropriate. Currently, the executive committee may act by a majority of its members, provided that at least one member affiliated with TPG and Apollo must approve any action of the executive committee. See “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance—Executive Committee” for a further discussion. Use of the “Caesars” brand name, or any of our other brands, by entities other than us could damage the brands and our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our “Caesars” brand remains the most recognized casino brand in the world and our operations benefit from the global recognition and reputation generated by our brands. Generally and through Caesars Global Life, we are actively pursuing gaming and non-gaming management, branding, and development opportunities in Asia and other parts of the world where our brands and reputation are already well-recognized assets. In September 2011, we announced a management and branding agreement for a non-gaming development, whose equity will be provided by a third party, that will be called Caesars Palace Longmu Bay. In addition, we will continue to expand our World Series of Poker tournaments to international jurisdictions where we believe there is a likelihood of legalization of online gaming, in order to grow the brand’s awareness. In connection with such opportunities, we intend to grant third parties licenses to use our brands. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by the management or the enforcement of the “Caesars” and the “World Series of Poker” brand names, or any of our other brands, by third parties outside of our exclusive control. 15 Table of Contents Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business. The development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. For example, we own and operate the World Series of Poker tournaments, and we license trademarks for a variety of products and businesses related to this brand. While our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations and technology through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws. We file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and use information that we regard as proprietary and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar laws and regulations could have a negative impact on us. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, which exposes us to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in doing business cross-border and in each of the countries in which it transacts business. We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit U.S. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the FCPA. Internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. If our employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or Company policies governing our international operations, we may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our resorts could have a negative effect on our results of operations. We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our financial condition. From time to time, we are defendants in various lawsuits or other legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to our business. The nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners, Indian tribes and others in the ordinary course of business. As with all legal proceedings, no assurance can be provided as to the outcome of these matters and in general, legal proceedings can be expensive and time consuming. For example, we may have potential liability arising from a class action lawsuit against Hilton Hotels Corporation relating to employee benefit obligations. We may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our senior secured credit facilities, the CMBS mortgage loan and/or related mezzanine loans the (“CMBS Loans”), the indentures governing most of our existing notes, the senior secured loans related to the development of Octavius Tower at Caesars Palace Las Vegas and Project Linq, the senior secured loan of PHW Las Vegas, LLC and the senior secured notes of Chester Downs contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; 16 Table of Contents • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens on certain assets; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. We have pledged and will pledge a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our senior secured credit facilities, our CMBS Loans, our first lien notes, our second lien notes, the senior secured loan of PHW Las Vegas, LLC, or PHW Las Vegas, the senior secured loan related to the development of the Octavius Tower at Caesars Palace Las Vegas, the Octavius Tower or Project Octavius, and a retail, dining and entertainment corridor located between the Imperial Palace Hotel and Casino and the Flamingo Las Vegas on the Las Vegas strip, or Project Linq, or the senior secured notes of Chester Downs. If any of these lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. Under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities or our other indebtedness could result in an event of default under the facilities or the existing agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of any default under our senior secured credit facilities or our other indebtedness, the lenders thereunder: • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us; • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit; or • require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. Such actions by the lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities, our CMBS financing and our first and second lien notes could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the indebtedness under our first and second lien notes, senior secured credit facilities, CMBS financing or our other indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments. We are a highly leveraged company. As of December 31, 2011, we had $22,657.9 million face value of outstanding indebtedness and our current debt service obligation for the next 12 months is $1,693.0 million, which includes required interest payments of $1,647.7 million. As of December 31, 2011, CEOC had $19,088.5 million face value of outstanding indebtedness including $1,462.1 million owed to Caesars Entertainment, and CEOC’s debt service obligation for the next 12 months is $1,606.5 million, which includes required interest payments of $1,561.2 million. In February 2012, subsidiaries of CEOC completed the offering of $1,250.0 million in first lien notes, and used the majority of the proceeds to pay down certain Term Loans. Also in February 2012, Chester Downs issued $330.0 million in bonds, using a majority of the proceeds to pay off its senior secured loans. In addition, on March 1, 2012, CEOC’s credit agreement was amended to create a new tranche of term loan due in 2018 and to revise interest rates on certain tranches of term loans outstanding. The full terms of these transactions are described in Note 22, “Subsequent Events,” to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Had these transactions occurred on December 31, 2011, we would have had $22,983.4 million face value of outstanding indebtedness and our current debt service obligation for the next 12 months would be $1,764.8 million, which includes required interest payments of $1,741.3 million. As of December 31, 2011, CEOC would 17 Table of Contents have had $19,414.0 million face value of outstanding indebtedness including $1,462.1 million owed to Caesars Entertainment, and CEOC’s debt service obligation for the next 12 months would be $1,678.3 million, which includes required interest payments of $1,654.8 million. Our substantial indebtedness could: • limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; • make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, developing new gaming facilities, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; • affect our ability to renew gaming and other licenses; • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets; and • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt. This could intensify the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial indebtedness at any time, and from time to time, including in the near future. Although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, as of December 31, 2011, we had $938.2 million available for additional borrowing under our senior secured revolving credit facility after giving effect to $113.5 million in outstanding letters of credit thereunder, all of which would be secured. None of our existing indebtedness limits the amount of debt that may be incurred by Caesars Entertainment. Our senior secured credit facilities allow for one or more future issuances of additional secured notes or loans, which may include, in each case, indebtedness secured on a pari passu basis with the obligations under the senior secured credit facilities and our first lien notes. This indebtedness could be used for a variety of purposes, including financing capital expenditures, refinancing or repurchasing our outstanding indebtedness, including existing unsecured indebtedness, or for general corporate purposes. We have raised and expect to continue to raise debt, including secured debt, to directly or indirectly refinance our outstanding unsecured debt on an opportunistic basis, as well as development opportunities. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. If we are unable to satisfy or refinance our debt obligations as they come due, we cannot assure you that your investment in our company will retain any value. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things: • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and • our future ability to borrow under our senior secured credit facilities, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in our senior secured credit facilities. 18 Table of Contents We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or unable to draw under our senior secured credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. As of December 31, 2011, $11.1 billion face value of our indebtedness is scheduled to mature in 2015 (assuming the extension options with respect to the CMBS Financing and PHW Las Vegas senior secured loan are exercised), representing 49% of the total face value of our debt. In March 2012 we extended the maturity of $2.7 billion face value of debt from 2015 to 2018. For a discussion of our debt maturities, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Guarantees of Third-Party Debt and Other Obligations and Commitments-Contractual Obligations.” We do not expect that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to repay this indebtedness, and we will have to seek a refinancing. We cannot predict at this time whether we will be able to secure any such refinancing, even if market conditions and our financial condition improve between now and then. The market for CMBS financings has substantially decreased since we raised the CMBS financing and it is uncertain whether we will be able to refinance the entire outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness that will be due in 2015, including the CMBS Financing. Even if refinancing alternatives were available to us, we may not find them suitable or at comparable interest rates to the indebtedness being refinanced. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from securing a refinancing on terms that are available to us at that time. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we would face substantial liquidity problems and would likely be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. We could also be required to reorganize our Company in its entirety. Neither the Sponsors nor any of their respective affiliates has any continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing. Even if we are able to refinance our debt, any refinancing could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. For example, the interest rates on our first and second lien notes are substantially higher than the interest rates under our senior secured credit facility. If we are unable to service our debt obligations generally, and if we are unable to refinance our debt obligations that mature in 2015 or thereafter, we cannot assure you that our company will continue in its current state or that your investment in our company will retain any value. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop. Prior to our listing in February 2012, there has not been a public market for our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to the development of an active trading market or how liquid that market might become. Our shares may be less liquid than the shares of other newly public companies and there may be imbalances between supply and demand for our shares. As a result, our share price may experience significant volatility and may not necessarily reflect the value of our expected performance. If an active trading market does not develop, owners of our common stock may have difficulty selling any of our common stock. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of shares of our common stock. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. As of March 9, 2012, there were 125,297,197 shares outstanding all of which are the same class of voting common stock. All of the outstanding shares of our common stock will be eligible for resale under Rule 144 or Rule 701 of the Securities Act, subject to volume limitations, applicable holding period requirements and certain lockup agreements related to certain of our shareholders and management described below or other contractual restrictions. The Sponsors have the ability to cause us to register the resale of its shares, and our management members who hold shares will have the ability to include their shares in such registration. In connection with the Co-Investors Transaction, we filed a shelf prospectus to register 22,339,143 shares of our common stock for resale on a continuous basis by the Participating Co-Investors, subject to the lockup agreements described herein. We may issue shares of common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments or for any other reason that our board of directors deems advisable. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares of common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. 19 Table of Contents We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or other securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock or other securities, including future sales by the Sponsors, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares of common stock issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The price and trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent a holder of our common stock from being able to sell their shares. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • conditions that impact demand for our products and services; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who track our common stock; • market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • changes in government and environmental regulation, including gaming taxes; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • arrival and departure of key personnel; • changes in our capital structure; • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; • the expiration of contractual lockup agreements; and • changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war and responses to such events. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in the gaming, lodging, hospitality and entertainment industries. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. Our stockholders are subject to extensive governmental regulation and if a stockholder is found unsuitable by the gaming authority, that stockholder would not be able to beneficially own our common stock directly or indirectly. In many jurisdictions, gaming laws can require any of our stockholders to file an application, be investigated, and qualify or have his, her or its suitability determined by gaming authorities. Gaming authorities have very broad discretion in determining whether an applicant should be deemed suitable. Subject to certain administrative proceeding requirements, the gaming regulators have the authority to deny any application or limit, condition, restrict, revoke or suspend any license, registration, finding of suitability or approval, or fine any person licensed, registered or found suitable or approved, for any cause deemed reasonable by the gaming authorities. For additional information on the criteria used in making determinations regarding suitability, see “Governmental Regulation” For example, under Nevada gaming laws, each person who acquires, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of any voting security, or beneficial or record ownership of any non-voting security or any debt security, in a public corporation which is registered with the Nevada Gaming Commission, or the Gaming Commission, may be required to be found suitable if the Gaming Commission has reason to believe that his or her acquisition of that ownership, or his or her continued ownership in general, would be inconsistent with the declared public policy of Nevada, in the sole discretion of the Gaming Commission. Any person required by the Gaming Commission to be found suitable shall apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Gaming Commission’s request that he or she should do so and, together with his or her application for suitability, deposit with the Nevada Gaming Control Board, or the Control Board, a sum of money which, in the sole discretion of the Control Board, will be adequate to pay the anticipated costs and charges incurred in the investigation and processing of that application for suitability, and deposit such additional sums as are required by the Control Board to pay final costs and charges. Additionally, under Ohio law, an institutional investor, which is broadly defined and includes any corporation that holds any amount of our stock, will be required to apply for and obtain a waiver of suitability determination. 20 Table of Contents Furthermore, any person required by a gaming authority to be found suitable, who is found unsuitable by the gaming authority, may not hold directly or indirectly the beneficial ownership of any voting security or the beneficial or record ownership of any nonvoting security or any debt security of any public corporation which is registered with the gaming authority beyond the time prescribed by the gaming authority. A violation of the foregoing may constitute a criminal offense. A finding of unsuitability by a particular gaming authority impacts that person’s ability to associate or affiliate with gaming licensees in that particular jurisdiction and could impact the person’s ability to associate or affiliate with gaming licensees in other jurisdictions. Many jurisdictions also require any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than a certain percentage of voting securities of a gaming company and, in some jurisdictions, non-voting securities, typically 5%, to report the acquisition to gaming authorities, and gaming authorities may require such holders to apply for qualification or a finding of suitability, subject to limited exceptions for “institutional investors” that hold a company’s voting securities for investment purposes only. Some jurisdictions may also limit the number of gaming licenses in which a person may hold an ownership or a controlling interest. In Indiana, for example, a person may not have an ownership interest in more than two Indiana riverboat owner’s licenses. Because we have not paid dividends since the Acquisition and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, holders of our common stock should not expect to receive dividends on shares of our common stock. We have no present plans to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and, for the foreseeable future, intend to retain all of our earnings for use in our business. The declaration of any future dividends by us is within the discretion of our Board and will be dependent on our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, as well as any other factors deemed relevant by our Board. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the Nasdaq rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Hamlet Holdings controls a majority of our voting common stock. As a result, we will be a “controlled company” within the meaning of Nasdaq corporate governance standards. Under the Nasdaq rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and we have elected not to comply with certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the Board consists of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. As a result of these exemptions, we do not have a majority of independent directors nor do our nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors and we are not required to have an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. Accordingly, a holder of our common stock will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq corporate governance requirements. Our bylaws and certificate of incorporation contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our bylaws and our certificate of incorporation may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our directors. These provisions include: • establishing a classified board of directors; • establishing limitations on the removal of directors; • permitting only an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the Board to fix the number of directors; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; 21 Table of Contents • empowering only the Board to fill any vacancy on the Board, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent if less than 50.1% of our outstanding common stock is controlled by the Sponsors; • prohibiting amendments to the bylaws without the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the Board or the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the total voting power of the outstanding shares entitled to vote; • prohibiting amendments to the certificate of incorporation relating to stockholder meetings, amendments to the bylaws or certificate of incorporation, or the election or classification of the Board without the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote on any matter; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Our issuance of shares of preferred stock could delay or prevent a change of control of us. Our Board has the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Furthermore, the existence of the foregoing provisions, as well as the significant common stock controlled by Hamlet Holdings, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or may contain “forward-looking statements” intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. Further, statements that include words such as “may,” “will,” “project,” “might,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “could,” “would,” “estimate,” “continue” or “pursue,” or the negative of these words or other words or expressions of similar meaning may identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are found at various places throughout the report. These forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those relating to future actions, new projects, strategies, future performance, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and future financial results, wherever they occur in this report, are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of our management and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors set forth above and from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to the risk factors set forth above, important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements include without limitation: • the impact of our substantial indebtedness; • the impact, if any, of unfunded pension benefits under multi-employer pension plans; • the effects of local and national economic, credit and capital market conditions on the economy in general, and on the gaming industry in particular; • construction factors, including delays, increased costs of labor and materials, availability of labor and materials, zoning issues, environmental restrictions, soil and water conditions, weather and other hazards, site access matters and building permit issues; • the effects of environmental and structural building conditions relating to our properties; 22 Table of Contents • our ability to timely and cost-effectively integrate companies that we acquire into our operations; • our ability to realize the expense reductions from our cost savings programs; • access to available and reasonable financing on a timely basis; • changes in laws, including increased tax rates, smoking bans, regulations or accounting standards, third-party relations and approvals, and decisions, disciplines and fines of courts, regulators and governmental bodies; • litigation outcomes and judicial and governmental body actions, including gaming legislative action, referenda, regulatory disciplinary actions and fines and taxation; • the ability of our customer-tracking, customer loyalty and yield-management programs to continue to increase customer loyalty and same-store or hotel sales; • our ability to recoup costs of capital investments through higher revenues; • acts of war or terrorist incidents, severe weather conditions, uprisings or natural disasters; • access to insurance on reasonable terms for our assets; • abnormal gaming holds (“gaming hold” is the amount of money that is retained by the casino from wagers by customers); • the potential difficulties in employee retention and recruitment as a result of our substantial indebtedness, the ongoing downturn in the gaming industry, or any other factor; • the effects of competition, including locations of competitors and operating and market competition; and • the other factors set forth under “Risk Factors” above. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents 