ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those listed below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock. We have a history of operating losses and an investment in our common stock is extremely speculative and involves a high degree of risk. We reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $277,000 and $840,000 in 2004 and 2003, respectively. We reported a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $1,192,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. We reported an accumulated deficit of $25,897,000 as of December 31, 2005. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and maintain profitability during 2006 and beyond. Accordingly, an investment in our common stock is extremely speculative in nature and involves a high degree of risk. Our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon our ability to maintain our financing arrangements. On December 30, 2005, we entered into a four year, $5.6 million credit facility with Healthcare Finance Group. The new facility includes a $3.6 million revolving accounts receivable-based line of credit and up to $2.0 million of term loans to fund acquisitions. The credit facility requires that the Company maintain certain financial and other covenants. If we are unable to maintain the covenants we may lose the credit facility and not only not be able to make acquisitions that could be helpful to our business, but we also would not have enough resources to repay the current debt. In addition, our credit facility restricts our ability to complete large acquisitions without Healthcare Finance Group’s consent. Our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon our ability to provide additional transcription services to existing and new customers at reasonable prices. The market for transcription services is extremely cost competitive. Our future growth is dependent on our ability to attract new customers and our ability to sell additional transcription services to our existing customers. We cannot predict whether or not we will continue to provide transcription services to our existing customers at their current levels, if at all. If we are unable to attract new customers or sell additional services to our existing customers, our revenue will likely decline. We may not be able to recruit and hire a sufficient number of new or replacement medical language specialists to sustain or grow our current level of revenue. We cannot provide transcription services to our customers within contracted delivery standards without an adequate number of qualified medical language specialists (“MLS’s”). MLS’s are in short supply. We rely upon in-house recruiters to hire a sufficient number of qualified MLS’s to meet our current and projected needs. We attempt to attract and retain MLS’s by offering competitive pay and benefits and the opportunity to work from home utilizing our state-of-the-art, Internet-based system. We are transitioning a 8 Table of Contents large portion of our business from typing to editing, which we believe will allow us to attract a new supply of MLS’s. We also have the option of sourcing labor offshore. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of MLS’s to meet our needs. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to undertake additional business or to complete projects in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical and managerial personnel, especially highly skilled technical, implementation and production management personnel who assist in the development, implementation and production management of the medical transcription service that we provide to our customers. The market for such individuals is intensely competitive. Due to the critical role of our system development, implementation and production management personnel, the inability to recruit successfully or the loss of a significant number of these personnel would have a material adverse effect on us. Our industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. The loss of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends in part on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapid technological change. Our ability to remain competitive in the medical transcription industry is based on our ability to utilize state-of-the-art technology in the services that we provide to our customers. Accordingly, we have a substantial ongoing commitment to research and development. In this regard, we are currently investing in voice recognition and natural language processing technologies to yield faster turnaround times, better workflow management and increased productivity, all of which are essential for us to remain competitive. If we are unable to identify and implement technological changes in a timely manner, we may lose a portion of our market share, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Reliance on key third party software. Portions of our BeyondTXT speech recognition technology were provided to us by a third party under a one-year, non-exclusive license that is renewable for up to six successive one-year periods. Our inability to maintain the relationship with this third party or find a suitable replacement for the technology would adversely affect our results of operations. Lack of a disaster recovery site. In the case of a natural disaster or other disaster involving our main computer center in Atlanta, Georgia we would have no ability to transfer the processing of data to another site. Our inability to continue to transcribe for customers would adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market and can make no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The market for medical transcription services is intensely competitive. We experience competition from many local, regional and national businesses. The medical transcription services market is highly fragmented with more than 1,000 companies competing in the United States alone. Our largest domestic competitors are MedQuist, Inc., Spheris, Heartland, CBay Systems, Transolutions, Webmedx, TSI and Cymed. In addition, the medical transcription industry in the United States has experienced price competition from overseas competitors located primarily in India and the Philippines. While we attempt to compete on the basis of fast, predictable turnaround times and consistently high accuracy and document quality, all offered at a reasonable price, there can be no assurance that we be able to compete effectively, if at all, against our low-priced competitors. These competitive forces could result in loss of market share, lower margins and/or increased technology investments. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We are party to litigation that could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Lady of the Lakes Hospital, Inc., a former customer of our former medical records contract management business, filed a lawsuit against us in 2001 alleging, among other things, that we breached certain contracts between us, including a staffing and management servicing contract, a transcription platform agreement and a marketing agreement. The former customer is seeking an unspecified amount of monetary damages from us. We denied the allegations and filed a counterclaim against the former customer seeking unpaid fees and interest thereon. While we believe that we have meritorious defenses against the allegations, an adverse judgment in the lawsuit against us could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our directors and executive officers own a significant amount of our common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence on matters requiring shareholder approval. Our directors and executive officers collectively own approximately 28% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, together they continue to be able to exert significant influence over the election of our directors, the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval and our business, which may have the effect of delaying or precluding a third party from acquiring control of us. These transactions may include those that other shareholders deem to be in their best interest and in which these other shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over current market prices. The market price for our common stock is extremely volatile which could cause you to lose a significant portion of your investment. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to certain factors, such as variations in our anticipated or actual results of operations, the operating results of other companies in the medical transcription industry, changes in conditions affecting the economy generally, general trends in the healthcare industry, sales of common stock by our insiders, as well as other factors unrelated to our operating results. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares. 