ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those listed below, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. Any of these risks could also materially affect the business, financial condition or the price of Transcend common stock. Risks Related to the Economy Changes to the overall economic environment could negatively impact operating results or access to capital Although healthcare is generally considered to be a recession-resistant industry, negative changes to the overall economic environment can impact the Company in a number of ways, including the following: • Reduced demand for healthcare services could result in reduced demand for transcription services; • Deterioration in the financial health of customers could result in greater write-offs and reduced future revenue; • Reduced access to capital or deterioration in terms available could result in a decreased ability to fund growth through acquisitions or increased costs related to funding such growth; • Deterioration in the financial health of partners could result in service or product interruptions which could negatively impact the business. • Changes in tax regulations could negatively impact operating results Risks Related to the Business The Company has a history of operating losses and an investment in Transcend common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. The Company reported net income of $1.5 million for 2006, net income of $9.7 million in 2007 (including a large one-time deferred tax asset valuation allowance adjustment) and net income of $5.8 million in 2008. However, due to previous reported net losses, an accumulated deficit of approximately $9.0 million as of December 31, 2008 was reported. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain profitability during 2009 and beyond. If the Company is unable to maintain profitability, the market price for Transcend common stock may decline, perhaps substantially. Accordingly, an investment in Transcend common stock is speculative in nature and involves a high degree of risk. The Company’s operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause Transcend stock price to decline. Revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and management expects revenue and operating results to continue to fluctuate in the future. Given this fluctuation, management believes that quarter to quarter comparisons of revenue and operating results are not necessarily an accurate indicator of future performance. As a result, results of operations may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future. If this occurs, the price of Transcend stock would likely decline. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in the Company’s operating results include the following: • slowing sales to new and existing customers; • loss of customers; • volume, timing and fulfillment of customer contracts; • inability to control expenses; • acquisitions of or mergers with existing businesses, including transaction costs, which are expensed in the period incurred; 10 Table of Contents • introduction of new products or services by the Company or its competitors; • seasonality in purchasing patterns of customers • reduction in the prices of services in response to competition or market conditions; • timing of significant marketing and sales promotions; • impairment charges against goodwill and other intangible assets; • write-offs of accounts receivable that are not collectible; • increased expenditures incurred pursuing acquisitions of businesses and/or new product or market opportunities; • general economic trends as they affect sales; • higher than anticipated unit costs related to fixed unit price contracts with customers; • disruptions in, or increases in costs related to, the services provided by offshore partners; and • failure of the telecommunications and technology infrastructure related to receiving, processing and/or distributing work. Due to the foregoing factors, among others, the Company’s revenue and operating results may differ from forecasts. The Company’s expense levels are based in significant part on management’s expectations of future revenue, and management may not be able to reduce expenses quickly to respond to a shortfall in projected revenue. Therefore, a failure to meet revenue expectations could seriously harm operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon the ability to maintain financing arrangements. On December 30, 2005, the Company entered into a four year, $5.6 million credit facility with Healthcare Finance Group (HFG). The facility includes a $3.6 million accounts receivable-based revolving promissory note and up to $2.0 million of term loans to fund acquisitions. The credit facility requires that the Company abide by certain financial and other covenants. If the Company were unable to abide by the covenants, the Company may be in default of the credit facility and may not be able to make acquisitions that could be helpful to the business, and may not have enough resources to repay debt which could be incurred. In addition, the credit facility restricts the ability to complete large acquisitions without HFG’s consent. The Company may not be able to obtain HFG’s consent to a transaction in a timely manner, or at all, which could impede our ability to consummate an acquisition that our Board of Directors deems to be in the Company’s best interest. The Company has grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which could dilute existing stockholders and could involve substantial integration risks. As part of our business strategy, the Company has in the past acquired, and expects to continue to acquire, other businesses and technologies. In connection with past acquisitions, the Company issued a substantial number of shares of Transcend common stock as transaction consideration and also incurred significant debt to finance the cash consideration. The Company may continue to issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of the acquisition. The Company may also incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions, which, if available at all, may place additional restrictions on the ability to operate the business. Furthermore, prior acquisitions required substantial integration and management efforts. Acquisitions of this nature involve a number of risks, including: • difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, including different and complex accounting and financial reporting systems; • potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management; 11 Table of Contents • potential difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of finance and accounting systems; • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into products and technology; • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; • management of geographically remote offices and operations; • impairment of relationships with partners and customers; • customers delaying purchases of services pending resolution of integration between existing and newly acquired services or technology platforms; • entering markets or types of businesses in which management has limited experience; and • potential loss of customers or key employees of the acquired company. As a result of these and other risks, the Company may not realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could seriously harm the business. The ability to execute the Company’s acquisition strategy is dependent upon its ability to secure financing. The existing credit facility with HFG, which expires on December 31, 2009, provides for up to $2.0 million of term loans to fund acquisitions. Failure to secure acquisition financing would prevent us from executing our acquisition strategy and therefore limit the ability to grow. The ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon the ability to retain customers. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, the Company experienced high customer retention levels. Customer retention is largely dependent on providing quality service at competitive prices. Customer retention may also be impacted by events outside of the Company’s control such as changes in customer ownership, management or financial condition and competitors’ sales efforts. Management cannot guarantee that service levels and cost of our services will be perceived by customers as adding value sufficient to retain the business. If the Company experiences a lower than expected rate of customer retention, the resulting loss of business could adversely affect operating results and financial condition. The ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon the ability to sell transcription services to new customers. The medical transcription market is highly competitive. Generally, customers change providers only when the service provided does not meet their quality standards and/or the cost of services is greater than a competitor’s prices. Management cannot guarantee the Company will be able to sell services to new customers to grow revenue. If the Company is not able to sell services to new customers successfully, operations may not be profitable. Failure to grow revenue could adversely impact operating results and financial condition. The ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent on continuing demand for traditional medical transcription services. There are alternatives to traditional transcription. Some electronic medical record products contain “point-and-click” templates which attempt to reduce the need for transcription. These solutions are most frequently deployed in ambulatory settings (clinics and physician offices) as opposed to acute care settings (hospitals). Although the inherent complexity of documentation in the acute care setting would appear to mitigate the adoption of template-based solutions, there is no guarantee that in the future these products will not be 12 Table of Contents adopted in the acute care environment. A second alternative to traditional transcription is to have physicians document patient encounters and procedures themselves by presenting them with a speech-recognized draft of their dictation and allowing them to self-edit their documents. This approach has been adopted with limited success in Radiology departments. Radiologists do not see patients, work at a computer most of the day and have short, repetitive reports, making their work more conducive to self-editing. Offsetting the savings associated with physician self-editing is the negative impact on physician patient-care productivity. Nevertheless, there is no guarantee that in the future self-editing will not become feasible in the acute care setting outside of radiology departments. There is also risk that the Company could lose some radiology revenue over time. If these transcription replacement technologies become feasible in the acute care setting and if the Company is unable to provide solutions based upon such technologies, the ability to sustain and grow profitable operations could be impaired. Purchase accounting treatment of acquisitions or impairment of acquired intangible assets could decrease net income in the future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the market value of Transcend common stock. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Company has accounted for acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, the market value of Transcend common stock or other form of consideration issued in connection with the acquisition as the cost of acquiring the company or business is recorded. Then, that cost is allocated to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible assets such as acquired technology, acquired trade names and acquired customer relationships based on their respective fair values. In 2008 and going forward, the Company expensed and will expense direct transaction costs as incurred. Intangible assets generally will be amortized over a five to ten-year period, which might make future acquisitions dilutive to earnings. Goodwill and certain intangible assets with indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but are subject to at least an annual impairment analysis, which may result in an impairment charge if the carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. As of December 31, 2008, there are gross goodwill and other intangible assets of $5.5 million and accumulated amortization of $0.5 million. Factors which could trigger an impairment of such assets include the following: • significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; • significant changes in the manner of or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business; • significant negative industry or economic trends; • significant decline in Transcend stock price for a sustained period; and • a decline in the Company’s market capitalization below net book value. Future adverse changes in these or other unforeseeable factors could result in an impairment charge that would impact the results of operations and financial position in the reporting period identified. The Company may not be able to recruit and hire a sufficient number of new or replacement medical language specialists to sustain or grow the current level of revenue. The Company cannot provide transcription services to customers within contracted delivery standards without an adequate supply of qualified medical language specialists. Medical language specialists are in short supply. The Company relies upon in-house recruiters to hire a sufficient number of qualified medical language specialists to meet current and projected needs. The Company attempts to attract and retain medical language specialists by offering competitive pay and benefits and the opportunity to work from home utilizing the Company’s Internet-based system. The Company is transitioning a significant portion of the business from transcribing (typing) to editing, which allows the Company to increase the productivity of existing personnel and attract a new supply of medical language specialists. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the Company 13 Table of Contents will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of medical language specialists to meet demand. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the ability to undertake additional business or to complete projects in a timely manner, which could adversely affect operating results and financial condition. The inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could hinder the ability to maintain technology platforms and limit the ability to provide services to customers. The Company is heavily dependent upon the ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical and managerial personnel, especially highly skilled technical, implementation and production management personnel who assist in the development, implementation and production management of the medical transcription service that is provided to customers. The market for such individuals is competitive. The medical transcription industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain current personnel, or will be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could hinder the Company’s ability to maintain technology platforms and limit the ability to provide services to customers. The loss of key personnel could affect business continuity and result in a loss of significant customer relationships and institutional knowledge. The Company’s future success depends in part on the performance of executive officers and key employees. Executive officers do not have employment agreements, nor does the Company maintain key person life insurance on the lives of any executive officer or key employees. The loss of the services of any executive officer or other key employee could affect business continuity and result in a loss of significant customer relationships and institutional knowledge. Failure to adapt to rapid technological changes could result in a loss of market share. The Company’s ability to remain competitive in the medical transcription industry is based on the ability to utilize technology in the services provided to customers. Accordingly, the Company has a substantial ongoing commitment to research and development. In this regard, the Company is currently investing in the integration of voice recognition and natural language processing technologies to yield faster turnaround times, better workflow management and increased productivity, all of which are essential to remain competitive. If the Company were unable to identify and implement technological changes in a timely manner, a portion of market share could be lost, which would adversely affect results of operations. Additionally, competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially the same or superior to Transcend’s and that do not infringe the Company’s rights. In these cases, the Company would be unable to prevent competitors from utilizing, selling or licensing these similar or superior technologies. The Company’s reliance on key third-party software could affect the ability to operate competitively. Portions of the BeyondTXT technology were provided to us by Multimodal Technologies, Inc. under an agreement originally entered into on September 28, 2004. The original agreement was replaced by a new agreement, commencing September 1, 2006, that provides for a one-year, non-exclusive license that is renewable for up to four successive one-year periods at the Company’s option (the last such option period ending August 31,2011 and additional successive one-year periods if mutually agreed to by both parties. The inability to maintain the relationship with Multimodal Technologies, Inc. or find a suitable replacement for the technology at favorable prices or at all would adversely affect the ability to operate competitively and to meet the workload demands of the existing customer base. 14 Table of Contents Transcend’s operations depend on access to reliable voice and data networks and dictation capture systems. Any failure of more than one of these networks or systems, even for a short time, could harm the business. The majority of the Company’s customers depend on the BeyondTXT platform, data networks and dictation capture systems being able to process voice and data files 24 hours per day, seven days per week. If voice and data networks or dictation capture systems are unavailable, the ability to transcribe documents for customers is severely limited. The Company is heavily dependent on third parties such as telecommunications providers and dictation system vendors. Although there is redundancy across these providers and systems, any failure of more than one of these networks or systems, even for a short time, could delay the ability to provide transcription services to customers. Because the timely delivery of transcription services is vital to customers, any such delay could harm the business. The lack of a disaster recovery site could adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide continuing data processing services. The Company is in the process of creating a disaster recovery site near Atlanta, Georgia, which is expected to be fully operational by mid-2009. In the case of a natural disaster or other disaster involving the main computer center which is hosted at a co-location facility in Atlanta, Georgia, there is currently no ability to rapidly transfer the processing of data to another site. The Company would be forced to either contract for the services of another network provider at costs significantly in excess of current expenses or reconstruct the data processing center which could take a significant amount of time. The lack of a disaster recovery site could adversely affect the ability to provide continuing operations and meet contractual obligations. The Company operates in a highly competitive market and can make no assurance that it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. The medical transcription services market is highly fragmented and competitive, with several thousand local, regional and national companies competing in the United States alone. In addition, the medical transcription industry in the United States has experienced competition from overseas competitors. While the Company attempts to compete on the basis of fast, predictable turnaround times and consistently high accuracy and document quality, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete effectively, if at all, against competitors. These competitive forces could result in loss of market share, lower margins and/or increased technology investments. The Company operates in an environment with competitive pricing pressure and can make no assurance that it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors on the basis of price. Some competitors have lower cost structures than the Company does, particularly if they are small firms or operate primarily offshore. Other competitors may be willing to accept less profitable business in order to grow revenue. It is common for competitors to offer lower prices than Transcend’s. The Company attempts to position itself in the industry as a high quality provider at a mid-level price point. Accordingly, the Company may lose business on the basis of price or be forced to lower prices to win new business. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete effectively, if at all, against competitors on the basis of price. Competitive pricing pressure could result in loss of market share and lower margins. The use of offshore medical dictation subcontracting firms exposes the Company to operational and financial risks not inherent in the United States. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 19% of the Company’s transcription volume was subcontracted to offshore providers. As the Company increases reliance on these offshore providers, there will be increasing exposure to operational and financial risks not inherent in its United States operations. These risks include political, economic and social instability, unexpected changes in the regulatory environment, currency fluctuations (although our contracts are in U.S. dollars) and the possibility that offshore providers will be acquired by a competitor and discontinue their relationship with the Company. 15 Table of Contents The Company’s medical transcription services may be subject to legal claims for failure to comply with laws governing the confidentiality of medical records. Healthcare professionals who use the Company’s medical transcription services deliver health information about their patients including information that constitutes a record under applicable law that the Company may store. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, the common law and contractual obligations govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including: • state and federal privacy and confidentiality laws; • contracts with customers and partners; • state laws regulating healthcare professionals; • Medicaid laws; and • the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 establishes elements including, but not limited to, federal privacy and security standards for the use and protection of protected health information. Any failure by the Company or partners to comply with applicable requirements may result in a material liability. Although the Company has systems and policies in place for safeguarding protected health information from unauthorized disclosure, these systems and policies may not preclude claims against us for alleged violations of applicable requirements. In addition, the Company has errors and omissions insurance. There can be no assurance that the Company will not be subject to liability claims which could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition. If the Company fails to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, current stockholders and potential investors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which would harm business prospects and the trading price of Transcend stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting as of each year-end. As described below in Item 9A, management has concluded that as of December 31, 2008, internal controls over financial reporting were effective. As of December 31, 2007, however, management concluded that, as a result of a material weakness related to accounting for income taxes, the Company did not maintain effective internal controls over its financial reporting and did not provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting or the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In addition, management may identify additional and/or different control deficiencies in the future that, individually or in the aggregate, could constitute one or more additional material weaknesses. Effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports, stockholder and investor confidence in the business and operating results could be negatively impacted, which could possibly have a negative impact on the trading prices of Transcend stock and could lead to litigation claims and/or regulatory proceedings against the Company. The defense of any such claims or proceedings may cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and the Company may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in the Company’s favor. Any litigation or regulatory proceedings, even if resolved in the Company’s favor, could result in significant legal and other expenses. Such events could harm the business, negatively affect the ability to raise capital and adversely affect the trading price of Transcend stock. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Company’s Intellectual Property and Technology Unauthorized use of the Company’s proprietary technology and intellectual property will adversely affect the business and results of operations. Our success and competitive position depend in large part on the ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights protecting the Company’s services. The Company relies on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of the Company’s BeyondTXT platform or to obtain, license, sell or otherwise use information that management regards as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products is difficult and the Company may not be able to protect technology from unauthorized use. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Although the source code for the Company’s proprietary software is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work, litigation may be necessary to enforce intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, can be very expensive and can divert management efforts. Third parties may claim that the Company is infringing on their intellectual property, and the Company could be exposed to significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling its products if such claims are successful. The Company may be subject to claims of infringement or contributing to the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Management may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of the Company’s technologies. If it appears necessary or desirable, management may seek licenses for these intellectual property rights. However, the Company may not be able to obtain licenses from some or all claimants, the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable, and the Company may not be able to resolve disputes without litigation. Any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of management and key personnel from business operations. In the event of a claim of intellectual property infringement, the Company may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Third parties claiming intellectual property infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block the ability to develop technologies and sell services. If the Company does not prevail in any such disputes, the Company may be unable to use certain technologies considered to be proprietary and operating results, financial position and cash flows could be adversely impacted. The Company’s technology may have defects, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to customers and claims against the Company. Complex software products such as Transcend’s may contain errors or defects. Defects in the solutions that are developed for the Company’s use could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about the Company’s services. Customers who are not satisfied with the Company’s transcription services due to technological errors or defects may also bring claims against the Company for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm the Company’s reputation, financial results and competitive position. Risks Related to the Company’s Corporate Structure, Organization and Common Stock The Company’s directors and executive officers own a significant amount of the Company’s common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence on matters requiring stockholder approval. The Company’s directors and executive officers collectively own approximately 25% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2009. Consequently, directors and executive officers as a group will continue to be able to exert significant influence over the election of directors, the outcome of most 17 Table of Contents corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and the Company’s business, which may have the effect of delaying or precluding a third party from acquiring control of the Company. The market price for the Company’s common stock is extremely volatile which could cause a loss of a significant portion of investment. The market price of Transcend common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to certain factors, such as variations in anticipated or actual results of operations, the operating results of other companies in the medical transcription industry, changes in conditions affecting the economy generally, general trends in the healthcare industry, sales of common stock by insiders, as well as other factors unrelated to operating results. Volatility in the market price of Transcend common stock may prevent one from being able to sell shares at or above the price paid for shares. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. If the Company were the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of NASDAQ, are resulting in increased general and administrative expenses for companies. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies which could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company has and expects to continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If the Company’s efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards are not successful, the business may be harmed. The Company has implemented anti-takeover provisions, which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to stockholders. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, as well as other organizational documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Transcend, even if doing so would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include: • authorized “blank check” preferred stock; • limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of directors and for stockholder proposals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 