ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those listed below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could also materially affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock. We have a history of operating losses and an investment in our common stock is extremely speculative and involves a high degree of risk. We reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $277,000 in 2004, a net loss of $1,192,000 in 2005 and net income of $1,457,000 for 2006. We have an accumulated deficit of $24,440,000 as of December 31, 2006. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain profitability during 2007 and beyond. Accordingly, an investment in our common stock is speculative in nature and involves a high degree of risk. Our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon our ability to maintain our financing arrangements. On December 30, 2005, we entered into a four year, $5.6 million credit facility with Healthcare Finance Group (“HFG”). The facility includes a $3.6 million revolving accounts receivable-based line of credit and up to $2.0 million of term loans to fund acquisitions. The credit facility requires that the Company maintain certain financial and other covenants. If we are unable to maintain the covenants we may be in default of the credit facility and may not be able to make acquisitions that could be helpful to our business, nor have enough resources to repay the current debt. In addition, our credit facility restricts our ability to complete large acquisitions without HFG’s consent. Our ability to execute our acquisition strategy is dependent upon our ability to secure financing. Our existing credit facility with HFG provides for up to $2.0 million of term loans to fund acquisitions. In January 2007, we acquired OTP and borrowed $520,000 against the acquisition loan, thereby reducing the amount available for acquisitions to $1,480,000. We have engaged an investment banker to help locate potential acquisition candidates and financing for these acquisitions either through debt or equity or a combination thereof. Failure to secure acquisition financing would prevent us from executing our acquisition strategy and limit our ability to grow revenue. Our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon our ability to retain customers. During 2006 we experienced very low customer attrition levels. Customer retention is largely dependent on providing quality service at competitive prices. Customer retention may also be impacted by events outside of our control such as changes in customer ownership, management or financial condition and competitors’ sales efforts. We cannot guarantee that our service levels and cost of our services will be perceived by our customers as adding value sufficient to retain the business. If we experience a higher than expected rate of customer attrition, the resulting loss of business could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon our ability to sell transcription services to new customers. Our market is highly competitive. Generally, customers change providers only when the service provided does not meet their quality standards and/or the cost of services is greater than competitor’s prices. We cannot guarantee we will be able to sell our services to new customers to grow our revenue. If we are not able to sell our services to new customers successfully we will not be able to grow profitable operations. Failure to grow revenue would adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to recruit and hire a sufficient number of new or replacement medical language specialists to sustain or grow our current level of revenue. We cannot provide transcription services to our customers within contracted delivery standards without an adequate number of qualified MLS’s. MLS’s are in short supply. We rely upon in-house recruiters to hire a sufficient number of qualified MLS’s to meet our current and projected needs. We attempt to attract and retain MLS’s by offering competitive pay and benefits and the opportunity to work from home utilizing our state-of-the-art, Internet-based system. We are transitioning a significant portion of our business from typing to editing, which we believe will allow us to attract a new supply of MLS’s. We also have the option of sourcing labor offshore. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of MLS’s to meet our needs. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to undertake additional business or to complete projects in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could hinder our ability to maintain our technology platforms and limit our ability to provide services to our customers. We are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical and managerial personnel, especially highly skilled technical, implementation and production management personnel who assist in the development, implementation and production management of the medical transcription service that we provide to our customers. The market for such individuals is competitive. Our industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could hinder our ability to maintain our technology platforms and limit our ability to provide services to our customers. The loss of our key personnel could affect business continuity and result in a loss of significant customer relationships and institutional knowledge. Our future success depends in part on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could affect business continuity and result in a loss of significant customer relationships and institutional knowledge. Failure to adapt to rapid technological changes could result in a loss of market share. Our ability to remain competitive in the medical transcription industry is based on our ability to utilize state-of-the-art technology in the services that we provide to our customers. Accordingly, we have a substantial ongoing commitment to research and development. In this regard, we are currently investing in voice recognition and natural language processing technologies to yield faster turnaround times, better workflow management and increased productivity, all of which are essential for us to remain competitive. If we are unable to identify and implement technological changes in a timely manner, we may lose a portion of our market share, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our reliance on key third party software could affect our ability to operate competitively. Portions of the BeyondTXT technology were provided to us by a third party vendor under an agreement originally entered into on September 28, 2004. The original agreement was replaced by 10 Table of Contents a new agreement, commencing September 1, 2006, that provides for a one-year, non-exclusive license that is renewable for up to four successive one-year periods at Transcend’s sole option and additional successive one-year periods if mutually agreed to by both parties. Our inability to maintain the relationship with this third party or find a suitable replacement for the technology would adversely affect our ability to operate competitively and to meet the workload demands of our existing customer base. Our operations depend on access to reliable voice and data networks. About 55% of our customers depend on our voice and data networks and dictation capture systems being able to process voice and data files 24 hours per day seven days per week. If our voice and data networks or dictation capture systems are unavailable, our ability to transcribe documents for customers is severely limited. We are heavily dependent on third parties such as telecommunications providers and dictation system vendors. The lack of a disaster recovery site could affect our ability to provide continuing data processing services. In the case of a natural disaster or other disaster involving our main computer center which is hosted at a collocation facility in Atlanta, Georgia, we would have no ability to transfer the processing of data to another site. We would be forced to either contract for the services of another network provider at costs significantly in excess of our current expenses or reconstruct our data processing center which could take a significant amount of time. The lack of a disaster recovery site could affect our ability to provide continuing operations and meet our contractual obligations. We operate in a highly competitive market and can make no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The market for medical transcription services is intensely competitive. We experience competition from many local, regional and national businesses. The medical transcription services market is highly fragmented with more than 1,500 companies competing in the United States alone. In addition, the medical transcription industry in the United States has experienced price competition from overseas competitors. While we attempt to compete on the basis of fast, predictable turnaround times and consistently high accuracy and document quality, all offered at a reasonable price, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively, if at all, against our low-priced competitors. These competitive forces could result in loss of market share, lower margins and/or increased technology investments. The use of offshore medical dictation subcontracting firms exposes us to operational and financial risks not inherent in the United States. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 7% of our volume was subcontracted to offshore providers. As we increase our reliance on these offshore providers, we are exposed to operational and financial risks not inherent in our United States operations. These risks include political, economic and social instability, unexpected changes in the regulatory environment, currency fluctuations and the possibility that our offshore providers will be acquired by a competitor and discontinue their relationship with Transcend. We are party to litigation that could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A former customer of our former medical records contract management business filed a lawsuit against us in 2001 alleging, among other things, that we breached certain contracts between us, including a staffing and management servicing contract, a transcription platform agreement and a marketing agreement. The former customer is seeking an unspecified amount of monetary damages. We denied the allegations and filed a counterclaim against the former customer seeking unpaid fees and interest thereon. While we believe that we have meritorious defenses against the allegations, an adverse judgment in the lawsuit against us could have a significant effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Our directors and executive officers own a significant amount of our common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence on matters requiring shareholder approval. Our directors and executive officers collectively own approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, together they continue to be able to exert significant influence over the election of our directors, the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval and our business, which may have the effect of delaying or precluding a third party from acquiring control of us. The market price for our common stock is extremely volatile which could cause you to lose a significant portion of your investment. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to certain factors, such as variations in our anticipated or actual results of operations, the operating results of other companies in the medical transcription industry, changes in conditions affecting the economy generally, general trends in the healthcare industry, sales of common stock by our insiders, as well as other factors unrelated to our operating results. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares. 