ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital depend substantially on prevailing prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. Lower commodity prices may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. Historically, natural gas and oil prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Natural gas prices have increased from an average price of $3.99 per Mmbtu in 2009 to an average price of $4.39 per Mmbtu in 2010. Oil prices have increased from an average price of $61.80 per barrel in 2009 to an average price of $77.32 per barrel in 2010. Depressed prices in the future would have a negative impact on our future financial results. Because our reserves are predominantly natural gas, changes in natural gas prices have a particularly large impact on our financial results. Prices for natural gas and oil are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; - 20 - Table of Contents • political conditions in natural gas and oil producing regions, including the Middle East; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • the price of foreign imports; • actions of governmental authorities; • pipeline availability and capacity constraints; • inventory storage levels; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. These factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of natural gas and oil. If natural gas prices decline significantly for a sustained period of time, the lower prices may adversely affect our ability to make planned expenditures, raise additional capital or meet our financial obligations. Drilling natural gas and oil wells is a high-risk activity. Our growth is materially dependent upon the success of our drilling program. Drilling for natural gas and oil involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: • unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with governmental requirements; and • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure will have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activity within a particular geographic area may decline. We may ultimately not be able to lease or drill identified or budgeted prospects within our expected time frame, or at all. We may not be able to lease or drill a particular prospect because, in some cases, we identify a prospect or drilling location before seeking an option or lease rights in the prospect or location. Similarly, our drilling schedule may vary from our capital budget. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including: • the results of exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of the seismic data; • the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects; • the approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled; • economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for natural gas and oil and the availability of drilling rigs and crews; • our financial resources and results; and • the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects. - 21 - Table of Contents These projects may not be successfully developed and the wells, if drilled, may not encounter reservoirs of commercially productive natural gas or oil. Our proved reserves are estimates. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and crude oil that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The process of estimating quantities of proved reserves is complex and inherently imprecise, and the reserve data included in this document are only estimates. The process relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this technical data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of which are mandated by the SEC, such as natural gas and oil prices. Additional assumptions include drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revising the original estimate. Accordingly, initial reserve estimates often vary from the quantities of natural gas and crude oil that are ultimately recovered, and such variances may be material. Any significant variance could reduce the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month average oil and gas index prices, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average for the first day of the month price for each month and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be significantly less than the current estimate. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements in compliance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in Accounting Standards Codification 932 may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional natural gas and oil reserves that are economically recoverable. In general, the production rate of natural gas and oil properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, eventually resulting in a decrease in natural gas and oil production and lower revenues and cash flow from operations. Our future natural gas and oil production is, therefore, highly dependent on our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. We may not be able to replace reserves through our exploration, development and exploitation activities or by acquiring properties at acceptable costs. Low natural gas and oil prices may further limit the kinds of reserves that we can develop economically. Lower prices also decrease our cash flow and may cause us to decrease capital expenditures. Our reserve report estimates that production from our proved developed producing reserves as of December 31, 2010 will increase at an estimated rate of 30% during 2011 and then decline at estimated rates of 22%, 22% and 15% during 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Future development of proved undeveloped and other reserves currently not classified as proved developed producing will impact these rates of decline. Because of higher initial decline rates from newly developed reserves, we consider this pattern fairly typical. Exploration, development and exploitation activities involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce natural gas and oil in commercial quantities and the inability to fully produce discovered reserves. - 22 - Table of Contents Acquired properties may not be worth what we pay due to uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and other expected benefits, as well as potential liabilities. Successful property acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors beyond our control. These factors include exploration potential, future natural gas and oil prices, operating costs, and potential environmental and other liabilities. These assessments are complex and inherently imprecise. Our review of the properties we acquire may not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not allow us to fully assess the potential deficiencies of the properties. We do not inspect every well, and even when we inspect a well we may not discover structural, subsurface, or environmental problems that may exist or arise. We may not be entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and our contractual indemnification may not be effective. Often, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. If an acquired property is not performing as originally estimated, we may have an impairment which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The integration of the properties we acquire could be difficult, and may divert management’s attention away from our existing operations. The integration of the properties we acquire could be difficult, and may divert management’s attention and financial resources away from our existing operations. These difficulties include: • the challenge of integrating the acquired properties while carrying on the ongoing operations of our business; and • the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations. The process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our existing business. If management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. We face a variety of hazards and risks that could cause substantial financial losses. Our business involves a variety of operating risks, including: • well site blowouts, cratering and explosions; • equipment failures; • uncontrolled flows of natural gas, oil or well fluids; • fires; • formations with abnormal pressures; • pollution and other environmental risks; and • natural disasters. Any of these events could result in injury or loss of human life, loss of hydrocarbons, significant damage to or destruction of property, environmental pollution, regulatory investigations and penalties, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. Our operation of natural gas gathering and pipeline systems also involves various risks, including the risk of explosions and environmental hazards caused by pipeline leaks and ruptures. The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase these - 23 - Table of Contents risks. As of December 31, 2010, we owned or operated approximately 3,150 miles of natural gas gathering and pipeline systems. As part of our normal maintenance program, we have identified certain segments of our pipelines that we believe periodically require repair, replacement or additional maintenance. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and operating restrictions or delays. Bills have recently been introduced in Congress that would subject hydraulic fracturing to federal regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act. If adopted, these bills could result in additional permitting requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations as well as various restrictions on those operations. These permitting requirements and restrictions could result in delays in operations at well sites as well as increased costs to make wells productive. Moreover, the bills introduced in Congress would require the public disclosure of certain information regarding the chemical makeup of hydraulic fracturing fluids, many of which are proprietary to the service companies that perform the hydraulic fracturing operations. Such disclosure could make it easier for third parties to initiate litigation against us in the event of perceived problems with drinking water wells in the vicinity of an oil or gas well or other alleged environmental problems. In addition to these federal legislative proposals, some states and local governments have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, including requirements regarding chemical disclosure, casing and cementing of wells, withdrawal of water for use in high-volume hydraulic fracturing of horizontal wells, baseline testing of nearby water wells, and restrictions on the type of additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, both the State of Pennsylvania and certain local governments in that state have adopted a variety of regulations limiting how and where fracturing can be performed. If these types of conditions are adopted, we could be subject to increased costs and possibly limits on the productivity of certain wells. We may not be insured against all of the operating risks to which we are exposed. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. We do not carry business interruption insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. Non-operated wells represented approximately 14.9% of our total owned gross wells, or approximately 4.6% of our owned net wells, as of December 31, 2010. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of these non-operated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to them. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interest could reduce our production and revenues. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and lead to unexpected future costs. Terrorist activities and the potential for military and other actions could adversely affect our business. The threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action have caused instability in world financial markets and could lead to increased volatility in prices for natural gas and oil, all of which could adversely affect the markets for our operations. Future acts of terrorism could be directed against companies operating in the United States. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risk and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business. - 24 - Table of Contents Our ability to sell our natural gas and oil production could be materially harmed if we fail to obtain adequate services such as transportation and processing. The sale of our natural gas and oil production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability and capacity of transportation and processing facilities. Our failure to obtain these services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. Competition in our industry is intense, and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technological resources than we do, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense. Major and independent natural gas and oil companies actively bid for desirable natural gas and oil properties, as well as for the equipment and labor required to operate and develop these properties. Our competitive position is affected by price, contract terms and quality of service, including pipeline connection times, distribution efficiencies and reliable delivery record. Many of our competitors have financial and technological resources and exploration and development budgets that are substantially greater than ours. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory projects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. We may have hedging arrangements that expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of increases in prices for natural gas and oil. From time to time, when we believe that market conditions are favorable, we use certain derivative financial instruments to manage price risks associated with our production in all of our regions. While there are many different types of derivatives available, in 2010 we employed natural gas and crude oil price swap agreements for portions of our 2010 production and natural gas price swap agreements and crude oil collar agreements for portions of our anticipated 2011 production to attempt to manage price risk more effectively. In addition, we have natural gas basis swaps covering a portion of anticipated 2012 production, which do not qualify for hedge accounting. The collar arrangements are put and call options used to establish floor and ceiling commodity prices for a fixed volume of production during a certain time period. They provide for payments to counterparties if the index price exceeds the ceiling and payments from the counterparties if the index price falls below the floor. The price swaps call for payments to, or receipts from, counterparties based on whether the market price of natural gas or crude oil for the period is greater or less than the fixed price established for that period when the swap is put in place. These hedging arrangements limit the benefit to us of increases in prices. In addition, these arrangements expose us to risks of financial loss in a variety of circumstances, including when: • a counterparty is unable to satisfy its obligations; • production is less than expected; or • there is an adverse change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received for our production. We will continue to evaluate the benefit of employing derivatives in the future. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A for further discussion concerning our use of derivatives. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of key management and technical personnel, and one or more of these individuals could leave our employment. The unexpected loss of the services of one or - 25 - Table of Contents more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. In addition, our drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced geologists, engineers and other professionals. Competition for experienced geologists, engineers and some other professionals is extremely intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations and those relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Many laws and regulations require permits for the operation of various facilities, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations could subject us to fines, injunctions or both. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing and operating natural gas and oil facilities. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are inherent in natural gas and oil operations. It is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from natural gas and oil production, would result in substantial costs and liabilities. Climate change and climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased operating costs and decreased demand for the oil and gas that we produce. There is increasing attention in the United States and worldwide concerning the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse gases. In the United States, climate change action is evolving at state, regional and federal levels. On December 17, 2010, the EPA amended the “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” final rule (“Reporting Rule”) originally issued in September 2009. The Reporting Rule establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent greenhouse gases to inventory and report their greenhouse gases emissions annually on a facility-by-facility basis. In addition, on December 15, 2009, the EPA published a Final Rule finding that current and projected concentrations of six key greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and the welfare of current and future generations. The EPA also found that the combined emissions of these greenhouse gases from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines contribute to pollution that threatens public health and welfare. This Final Rule, also known as the EPA’s Endangerment Finding, does not impose any requirements on industry or other entities directly. However, following issuance of the Endangerment Finding, EPA promulgated final motor vehicle GHG emission standards on April 1, 2010, the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil. Also, according to the EPA, the final motor vehicle GHG standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. Thus, on June 3, 2010, EPA issued a final rule to address permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V programs. This final rule “tailors” the PSD and Title V programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. Most recently, on November 8, 2010, EPA finalized new GHG reporting requirements for upstream petroleum and natural gas systems, which will be added to EPA’s GHG Reporting Rule. Facilities containing petroleum and natural gas systems that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of CO2 equivalent per year will now be required to report annual GHG emissions to EPA, with the first report due on March 31, 2012. However, following issuance of the Endangerment Finding, the EPA promulgated final motor vehicle greenhouse gas emission standards on April 1, 2010, the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil. Also, according to the EPA, the final motor vehicle greenhouse gas standards will trigger - 26 - Table of Contents construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. Thus, on June 3, 2010, the EPA issued a final rule to address permitting of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V programs. This final rule tailors the PSD and Title V programs to apply to certain stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. Most recently, on November 8, 2010, the EPA finalized new greenhouse gas reporting requirements for upstream petroleum and natural gas systems, which will be added to the Reporting Rule. Facilities containing petroleum and natural gas systems that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of C02 equivalent per year will now be required to report annual GHG emissions to the EPA, with the first report due on March 31, 2012. Internationally, in 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which establishes a binding set of emission targets for greenhouse gases, became binding on all those countries that had ratified it. International discussions are currently underway to develop a treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol after its expiration in 2012. While it is not possible at this time to predict how regulation that may be enacted to address greenhouse gases emissions would impact our business, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing oil and gas exploration in the areas of the United States in which we operate could materially and adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or imposing materially increased costs. In addition, existing or new laws, regulations or treaties (including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources) could have a negative impact on our business if such incentives reduce demand for oil and gas. Moreover, some experts believe climate change poses potential physical risks, including an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in precipitation and extreme weather events. To the extent that such unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by global climate change or otherwise, our operations may be adversely affected to a greater degree than we have previously experienced, including increased delays and costs. However, the uncertain nature of changes in extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration, and severity) and the long period of time over which any changes would take place make estimating any future financial risk to our operations caused by these potential physical risks of climate change extremely challenging. The proposed U.S. federal budget for fiscal year 2012 includes certain provisions that, if passed as originally submitted, will have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. On February 14, 2011, the Office Management and Budget released a summary of the proposed U.S. federal budget for fiscal year 2012, and the Treasury Department released a general explanation of tax related proposals in such budget. The proposed budget repeals many tax incentives and deductions that are currently used by U.S. oil and gas companies and imposes new taxes. The provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; increase in the taxation of foreign source income; repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; and increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers. Should some or all of these provisions become law, our taxes will increase, potentially significantly, which would have a negative impact on our net income and cash flows. This could also reduce our drilling activities in the U.S. Since none of these proposals have yet to be voted on or become law, we do not know the ultimate impact these proposed changes may have on our business. Provisions of Delaware law and our bylaws and charter could discourage change in control transactions and prevent stockholders from receiving a premium on their investment. Our bylaws provide for a classified Board of Directors with staggered terms, and our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, Delaware law contains provisions that impose restrictions on business combinations with interested parties. Our bylaws prohibit stockholder action by written consent and limit stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders. Because of these provisions of our charter, bylaws and Delaware law, persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals - 27 - Table of Contents may be more likely to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. As a result, these provisions may make it more difficult for our stockholders to benefit from transactions that are opposed by an incumbent Board of Directors. The personal liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duty of care is limited by the Delaware General Corporation Law and by our charter. The Delaware General Corporation Law allows corporations to limit available relief for the breach of directors’ duty of care to equitable remedies such as injunction or rescission. Our charter limits the liability of our directors to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Specifically, our directors will not be personally liable for monetary damages for any breach of their fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability: • for any breach of their duty of loyalty to the company or our stockholders; • for acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; • under provisions relating to unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; and • for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. This limitation may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors, and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors for breach of their duty of care, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES See Item 1. “Business.” ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is a defendant in various legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business. When deemed necessary, the Company establishes reserves for certain legal proceedings. All known liabilities are accrued based on an estimation process that includes the advice of legal counsel and subjective judgment of management. While the outcome and impact of such legal proceedings on the Company cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that the resolution of these proceedings through settlement or adverse judgment will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Environmental Matters On November 4, 2009, the Company and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PaDEP) entered into a single settlement agreement (Consent Order) covering a number of separate, unrelated environmental issues occurring in 2008 and 2009, including releases of drilling mud and other substances, record keeping violations at various wells and alleged natural gas contamination of 13 water wells in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. The Company paid an aggregate $120,000 civil penalty with respect to all the matters covered by the Consent Order, which were consolidated at the request of the PaDEP. On April 15, 2010, the Company and PaDEP reached agreement on modifications to the Consent Order (First Modified Consent Order). In the First Modified Consent Order, PaDEP and the Company agreed that the - 28 - Table of Contents Company will provide a permanent source of potable water to 14 households, most of which the Company has already been supplying with water. The Company agreed to plug and abandon three vertical wells in close proximity to two of the households and to bring into compliance a fourth well in the nine square mile area of concern in Susquehanna County. The Company agreed to complete these actions prior to any new well drilling permits being issued for drilling in Pennsylvania, and prior to initiating hydraulic fracturing of seven wells already drilled in the area of concern. The Company also agreed to postpone drilling of new wells in the area of concern until all obligations under the consent orders are fulfilled. In addition, the Company agreed to take certain other actions if requested by PaDEP, which could include the plugging and abandonment of up to 10 additional wells. Under the First Modified Consent Order, the Company paid a $240,000 civil penalty and agreed to pay an additional $30,000 per month until all obligations under the First Modified Consent Order are satisfied. On July 19, 2010, the Company and the PaDEP entered a Second Modification to Consent Order (Second Modified Consent Order) under which the Company and the PaDEP agreed that the Company has satisfactorily plugged and abandoned the three vertical wells and brought the fourth well into compliance. As a result, the Company and the PaDEP agreed that the PaDEP will commence the processing and issuance of new well drilling permits outside the area of concern so long as the Company continues to provide temporary potable water and offers to provide gas/water separators to the 14 households. No penalties were assessed under the Second Modified Consent Order. As required by the Second Modified Consent Order, the Company made offers to provide whole-house water treatment systems to the 14 households. As required by the First Modified Consent Order, on August 5, 2010 the Company filed with the PaDEP its report, prepared by its experts, finding that the Company’s well drilling and development activities are not the source of methane gas reported to be in the groundwater and water wells in the area of concern. Despite the Company’s vigorous efforts to comply with the various consent orders, in a September 14, 2010 letter to the Company, the PaDEP rejected the Company’s expert report and determined that the Company’s drilling activities continue to cause the unpermitted discharge of natural gas into the groundwater and continue to affect residential water supplies in the area of concern. The PaDEP directed the Company, in accordance with the First Modified Consent Order, to plug or take other remedial actions at the remaining 10 wells and to contact the PaDEP to discuss connecting the impacted water supplies into a community public water system to permanently eliminate the continuing adverse affect to those water supplies. The Company believed that it was in full compliance with the various consent orders. In a September 28, 2010 reply letter to the PaDEP, the Company disagreed with the PaDEP’s rejection of the Company’s expert report, disagreed that the remaining 10 wells continue to impact groundwater and affect residential water supplies and disagreed that a community public water system is necessary or feasible. It was the Company’s position that offering installation of a whole-house water treatment system to the 14 households constituted compliance with the Company’s obligations under these consent orders. On December 15, 2010, the Company entered a global settlement agreement and new consent order with the PaDEP (Global Settlement Agreement), which supersedes the Consent Order, the First Modified Consent Order and the Second Modified Consent Order. Under the Global Settlement Agreement, among other things, the Company agreed to pay $4.2 million into separate escrow accounts for the benefit of each affected household, pay $500,000 to the PaDEP to reimburse the PaDEP for its costs, remediate two wells in the affected area, provide pressure, water quality and well headspace data to the PaDEP and offer water treatment to the affected households. The Global Settlement Agreement settles all outstanding issues and claims that are known and that could have been brought against the Company by the PaDEP relating to the wells in the affected area and the Consent Order, the First Modified Consent Order and the Second Modified Consent Order. It also allows the Company to begin hydraulic fracturing in the affected areas after providing the PaDEP with well pressure data and to commence drilling new wells in the affected area in the second quarter of 2011. Under the Global Settlement Agreement, the Company has no obligation to connect the impacted water supplies to a community public water system. - 29 - Table of Contents On January 11, 2011, certain of the affected households appealed the Global Settlement Agreement to the Pennsylvania Environmental Hearing Board. A hearing on the merits of this appeal is not expected to occur until 2012. As of December 31, 2010, the Company has paid $1.3 million in fines and penalties to the PaDEP, paid $0.6 million to two of the affected households and accrued a $3.6 million settlement liability related to this matter which is included in Other Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following table shows certain information as of February 18, 2011 about our executive officers, as such term is defined in Rule 3b-7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and certain of our other officers. Name Age Position OfficerSince Dan O. Dinges 57 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 2001 Scott C. Schroeder 48 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 1997 G. Kevin Cunningham 57 Vice President, General Counsel 2010 Robert G. Drake 63 Vice President, Information Services and Operational Accounting 1998 Abraham D. Garza 64 Vice President, Human Resources 1998 Jeffrey W. Hutton 55 Vice President, Marketing 1995 Steven W. Lindeman 50 Vice President, Engineering and Technology 2011 Lisa A. Machesney 55 Vice President, Managing Counsel and Corporate Secretary 1995 James M. Reid 59 Vice President, Regional Manager South Region 2009 Todd M. Roemer 40 Controller 2010 Phillip L. Stalnaker 51 Vice President, Regional Manager North Region 2009 All officers are elected annually by our Board of Directors. All of the executive officers have been employed by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation for at least the last five years, except for Mr. G. Kevin Cunningham and Mr. Todd M. Roemer. Mr. Cunningham joined the Company in November 2009 as Associate General Counsel and was appointed as General Counsel in September 2010 and promoted to Vice President in 2011. Before joining the Company, Kevin was Regional Counsel-Southern Division at Chesapeake Energy from 2006 until November 2009. He is a graduate of the University of Texas School of Law and has worked at Fortune 500 E&P companies in both legal and business positions since 1982. Mr. Lindeman was promoted to Vice President, Engineering and Technology, in February 2011. He began his career as a Drilling Engineer in Meadville, Pennsylvania with Cabot in 1982, has served in various management positions in many company offices over the years, including Pampa and Midland, Texas, Indiana, Meadville, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, before moving to Houston in 1992, where he most recently served as Director of Engineering. Mr. Lindeman is a graduate of the University of Pittsburgh; he holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering specializing in Petroleum Engineering. He has been a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers since 1980. Mr. Roemer joined the Company in February 2010 after a 14 year career in PricewaterhouseCoopers’ energy practice. He is a graduate of the University of Houston—Clear Lake with a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting. Mr. Roemer is a Certified Public Accountant. - 30 - Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed and principally traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “COG.” The following table presents the high and low closing sales prices per share of our common stock during certain periods, as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system. Cash dividends paid per share of the common stock are also shown. A regular dividend has been declared each quarter since we became a public company in 1990. High Low Dividends 2010 First Quarter $ 46.23 $ 36.40 $ 0.03 Second Quarter $ 40.51 $ 30.33 $ 0.03 Third Quarter $ 33.61 $ 26.99 $ 0.03 Fourth Quarter $ 37.85 $ 28.27 $ 0.03 2009 First Quarter $ 30.76 $ 18.14 $ 0.03 Second Quarter $ 36.90 $ 24.38 $ 0.03 Third Quarter $ 39.23 $ 27.98 $ 0.03 Fourth Quarter $ 45.73 $ 34.14 $ 0.03 As of February 1, 2011, there were 496 registered holders of the common stock. ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program under which we may purchase shares of common stock in the open market or in negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date associated with the authorization. During 2010, we did not repurchase any shares of common stock. All purchases executed to date have been through open market transactions. The maximum number of remaining shares that may be purchased under the plan as of December 31, 2010 was 4,795,300. - 31 - Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph compares our common stock performance (“COG”) with the performance of the Standard & Poors’ 500 Stock Index and the Dow Jones US Exploration & Production Index for the period December 2005 through December 2010. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and in each index was $100 on December 31, 2005 and that all dividends were reinvested. CALCULATED VALUES 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 S&P 500 100.0 115.8 122.2 77.0 97.3 112.0 COG 100.0 134.9 180.1 116.4 195.8 170.6 Dow Jones US Exploration & Production 100.0 105.4 151.4 90.6 127.4 148.7 * Year-end closing values. The performance graph above is furnished and not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933 unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The performance graph is not soliciting material subject to Regulation 14A. - 32 - Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table summarizes our selected consolidated financial data for the periods indicated. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes in Item 8. Year Ended December 31, (In thousands, except per share amounts) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statement of Operations Data Operating Revenues $ 884,035 $ 879,276 $ 945,791 $ 732,170 $ 761,988 Impairment of Oil & Gas Properties and Other Assets(1) 40,903 17,622 35,700 4,614 3,886 Gain / (Loss) on Sale of Assets(2) 106,294 (3,303 ) 1,143 13,448 232,017 Gain on Settlement of Dispute(3) — — 51,906 — — Income from Operations 266,439 282,269 372,012 274,693 528,946 Net Income 103,386 148,343 211,290 167,423 321,175 Basic Earnings per Share(4) $ 0.99 $ 1.43 $ 2.10 $ 1.73 $ 3.32 Diluted Earnings per Share(4) $ 0.98 $ 1.42 $ 2.08 $ 1.71 $ 3.26 Dividends per Common Share(4) $ 0.12 $ 0.12 $ 0.12 $ 0.11 $ 0.08 Balance Sheet Data Properties and Equipment, Net. $ 3,762,760 $ 3,358,199 $ 3,135,828 $ 1,908,117 $ 1,480,201 Total Assets 4,005,031 3,683,401 3,701,664 2,208,594 1,834,491 Current Portion of Long-Term Debt — — 35,857 20,000 20,000 Long-Term Debt 975,000 805,000 831,143 330,000 220,000 Stockholders’ Equity 1,872,700 1,812,514 1,790,562 1,070,257 945,198 (1) For discussion of impairment of oil and gas properties and other assets, refer to Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Gain on Sale of Assets in 2010 includes $40.7 million from the sale of the Company’s investment in Tourmaline, $49.3 million from the sale of our Pennsylvania gathering infrastructure, $10.8 million from the sale of certain oil and gas properties in the Texas Panhandle, a $10.3 million gain on the sale of our Woodford shale properties, and an impairment loss of $5.8 million on certain oil and gas properties in Colorado. Gain on Sale of Assets for 2007 and 2006 reflects $12.3 million and $231.2 million, respectively, related to disposition of our offshore portfolio and certain south Louisiana properties, which was substantially completed in the third quarter of 2006. (3) Gain on Settlement of Dispute is associated with the Company’s settlement of a dispute in the fourth quarter of 2008. The dispute settlement includes the value of cash and properties received. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) All Earnings per Share and Dividends per Common Share figures have been retroactively adjusted for the 2-for-1 split of our common stock effective March 31, 2007. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our results of operations and our present financial condition. Our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K contain additional information that should be referred to when reviewing this material. In 2009, we reorganized our operations by combining the Rocky Mountain and Appalachian areas to form the North region and by combining the Anadarko Basin with our Texas and Louisiana areas to form the South region. Additionally, we exited Canada through the sale of our properties in April 2009. Prior to the third quarter of 2009, we presented our geographic areas as East, Gulf Coast, West and Canada. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to reflect changes in presenting the geographic areas in which we conduct our operations. - 33 - Table of Contents We operate in one segment, natural gas and oil development, exploitation and exploration, exclusively within the United States. Statements in this discussion may be forward-looking. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below, which could cause actual results to differ from those expressed. Please read “Forward-Looking Information” for further details. OVERVIEW Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation is a leading independent oil and gas company engaged in the development, exploitation, exploration, production and marketing of natural gas, crude oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas liquids from its properties in the Continental United States. We also transport, store, gather and produce natural gas for resale. Our exploitation and exploration activities are concentrated in areas with known hydrocarbon resources, which are conducive to multi-well, repeatable drilling programs. Our program is designed to be disciplined and balanced, with a focus on achieving strong financial returns. We evaluate three types of investment alternatives that compete for available capital: drilling opportunities, financial opportunities such as debt repayment or repurchase of common stock and acquisition opportunities. Depending on circumstances, we allocate capital among the alternatives based on a rate-of-return approach. Our goal is to invest capital in the highest return opportunities available at any given time. At any one time, one or more of these may not be economically feasible. Our financial results depend upon many factors, particularly the price of natural gas and crude oil and our ability to market our production on economically attractive terms. Price volatility in the commodity markets has remained prevalent in the last few years. Our realized natural gas and crude oil price was $5.54 per Mcf and $97.91 per Bbl, respectively, in 2010 and were significantly increased by our positions from our derivative instruments, which contributed approximately 22% of our realized revenues in 2010. In an effort to manage commodity price risk, we opportunistically enter into crude oil and natural gas price swaps and collars. These financial instruments are a component of our risk management strategy. Commodity prices are impacted by many factors that are outside of our control. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile and we expect them to remain volatile. Commodity prices are affected by changes in market supply and demand, which are impacted by overall economic activity, weather, pipeline capacity constraints, inventory storage levels, basis differentials and other factors. As a result, we cannot accurately predict future natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices and, therefore, we cannot determine with any degree of certainty what effect increases or decreases will have on our capital program, production volumes and future revenues. In addition to production volumes and commodity prices, finding and developing sufficient amounts of crude oil and natural gas reserves at economical costs are critical to our long-term success. See “Risk Factors—Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business” and “Risk Factors—Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional natural gas and oil reserves that are economically recoverable” in Item 1A. The table below illustrates how natural gas prices have fluctuated by month over 2009 and 2010. “Index” represents the first of the month Henry Hub index price per Mmbtu. The “2009” and “2010” price is the natural gas price per Mcf realized by us and includes the realized impact of our natural gas derivative instruments, as applicable: Natural Gas Prices by Month - 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Index $ 5.82 $ 5.28 $ 4.81 $ 3.84 $ 4.27 $ 4.16 $ 4.73 $ 4.78 $ 3.64 $ 3.84 $ 3.29 $ 4.27 2010 $ 6.95 $ 6.47 $ 6.28 $ 5.35 $ 5.49 $ 5.60 $ 5.66 $ 5.64 $ 4.84 $ 4.99 $ 4.66 $ 5.39 Natural Gas Prices by Month - 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Index $ 6.16 $ 4.49 $ 4.07 $ 3.65 $ 3.33 $ 3.54 $ 3.96 $ 3.37 $ 2.84 $ 3.72 $ 4.28 $ 4.49 2009 $ 7.72 $ 7.32 $ 7.46 $ 7.03 $ 7.28 $ 7.45 $ 7.50 $ 7.45 $ 7.25 $ 7.42 $ 8.03 $ 7.75 - 34 - Table of Contents The table below illustrates how crude oil prices have fluctuated by month over 2009 and 2010. “Index” represents the NYMEX monthly average crude oil price and our realized per barrel (Bbl) crude oil prices by month for 2009 and 2010. The “2009” and “2010” price is the crude oil price per Bbl realized by us and includes the realized impact of our crude oil derivative instruments: Crude Oil Prices by Month - 2010 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Index $ 72.47 $ 77.62 $ 80.16 $ 81.25 $ 83.45 $ 68.01 $ 77.21 $ 77.44 $ 73.46 $ 73.52 $ 81.77 $ 81.51 2010 $ 101.75 $ 96.32 $ 95.25 $ 97.07 $ 94.48 $ 98.82 $ 99.00 $ 101.47 $ 94.95 $ 101.01 $ 97.51 $ 100.24 Crude Oil Prices by Month - 2009 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Index $ 41.92 $ 39.26 $ 48.06 $ 49.95 $ 59.21 $ 69.70 $ 64.29 $ 71.14 $ 69.47 $ 75.82 $ 78.15 $ 74.60 2009 $ 75.41 $ 73.98 $ 76.29 $ 78.86 $ 85.94 $ 86.26 $ 82.22 $ 92.16 $ 87.54 $ 92.13 $ 95.35 $ 95.41 Natural gas revenues decreased from 2009 to 2010 as a result of decreased commodity market prices partially offset by increased natural gas production. Crude oil revenues increased slightly from 2009 to 2010 primarily due to increased realized prices, partially offset by decreased crude oil production. Prices, including the realized impact of derivative instruments, decreased by 26% for natural gas and increased by 14% for oil. We drilled 113 gross wells with a success rate of 98% in 2010 compared to 143 gross wells with a success rate of 95% in 2009. Total capital and exploration expenditures increased by $251.1 million to $891.5 million in 2010 compared to $640.4 million in 2009. This increase was due to a $230.6 million increase in the North region substantially driven by an expanded Marcellus horizontal drilling program in northeast Pennsylvania to hold acreage and $42.8 million in the South region due to due to an increase in lease acquisitions to establish a greater position in the oil window of the Eagle Ford shale. We believe our cash on hand and operating cash flow in 2011 will be sufficient to fund our budgeted capital and exploration spending of approximately $600 million. Any additional needs are expected to be funded by borrowings from our credit facility. Our 2011 strategy will remain consistent with 2010. We will remain focused on our strategies of pursuing lower risk drilling opportunities that provide more predictable results on our accumulated acreage position. Additionally, we intend to maintain spending discipline and manage our balance sheet in an effort to ensure sufficient liquidity, including cash resources and available credit. In the current year we have allocated our planned program for capital and exploration expenditures primarily to the Marcellus shale in northeast Pennsylvania, and the Eagle Ford shale in south Texas. We believe these strategies are appropriate for our portfolio of projects and the current industry environment and will continue to add shareholder value over the long-term. The preceding paragraphs, discussing our strategic pursuits and goals, contain forward-looking information. Please read “Forward-Looking Information” for further details. FINANCIAL CONDITION Capital Resources and Liquidity Our primary sources of cash in 2010 were from funds generated from the sale of natural gas and crude oil production (including hedge realizations), borrowings under our revolving credit facility, issuance of private placement debt and the sales of properties and other assets during the year. These cash flows were primarily used to fund our development and exploratory expenditures, in addition to repayments for debt and related interest, payments for debt issuance costs, contributions to our pension plan and dividends. See below for additional discussion and analysis of cash flow. - 35 - Table of Contents We generate cash from the sale of natural gas and crude oil. Operating cash flow fluctuations are substantially driven by commodity prices and changes in our production volumes. Prices for crude oil and natural gas have historically been volatile, including seasonal influences characterized by peak demand and higher prices in the winter heating season; however, the impact of other risks and uncertainties have also influenced prices throughout the recent years. In addition, fluctuations in cash flow may result in an increase or decrease in our capital and exploration expenditures. See “Results of Operations” for a review of the impact of prices and volumes on revenues. Our working capital is also substantially influenced by variables discussed above. From time to time, our working capital will reflect a surplus, while at other times it will reflect a deficit. This fluctuation is not unusual. We believe we have adequate availability under our credit facility and liquidity available to meet our working capital requirements. Year Ended December 31, (In thousands) 2010 2009 2008 Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities $ 484,911 $ 614,052 $ 634,447 Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities (613,741 ) (531,027 ) (1,452,289 ) Cash Flows Provided by / (Used in) Financing Activities 144,621 (70,968 ) 827,445 Net Increase / (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 15,791 $ 12,057 $ 9,603 Operating Activities. Key components impacting net operating cash flows are commodity prices, production volumes and operating costs. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2010 decreased by $129.1 million over 2009. This decrease was mainly due to a decrease in oil and gas revenues and higher operating and interest expense. Average realized natural gas prices decreased by 26% in 2010 compared to 2009 and average realized crude oil prices increased by 14% over the same period. Equivalent production volumes increased by 27% in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher natural gas production. We are unable to predict future commodity prices and, as a result, cannot provide any assurance about future levels of net cash provided by operating activities. Realized prices may continue to decline during 2011. For 2010, we had natural gas price swaps covering 35.9 Bcf, or 29%, of our 2010 natural gas production at an average price of $9.30 per Mcf. We also had crude oil price swaps covering 730 Mmbl, or 90%, of our 2010 crude oil production at an average price of $104.25 per Bbl. As of December 31, 2010, we have natural gas price swaps covering 12.9 Bcf of our 2011 gas production at an average price of $6.24 per Mcf and crude oil collars covering 365 MBbls of our 2011 crude oil production, with a floor of $80.00 per Bbl and a ceiling of $93.25 per Bbl. Accordingly, based on our current hedge position, we will be more subject to the effects of natural gas and crude oil price volatility in 2011 than in 2010. In addition, given the current market for derivatives, if we were to hedge all our 2011 production, we would expect our realized prices to be lower than our 2010 realized prices. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2009 decreased by $20.4 million over 2008. This decrease was mainly due to a decrease in oil and gas revenues, partially offset by lower operating, interest and tax expense. Average realized natural gas prices decreased by 11% in 2009 compared to 2008 and average realized crude oil prices decreased by 4% over the same period. Equivalent production volumes increased by 8% in 2009 compared to 2008 as a result of higher natural gas and crude oil production. See “Results of Operations” for a discussion on commodity prices and a review of the impact of prices and volumes on sales revenue. Investing Activities. The primary uses of cash in investing activities were capital spending and exploration expenses. We established the budget for these amounts based on our current estimate of future commodity prices and cash flows. Due to the volatility of commodity prices and new opportunities which may arise, our capital - 36 - Table of Contents expenditures may be periodically adjusted during any given year. Cash flows used in investing activities increased by $82.7 million from 2009 to 2010 and decreased by $921.3 million from 2008 to 2009. The increase from 2009 to 2010 was due to an increase of $246.4 million in acquisitions and capital and exploration expenditures partially offset by an increase of $163.3 million of proceeds from the sale of assets. The decrease from 2008 to 2009 was due to a decrease of $843.2 million in acquisitions and capital expenditures and an increase of $78.1 million of proceeds from the sale of assets. In August 2008, we completed the acquisition of producing properties, leasehold acreage and a natural gas gathering infrastructure in east Texas for total net cash consideration of approximately $604.0 million. Financing Activities. Cash flows provided by financing activities increased by $215.6 million from 2009 to 2010. This was primarily due to an increase in borrowings of $420.0 million, partially offset by an increase in repayments of debt of $188.0 million, an increase in cash paid for capitalized debt issuance costs by a total of $3.4 million and a decrease of $13.7 million in the tax benefit associated with stock-based compensation. Cash flows provided by financing activities decreased by $898.4 million from 2008 to 2009. This was primarily due to a decrease in borrowings from debt of $787 million, partially offset by a decrease in repayments of debt of $208 million, and a decrease in net proceeds from the sale of common stock of $316.1 million primarily due to our June 2008 issuance of common stock in a public offering. Common stock proceeds and debt borrowings in 2008 were largely used to finance the acquisition of east Texas properties and undeveloped acreage. Cash paid for capitalized debt issuance costs and dividends increased by a total of $6.4 million, partially offset by an increase of $3.1 million in the tax benefit associated with stock-based compensation. At December 31, 2010, we had $213.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our unsecured credit facility at a weighted-average interest rate of 3.1%. In December 2010, we completed a private placement of $175.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured fixed-rate notes with a weighted-average interest rate of 5.58%, consisting of amounts due in January 2021, 2023 and 2026. In September 2010, we amended and restated our revolving credit facility to increase the available credit line to $900 million with an accordion feature allowing us to increase the available credit line to $1.0 billion, if any one or more of the existing banks or new banks agree to provide such increased commitment amount, and to extend the term to September 2015. The available credit line is subject to adjustment on the basis of the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves (as determined by the banks based on our reserve reports and engineering reports) and certain other assets and the outstanding principal balance of our senior notes. The amended facility provides for a $1.5 billion borrowing base. We strive to manage our debt at a level below the available credit line in order to maintain excess borrowing capacity. Our revolving credit facility includes a covenant limiting our total debt. As of December 31, 2010, our available credit under our credit facility is $525.0 million. In June 2010, we amended the agreements governing our credit facility and senior notes to amend the required asset coverage ratio (the present value of our proved reserves plus working capital to debt) contained in the agreements. The amendment also changed the ratio for maximum calculated indebtedness to borrowing base (as defined in the credit facility agreement). In July 2008, we completed a private placement of $425 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured fixed-rate notes with a weighted-average interest rate of 6.51%, consisting of amounts due in July 2018, 2020 and 2023. In December 2008, we completed a private placement of $67 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured 9.78% fixed-rate notes due in December 2018. - 37 - Table of Contents In June 2008, we entered into an underwriting agreement pursuant to which we sold an aggregate of 5,002,500 shares of common stock at a price to us of $62.66 per share. We received $313.5 million in net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions. These net proceeds were used temporarily to reduce outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility prior to funding a portion of the purchase price of our east Texas acquisition, which closed in the third quarter of 2008. Immediately prior to (and in connection with) this issuance, we retired 5,002,500 shares of treasury stock, which had a weighted-average purchase price of $16.46. Management believes that, with internally generated cash, existing cash and availability under our revolving credit facility, we have the capacity to finance our spending plans and maintain our strong financial position. At the same time, we will closely monitor the capital markets. Capitalization Information about our capitalization is as follows: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Debt(1) $ 975,000 $ 805,000 Stockholders’ Equity $ 1,872,700 $ 1,812,514 Total Capitalization $ 2,847,700 $ 2,617,514 Debt to Capitalization 34 % 31 % Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 55,949 $ 40,158 (1) Includes $213.0 million and $143.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we paid dividends of $12.5 million ($0.12 per share) on our common stock. A regular dividend has been declared for each quarter since we became a public company in 1990. Capital and Exploration Expenditures On an annual basis, we generally fund most of our capital and exploration activities, excluding any significant oil and gas property acquisitions, with cash generated from operations and, when necessary, borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We budget these capital expenditures based on our projected cash flows for the year. The following table presents major components of our capital and exploration expenditures for the three years ended December 31, 2010. (In thousands) 2010 2009 2008 Capital Expenditures Drilling and Facilities(1) $ 654,153 $ 401,143 $ 624,344 Leasehold Acquisitions 130,675 145,681 152,666 Acquisitions 801 394 624,975 Pipeline and Gathering 54,811 32,861 36,900 Other 8,368 9,506 10,855 848,808 589,585 1,449,740 Exploration Expense 42,725 50,784 31,200 Total $ 891,533 $ 640,369 $ 1,480,940 (1) Includes Canadian currency translation effects of $4.6 million and $(27.7) million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. There was no impact from Canadian currency translation in 2010. - 38 - Table of Contents We plan to drill approximately 110 gross wells (83.1 net) in 2011 compared with 113 gross wells (87.1 net) drilled in 2010. This 2011 drilling program includes approximately $600 million in total capital and exploration expenditures, down from $891.5 million in 2010. This decline is primarily due to the lower well count together with lower projected lease acquisition expenditures as the result of our reduced program spending due to lower commodity prices and reduced infrastructure investments. We will continue to assess the natural gas and crude oil price environment and our liquidity position and may increase or decrease the capital and exploration expenditures accordingly. There are many factors that impact our depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) rate. These include reserve additions and revisions, development costs, impairments and changes in anticipated production in future periods. In 2011, management expects a small decrease in our DD&A rate primarily due to increased production and reserve additions in the Marcellus shale. Such changes in our DD&A rate and related expense do not have an impact on our cash flows. Contractual Obligations Our material contractual obligations include long-term debt, interest on long-term debt, firm gas transportation agreements, drilling rig commitments and operating leases. We have no off-balance sheet debt or other similar unrecorded obligations. A summary of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010 are set forth in the following table: Payments Due by Year (In thousands) Total 2011 2012 to2013 2014 to2015 2016 &Beyond Long-Term Debt(1) $ 975,000 $ — $ 75,000 $ — $ 900,000 Interest on Long-Term Debt(2) 448,894 59,140 112,780 99,098 177,876 Firm Gas Transportation Agreements(3) 485,619 32,504 64,040 56,712 332,363 Operating Leases(3) 22,158 5,414 9,902 6,842 — Total Contractual Cash Obligations $ 1,931,671 $ 97,058 $ 261,722 $ 162,652 $ 1,410,239 (1) At December 31, 2010, we had $213.0 million of debt outstanding under our revolving credit facility. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details of long-term debt. (2) Interest payments have been calculated utilizing the fixed rates of our $762.0 million long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2010. Interest payments on our revolving credit facility were calculated by assuming that the December 31, 2010 outstanding balance of $213.0 million will be outstanding through the September 2015 maturity date. A constant interest rate of 3.8% was assumed, which was the 2010 weighted-average interest rate. Actual results will differ from these estimates and assumptions. (3) For further information on our obligations under firm gas transportation agreements and operating leases, see Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Amounts related to our asset retirement obligations are not included in the above table given the uncertainty regarding the actual timing of such expenditures. The total amount of asset retirement obligations at December 31, 2010 was $72.3 million, up from $29.7 million at December 31, 2009, primarily due to $40.4 million in revisions of previous estimates due to increased plugging and abandonment costs and $1.9 million in accretion expense during 2010. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Potential Impact of Our Critical Accounting Policies Readers of this document and users of the information contained in it should be aware of how certain events may impact our financial results based on the accounting policies in place. Our most significant policies are discussed below. - 39 - Table of Contents Successful Efforts Method of Accounting We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. Acquisition costs for proved and unproved properties are capitalized when incurred. Exploration costs, including geological and geophysical costs, the costs of carrying and retaining unproved properties and exploratory dry hole costs are expensed. Development costs, including costs to drill and equip development wells and successful exploratory drilling costs to locate proved reserves are capitalized. Oil and Gas Reserves The process of estimating quantities of proved reserves is inherently imprecise, and the reserve data included in this document are only estimates. The process relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this technical data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of which are mandated by the SEC, such as oil and gas prices. Additional assumptions include drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Any significant variance in the interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our reserves. Our reserves have been prepared by our petroleum engineering staff and audited by Miller & Lents, Ltd., independent petroleum engineers, who in their opinion determined the estimates presented to be reasonable in the aggregate. For more information regarding reserve estimation, including historical reserve revisions, refer to the “Supplemental Oil and Gas Information.” Our rate of recording DD&A expense is dependent upon our estimate of proved and proved developed reserves, which are utilized in our unit-of-production method calculation. If the estimates of proved reserves were to be reduced, the rate at which we record DD&A expense would increase, reducing net income. Such a reduction in reserves may result from lower market prices, which may make it uneconomic to drill for and produce higher cost fields. A five percent positive or negative revision to proved reserves throughout the Company would decrease or increase the DD&A rate by approximately ($0.10) to $0.12 per Mcfe. Revisions in significant fields may individually affect our DD&A rate. It is estimated that a positive or negative reserve revision of 10% in one of our most productive fields would have a ($0.06) to $0.07 per Mcfe impact on our total DD&A rate. These estimated impacts are based on current data, and actual events could require different adjustments to our DD&A rate. In addition, a decline in proved reserve estimates may impact the outcome of our impairment test under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 360, “Property, Plant, and Equipment.” Due to the inherent imprecision of the reserve estimation process, risks associated with the operations of proved producing properties and market sensitive commodity prices utilized in our impairment analysis, management cannot determine if an impairment is reasonably likely to occur in the future. Carrying Value of Oil and Gas Properties We evaluate the impairment of our oil and gas properties on a field-by-field basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable. We compare expected undiscounted future cash flows to the net book value of the asset. If the future undiscounted expected cash flows, based on our estimate of future crude oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and anticipated production from proved reserves are lower than the net book value of the asset, the capitalized cost is reduced to fair value. Commodity pricing is estimated by using a combination of assumptions management uses in its budgeting and forecasting process as well as historical and current prices adjusted for geographical location and quality differentials, as well as other factors that management believes will impact realizable prices. In the event that commodity prices remain low or continue to decline, there could be a significant revision in the future. Fair value is calculated by discounting the future cash flows. The discount factor used is based on rates utilized by market participants that are commensurate with the risks inherent in the development and production of the underlying natural gas and oil. - 40 - Table of Contents Costs attributable to our unproved properties are not subject to the impairment analysis described above; however, a portion of the costs associated with such properties is subject to amortization based on past experience and average property lives. Average property lives are determined on a geographical basis and based on the estimated life of unproved property leasehold rights. Historically, the average property life in each of the regions has not significantly changed. The commodity price environment may impact the capital available for exploration projects as well as development drilling. We have considered these impacts when determining the amortization rate of our undeveloped acreage, especially in exploratory areas. If the average unproved property life decreases or increases by one year, the amortization would increase by approximately $17.3 million or decrease by approximately $12.3 million, respectively per year. In the past, based on the customary terms of the leases, the average leasehold life in the South region has been shorter than the average life in the North region. Average property lives in the North and South regions have been five and three years, respectively. As these properties are developed and reserves are proven, the remaining capitalized costs are subject to depreciation and depletion. If the development of these properties is deemed unsuccessful, the capitalized costs related to the unsuccessful activity is expensed in the year the determination is made. The rate at which the unproved properties are written off depends on the timing and success of our future exploration and development program. Asset Retirement Obligation The majority of our asset retirement obligation relates to the plugging and abandonment of oil and gas wells and to a lesser extent meter stations, pipelines, processing plants and compressors. The Company records the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred, with the associated asset retirement cost capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. The recognition of an asset retirement obligation requires management to make assumptions that include estimated plugging and abandonment costs, timing of settlements, inflation rates and discount rate. In periods subsequent to initial measurement, the asset retirement cost is allocated to expense using a systematic and rational method over the assets useful life, while increases in the discounted ARO liability resulting from the passage of time (accretion expense) is reflected as depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We follow the accounting prescribed in ASC 815. Under ASC 815, the fair value of each derivative instrument is recorded as either an asset or liability on the balance sheet. At the end of each quarterly period, these instruments are marked-to-market. The gain or loss on the change in fair value is recorded as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, a component of equity, to the extent that the derivative instrument is designated as a hedge and is effective. The ineffective portion, if any, of the change in the fair value of derivatives designated as hedges, and the change in fair value of derivatives not qualifying as hedges, is recorded currently in earnings as a component of Natural Gas and Crude Oil and Condensate Revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The fair value of our derivative instruments are measured based on quotes from the Company’s counterparties. Such quotes have been derived using valuation models that consider various inputs including current market and contractual prices for the underlying instruments, quoted forward prices for natural gas and crude oil, volatility factors and interest rates, such as a LIBOR curve for a similar length of time as the derivative contract term as applicable. These estimates are verified using relevant NYMEX futures contracts or are compared to multiple quotes obtained from counterparties for reasonableness. The Company measured the nonperformance risk of its counterparties by reviewing credit default swap spreads for the various financial institutions in which it has derivative transactions. In times where we have net derivative contract liabilities, our nonperformance risk is evaluated using a market credit spread provided by our bank. - 41 - Table of Contents Employee Benefit Plans Our costs of long-term employee benefits, particularly pension and postretirement benefits, are incurred over long periods of time, and involve many uncertainties over those periods. The net periodic benefit cost attributable to current periods is based on several assumptions about such future uncertainties, and is sensitive to changes in those assumptions. It is management’s responsibility, often with the assistance of independent experts, to select assumptions that in its judgment represent best estimates of those uncertainties. It also is management’s responsibility to review those assumptions periodically to reflect changes in economic or other factors that affect those assumptions. Significant assumptions used to determine our projected pension obligation and related costs include discount rates, expected return on plan assets, and rate of compensation increases, while the assumptions used to determine our postretirement benefit obligation and related costs include discount rates and health care cost trends. See Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a full discussion of our employee benefit plans. Stock-Based Compensation We account for stock-based compensation under a fair value based method of accounting prescribed under ASC 718. Under the fair value method, compensation cost is measured at the grant date and remeasured each reporting period for liability-classified awards based on the fair value of an award and is recognized over the service period, which is usually the vesting period. To calculate the fair value, either a binomial or Black-Scholes valuation model may be used. The use of these models requires significant judgment with respect to expected life, volatility and other factors. Stock-based compensation cost for all types of awards is included in General and Administrative Expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a full discussion of our stock-based compensation. OTHER ISSUES AND CONTINGENCIES Regulations. Our operations are subject to various types of regulation by federal, state and local authorities. See “Regulation of Oil and Natural Gas Exploration and Production,” “Natural Gas Marketing, Gathering and Transportation,” “Federal Regulation of Petroleum” and “Environmental Regulations” in the “Other Business Matters” section of Item 1 for a discussion of these regulations. Restrictive Covenants. Our ability to incur debt and to make certain types of investments is subject to certain restrictive covenants in our various debt instruments. Among other requirements, our revolving credit agreement and our senior notes specify a minimum annual coverage ratio of operating cash flow to interest expense for the trailing four quarters of 2.8 to 1.0. In addition, we are required to maintain an asset coverage ratio of the present value of proved reserves plus working capital to debt of 1.75 to 1.0 and a current ratio of 1.0 to 1.0. Our senior notes require us to maintain a ratio of cash and proved reserves to indebtedness and other liabilities of 1.75 to 1.0. At December 31, 2010, we were in compliance in all material respects with all restrictive covenants on both the revolving credit agreement and notes. In the unforeseen event that we fail to comply with these covenants, we may apply for a temporary waiver with the lender, which, if granted, would allow us a period of time to remedy the situation. Operating Risks and Insurance Coverage. Our business involves a variety of operating risks. See “Risk Factors—We face a variety of hazards and risks that could cause substantial financial losses” in Item 1A. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The costs of these insurance policies are somewhat dependent on our historical claims experience and also the areas in which we choose to operate. Commodity Pricing and Risk Management Activities. Our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital depend substantially on prevailing prices for natural gas and oil. Declines in oil and gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, - 42 - Table of Contents ability to obtain financing and operating results. Lower oil and gas prices also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Depressed prices in the future would have a negative impact on our future financial results. In particular, substantially lower prices would significantly reduce revenue and could potentially trigger an impairment under ASC 360, “Property, Plant, and Equipment.” Because our reserves are predominantly natural gas, changes in natural gas prices may have a more significant impact on our financial results. The majority of our production is sold at market responsive prices. Generally, if the related commodity index falls, the price that we receive for our production will also decline. Therefore, the amount of revenue that we realize is partially determined by factors beyond our control. However, management may mitigate this price risk on all or a portion of our anticipated production with the use of derivative financial instruments. Most recently, we have used financial instruments such as price collars and swap arrangements to reduce the impact of declining prices on our revenue. Under both arrangements, there is also a risk that the movement of index prices may result in our inability to realize the full benefit of an improvement in market conditions. Settlement of Dispute. In December 2008, we settled a dispute with a third party and as a result recorded a gain of $51.9 million. The dispute involved the propriety of possession of our intellectual property by a third party. The settlement was comprised of $20.2 million in cash paid by the third party to us and $31.7 million related to the fair value of unproved property rights transferred by the third party to us. The fair market value of the unproved property rights was determined based on observable market costs and conditions over a recent time period. Values were pro-rated by property based on the primary term remaining on the properties. Recently Adopted Accounting Standards In February 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-09, “Subsequent Events,” which amends ASC 855 to eliminate the requirement to disclose the date through which management has evaluated subsequent events in the financial statements. ASU No. 2010-09 was effective upon issuance and its adoption had no impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Effective January 1, 2010, the Company partially adopted the provisions of FASB ASU No. 2010-06, “Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements,” which amends ASC 820-10-50 to require new disclosures concerning (1) transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value measurement hierarchy, and (2) activity in Level 3 measurements. In addition, ASU No. 2010-06 clarifies certain existing disclosure requirements regarding the level of disaggregation and inputs and valuation techniques and makes conforming amendments to the guidance on employers’ disclosures about postretirement benefit plans assets. The requirements to disclose separately purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the Level 3 reconciliation are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010 (and for interim periods within such years). Accordingly, the Company will apply the disclosure requirements relative to the Level 3 reconciliation in the first quarter of 2011. There was no impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows as a result of the partial adoption of ASU No. 2010-06. For further information, please refer to Note 14. Forward-Looking Information The statements regarding future financial and operating performance and results, market prices, future hedging activities, and other statements that are not historical facts contained in this report are forward-looking statements. The words “expect,” “project,” “estimate,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “budget,” “plan,” “forecast,” “predict,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “will” and similar expressions are also intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, market prices (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results for future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs and other factors detailed herein and in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A for additional information about these risks and - 43 - Table of Contents uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those indicated. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2010 and 2009 Compared We reported net income for 2010 of $103.4 million, or $0.99 per share. During 2009, we reported net income of $148.3 million, or $1.43 per share. Net income decreased in 2010 by $45.0 million, primarily due to increased operating, income tax and interest expenses and decreased operating revenues partially offset by increased gain on sale of assets. Operating revenues decreased by $35.2 million largely due to decreases in natural gas and brokered natural gas revenues, partially offset by an increase in crude oil and condensate revenues. Operating expenses increased by $90.2 million between periods due primarily to increases in depreciation, depletion and amortization, impairment of oil and gas properties and other assets, general and administrative expense and direct operations. These increases were partially offset by decreases in brokered natural gas cost, taxes other than income and exploration expense. Revenue, Price and Volume Variances Below is a discussion of revenue, price and volume variances. Year Ended December 31, Variance 2010 2009 Amount Percent Revenue Variances (In thousands) Natural Gas(1) $ 694,803 $ 731,688 $ (36,885) (5 %) Brokered Natural Gas 65,281 75,283 (10,002) (13 %) Crude Oil and Condensate 79,091 69,936 9,155 13 % Other 5,086 4,323 763 18 % (1) Natural Gas Revenues exclude the unrealized loss from the change in fair value of our basis swaps of $0.2 million and $2.0 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Year Ended December 31, Variance Increase(Decrease)(In thousands) 2010 2009 Amount Percent Price Variances Natural Gas(1) $ 5.54 $ 7.47 $ (1.93 ) (26 %) $ (242,758 ) Crude Oil and Condensate(2) $ 97.91 $ 85.52 $ 12.39 14 % 10,010 Total $ (232,748 ) Volume Variances Natural Gas (Mmcf) 125,474 97,914 27,560 28 % $ 205,873 Crude Oil and Condensate (Mbbl) 808 818 (10 ) (1 %) (855 ) Total $ 205,018 (1) These prices include the realized impact of derivative instrument settlements, which increased the price by $1.23 per Mcf in 2010 and by $3.80 per Mcf in 2009. (2) These prices include the realized impact of derivative instrument settlements, which increased the price by $22.31 per Bbl in 2010 and by $28.85 per Bbl in 2009. - 44 - Table of Contents Natural Gas Revenues The decrease in Natural Gas Revenue of $36.9 million, excluding the impact of the unrealized gains and losses discussed above, is due primarily to the decrease in realized natural gas prices, decreased production in the South region associated with normal production declines, delays in completions and a shift from gas to oil projects, as well as the sale of our Canadian properties in April 2009. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in natural gas production in the North region associated with increased drilling and the start up of a portion of the Lathrop compressor station in the Marcellus shale at the end of the second quarter of 2010. Crude Oil and Condensate Revenues The $9.2 million increase in crude oil and condensate revenues is primarily due to an increase in realized crude oil prices and an increase in crude oil production in the South region associated with the Eagle Ford shale and Pettet formation production. These increases are partially offset by lower production in the North region as well as the sale of our Canadian properties in April 2009. Brokered Natural Gas Revenue and Cost Year EndedDecember 31, Variance Price andVolumeVariances(In thousands) 2010 2009 Amount Percent Brokered Natural Gas Sales Sales Price ($/Mcf) $ 5.41 $ 5.95 $ (0.54 ) (9 %) $ (6,527 ) Volume Brokered (Mmcf) x 12,072 x 12,656 (584 ) (5 %) (3,475 ) Brokered Natural Gas Revenues (In thousands) $ 65,281 $ 75,283 $ (10,002 ) Brokered Natural Gas Purchases Purchase Price ($/Mcf) $ 4.68 $ 5.30 $ (0.62 ) (12 %) $ 7,489 Volume Brokered (Mmcf) x 12,072 x 12,656 (584 ) (5 %) 3,075 Brokered Natural Gas Cost (In thousands) $ 56,466 $ 67,030 $ 10,564 Brokered Natural Gas Margin (In thousands) $ 8,815 $ 8,253 $ 562 The increased brokered natural gas margin of $0.6 million is a result of a lesser decrease in sales price than in purchase price, partially offset by a decrease in volumes brokered. - 45 - Table of Contents Impact of Derivative Instruments on Operating Revenues The following table reflects the realized impact of cash settlements and the net unrealized change in fair value of derivative instruments: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (In thousands) Realized Unrealized Realized Unrealized Operating Revenues—Increase / (Decrease) to Revenue Cash Flow Hedges Natural Gas $ 154,960 $ — $ 371,915 $ — Crude Oil 18,030 — 23,112 — Total Cash Flow Hedges 172,990 — 395,027 — Other Derivative Financial Instruments Natural Gas Basis Swaps — (226 ) — (1,954 ) Total Other Derivative Financial Instruments — (226 ) — (1,954 ) Total Cash Flow Hedges and Other Derivative Financial Instruments $ 172,990 $ (226 ) $ 395,027 $ (1,954 ) Operating and Other Expenses Year Ended December 31, Variance (In thousands) 2010 2009 Amount Percent Operating and Other Expenses Brokered Natural Gas Cost $ 56,466 $ 67,030 $ (10,564 ) (16 %) Direct Operations—Field and Pipeline 99,642 93,985 5,657 6 % Taxes Other Than Income 37,894 44,649 (6,755 ) (15 %) Exploration 42,725 50,784 (8,059 ) (16 %) Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 327,083 251,260 75,823 30 % Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties and Other Assets 40,903 17,622 23,281 132 % General and Administrative 79,177 68,374 10,803 16 % Total Operating Expense $ 683,890 $ 593,704 $ 90,186 15 % (Gain) / Loss on Sale of Assets $ (106,294 ) $ 3,303 $ (109,597 ) (3,318 %) Interest Expense and Other 67,941 58,979 8,962 15 % Income Tax Expense 95,112 74,947 20,165 27 % Total costs and expenses from operations increased by $90.2 million from 2009 to 2010. The primary reasons for this fluctuation are as follows: • Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization increased by $75.8 million from 2009 to 2010, primarily due to increased depreciation and depletion from increased capital spending and higher equivalent production volumes. Amortization of unproved properties increased $17.6 million primarily due to increased unproved leasehold costs in the Marcellus shale and the Eagle Ford shale in south Texas in late 2009 and continuing into 2010. • Impairment of Oil & Gas Properties and Other Assets increased by $23.3 million from 2009 to 2010. Impairments in 2010 consisted of a $35.8 million impairment of two south Texas fields due to continued price declines and limited activity and a $5.1 million impairment related to drilling and service equipment. - 46 - Table of Contents • General and Administrative expenses increased by $10.8 million from 2009 to 2010. The increase is primarily due to a $9.9 million increase in legal expenses primarily related to the December 2010 PaDEP settlement, ongoing litigation and related legal fees, a $8.3 million increase in pension expense primarily due to termination and amendment of our pension plans and a $2.4 million increase in incentive compensation. These increases were partially offset by an $8.5 million decrease in stock compensation expense primarily due to prior year awards that fully vested in February 2010 and a reduction in stock price. • Brokered Natural Gas Cost decreased by $10.6 million from 2009 to 2010. See the preceding table titled “Brokered Natural Gas Revenue and Cost” for further analysis. • Exploration expense decreased by $8.1 million from 2009 to 2010 primarily due to lower dry hole costs as a result of drilling one dry hole in 2010 compared to two dry holes in 2009. The decrease was partially offset by higher geophysical and geological expenses associated with seismic purchases related to our Marcellus, Eagle Ford and Haynesville shale properties during 2010. • Taxes Other Than Income decreased by $6.8 million from 2009 to 2010 primarily due to decreased production and ad valorem taxes due to lower natural gas prices and property values partially offset by increased business and occupational taxes and franchise taxes. • Direct Operations expenses increased by $5.7 million from 2009 to 2010 primarily due to lease maintenance expense in both the North and South regions and plug and abandonment costs in the North region related to plugging and abandoning three vertical wells in accordance with the PaDEP’s Second Modified Consent Order. Gain / (Loss) on Sale of Assets Gain / (Loss) on Sale of Assets increased by $109.6 million from 2009 to 2010. During 2010, we recognized a gain of $49.3 million from the sale of our Pennsylvania gathering infrastructure, $40.7 million from the sale of our investment in Tourmaline, $10.8 million from the sale of certain oil and gas properties in the Texas Panhandle, $10.3 million on the sale of our Woodford shale properties, partially offset by an impairment loss of $5.1 million on certain oil and gas properties in Colorado. During 2009, we recognized a $16.0 million loss on sale of assets primarily due to the sale of the Canadian properties, partially offset by a $12.7 million gain on sale of assets related to the sale of our Thornwood properties in the North region. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net increased by $9.0 million from 2009 to 2010 primarily due to an increase in weighted-average borrowings under our credit facility based on daily balances of approximately $340.4 million during 2010 compared to approximately $166 million during 2009, and to a lesser extent to the $175.0 million of debt we issued in December 2010. The weighted-average effective interest rate on the credit facility decreased to approximately 3.8% during 2010 compared to approximately 4.0% during 2009. Interest expense in 2010 also includes a make-whole premium payment of $2.8 million associated with the early payment of $75.0 million of the 7.33% fixed rate notes that were due in July 2011. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense increased by $20.2 million due to a higher effective tax rate offset by a decrease in our pre-tax income. The effective tax rates for 2010 and 2009 were 47.9% and 33.6%, respectively. The effective tax rate was higher primarily due to an increase in our state rates used in establishing deferred income taxes mainly due to a shift in our state apportionment factors to higher rate states, primarily in Pennsylvania, as a result of our increased focus on development of our Marcellus shale properties. - 47 - Table of Contents 2009 and 2008 Compared We reported net income for 2009 of $148.3 million, or $1.43 per share. During 2008, we reported net income of $211.3 million, or $2.10 per share. Net income decreased in 2009 by $63.0 million, primarily due to decreased operating revenues and increased operating expenses, partially offset by increased gain on sale of assets. Operating revenues decreased by $66.5 million largely due to decreases in brokered natural gas and natural gas revenues. Operating expenses decreased by $33.1 million between periods due primarily to decreases in brokered natural gas costs, taxes other than income and general and administrative expenses, partially offset by increased depreciation, depletion and amortization, exploration expense and direct operations. In addition, net income was impacted in 2009 by higher interest expense, decreased income tax expense and, to a lesser extent, loss on sale of assets. Income tax expense was lower in 2009 as a result of a decrease in operating income, as discussed above, and a decrease in the effective tax rate. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to an overall reduction in state deferred tax liabilities and tax benefits associated with foreign tax credits. Revenue, Price and Volume Variances Below is a discussion of revenue, price and volume variances. Year Ended December 31, Variance 2009 2008 Amount Percent Revenue Variances (In thousands) Natural Gas(1) $ 731,688 $ 758,755 $ (27,067 ) (4 %) Brokered Natural Gas 75,283 114,220 (38,937 ) (34 %) Crude Oil and Condensate 69,936 69,711 225 0 % Other 4,323 3,105 1,218 39 % (1) Natural Gas Revenues exclude the unrealized loss from the change in fair value of our basis swaps of $2.0 million in 2009. There was no impact from the unrealized change in natural gas derivative fair value for 2008. Year Ended December 31, Variance Increase(Decrease)(In thousands) 2009 2008 Amount Percent Price Variances Natural Gas(1) $ 7.47 $ 8.39 $ (0.92 ) (11 %) $ (89,606 ) Crude Oil and Condensate (2) $ 85.52 $ 89.11 $ (3.59 ) (4 %) (2,966 ) Total $ (92,572 ) Volume Variances Natural Gas (Mmcf) 97,914 90,425 7,489 8 % $ 62,539 Crude Oil and Condensate (Mbbl) 818 782 36 5 % 3,191 Total $ 65,730 (1) These prices include the realized impact of derivative instrument settlements, which increased the price by $3.80 per Mcf in 2009 and by $0.20 per Mcf in 2008. (2) These prices include the realized impact of derivative instrument settlements, which increased the price by $28.25 per Bbl in 2009 and decreased the price by $6.33 per Bbl in 2008. Natural Gas Revenues The decrease in Natural Gas Revenue of $27.1 million, excluding the impact of the unrealized gains and losses discussed above, is almost entirely due to the sale of our Canadian properties and a decrease in realized natural gas prices that was essentially offset by an increase in natural gas production. This increase in natural gas - 48 - Table of Contents production was primarily a result of increased production in the North region associated with the initiation of production in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania in the third quarter of 2008 and increased drilling in the Marcellus shale prospect in Susquehanna County as well as increased natural gas production in the South region associated with the properties we acquired in east Texas in August 2008 and drilling in the Angie field. Partially offsetting these production gains were decreases in production in Canada due to the sale of substantially all of our Canadian properties in April 2009. Crude Oil and Condensate Revenues The increase in crude oil production, partially offset by a decrease in realized crude oil prices, resulted in a net revenue increase of $0.2 million. The increase in crude oil production was primarily the result of increased production in the South region associated with the properties we acquired in the east Texas acquisition in August 2008 and an increase related to Pettet formation production in the Angie field, partially offset by a decrease in production in Canada due to the sale of substantially all of our Canadian properties in April 2009. Brokered Natural Gas Revenue and Cost Year Ended December 31, Variance Price andVolumeVariances(In thousands) 2009 2008 Amount Percent Brokered Natural Gas Sales Sales Price ($/Mcf) $ 5.95 $ 10.39 $ (4.44 ) (43 %) $ (56,185 ) Volume Brokered (Mmcf) x 12,656 x 10,996 1,660 15 % 17,248 Brokered Natural Gas Revenues (In thousands) $ 75,283 $ 114,220 $ (38,937 ) Brokered Natural Gas Purchases Purchase Price ($/Mcf) $ 5.30 $ 9.14 $ (3.84 ) (42 %) $ 48,592 Volume Brokered (Mmcf) x 12,656 x 10,996 1,660 15 % (15,173 ) Brokered Natural Gas Cost (In thousands) $ 67,030 $ 100,449 $ 33,419 Brokered Natural Gas Margin (In thousands) $ 8,253 $ 13,771 $ (5,518 ) The decreased brokered natural gas margin of $5.5 million is a result of a decrease in sales price that outpaced the decrease in purchase price, partially offset by an increase in volumes brokered. Impact of Derivative Instruments on Operating Revenues The following table reflects the realized impact of cash settlements and the net unrealized change in fair value of derivative instruments: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (In thousands) Realized Unrealized Realized Unrealized Operating Revenues—Increase / (Decrease) to Revenue Cash Flow Hedges Natural Gas Production $ 371,915 $ — $ 17,972 $ — Crude Oil 23,112 — (4,951 ) — Total Cash Flow Hedges 395,027 — 13,021 — Other Derivative Financial Instruments Natural Gas Basis Swaps — (1,954 ) — — Total Other Derivative Financial Instruments — (1,954 ) — — Total Cash Flow Hedges and Other Derivative Financial Instruments $ 395,027 $ (1,954 ) $ 13,021 $ — - 49 - Table of Contents Operating and Other Expenses Year Ended December 31, Variance (In thousands) 2009 2008 Amount Percent Operating and Other Expenses Brokered Natural Gas Cost $ 67,030 $ 100,449 $ (33,419 ) (33 %) Direct Operations—Field and Pipeline 93,985 91,839 2,146 2 % Taxes Other Than Income 44,649 66,540 (21,891 ) (33 %) Exploration 50,784 31,200 19,584 63 % Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 251,260 226,915 24,345 11 % Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties and Other Assets 17,622 35,700 (18,078 ) (51 %) General and Administrative 68,374 74,185 (5,811 ) (8 %) Total Operating Expense $ 593,704 $ 626,828 $ (33,124 ) (5 %) (Gain) / Loss on Sale of Assets $ 3,303 $ (1,143 ) $ 4,446 389 % Interest Expense and Other 58,979 36,389 22,590 62 % Income Tax Expense 74,947 124,333 (49,386 ) (40 %) Total costs and expenses from operations decreased by $33.1 million in 2009 from 2008. The primary reasons for this fluctuation are as follows: • Brokered Natural Gas Cost decreased by $33.4 million from 2008 to 2009. See the preceding table titled “Brokered Natural Gas Revenue and Cost” for further analysis. • Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization increased by $24.3 million from 2008 to 2009. This is primarily due to the impact on the DD&A rate of higher capital costs and higher natural gas and oil production volumes, including the east Texas acquisition in August 2008. Amortization of unproved properties decreased by $11.5 million from 2008 to 2009, primarily due to the $17.0 million impairment of Mississippi, Montana and North Dakota leases in 2008 offset by increased lease acquisition costs incurred in several exploratory and developmental areas in the North and in east Texas as well as the amortization of undeveloped costs associated with the east Texas acquisition in August 2008. • Taxes Other Than Income decreased by $21.9 million from 2008 to 2009 due to lower production taxes as a result of lower average natural gas and crude oil prices. • Exploration expense increased by $19.6 million from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to higher charges for idle contract rigs and higher dry hole and geological and geophysical costs. • Impairment of Oil & Gas Properties and Other Assets decreased by $18.1 million from 2008 to 2009. Impairments in 2009 consisted of approximately $12.0 million in the Fossil Federal field in San Miguel County, Colorado resulting from lower well performance and $5.6 million in the Beaurline field in Hidalgo County, Texas resulting from lower well performance. • General and Administrative expenses decreased by $5.8 million from 2008 to 2009. This is primarily due to decreased stock compensation expense largely related to a reduction in supplemental employee compensation expense of $14.7 million, partially offset by an increase in performance share award expense of $5.5 million and an increase in pension expense related to our qualified pension plan. • Direct Operations expenses increased by $2.1 million from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to higher personnel and labor expenses, increased severance and employee relocation costs associated with the reorganization of operations and higher compressor and outside operated properties charges. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net increased by $22.6 million from 2008 to 2009 primarily due to increased interest expense related to the $492 million principal amount of debt we issued in our July and December 2008 private - 50 - Table of Contents placements. Weighted-average borrowings under our credit facility based on daily balances were approximately $166 million during 2009 compared to approximately $172 million during 2008. The weighted-average effective interest rate on the credit facility decreased to approximately 4.0% during 2009 compared to approximately 4.8% during 2008. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense decreased by $49.4 million due to a decrease in our pre-tax income. The effective tax rates for 2009 and 2008 were 33.6% and 37.0%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to an overall reduction in state deferred tax liabilities and tax benefits associated with foreign tax credits. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market Risk Our primary market risk is exposure to oil and natural gas prices. Realized prices are mainly driven by worldwide prices for oil and spot market prices for North American natural gas production. Commodity prices are volatile and unpredictable. The capital markets continue to be volatile with periods of easy access and times with unfavorable conditions. As a result of the volatility in the capital markets and our increased level of borrowings, we may at times experience increased costs associated with future borrowings and debt issuances based on recent financings. At this time, we do not believe our liquidity has been materially affected by market events. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activity Our hedging strategy is designed to reduce the risk of price volatility for our production in the natural gas and crude oil markets. A hedging committee that consists of members of senior management oversees our hedging activity. Our hedging arrangements apply to only a portion of our production and provide only partial price protection. These hedging arrangements limit the benefit to us of increases in prices, but offer protection in the event of price declines. Further, if our counterparties defaulted, this protection might be limited as we might not receive the benefits of the hedges. Please read the discussion below as well as Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of our hedging arrangements. Periodically, we enter into derivative commodity instruments to hedge our exposure to price fluctuations on natural gas and crude oil production. Our credit agreement restricts our ability to enter into commodity hedges other than to hedge or mitigate risks to which we have actual or projected exposure or as permitted under our risk management policies and not subjecting us to material speculative risks. As of December 31, 2010, we had 11 derivative contracts open: four natural gas price swap arrangements, six natural gas basis swaps arrangements and one crude oil price collar arrangement. During 2010, we entered into a total of six new derivative contracts including one crude oil swap contract for 2010, four natural gas swap contracts for 2011 and one crude oil collar contract for 2011. - 51 - Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, we had the following outstanding commodity derivatives: Commodity and Derivative Type Weighted-Average Contract Price Volume Contract Period Net UnrealizedGain / (Loss)(In thousands) Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments Natural Gas Swaps $6.24 per Mcf 12,909 Mmcf January - December 2011 $ 18,669 Crude Oil Collars $93.25 Ceiling /$80.00 Floor per Bbl 365 Mbbl January - December 2011 (1,743 ) $ 16,926 Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments Natural Gas Basis Swaps $(0.27) per Mcf 16,123 Mmcf January - December 2012 (2,180 ) $ 14,746 The amounts set forth under the net unrealized gain / (loss) column in the tables above represent our total unrealized derivative position at December 31, 2010 and include the impact of nonperformance risk. Nonperformance risk was primarily evaluated by reviewing credit default swap spreads for the various financial institutions in which we have derivative transactions. From time to time, we enter into natural gas and crude oil swap agreements with counterparties to hedge price risk associated with a portion of our production. These cash flow hedges are not held for trading purposes. Under these price swaps, we receive a fixed price on a notional quantity of natural gas or crude oil in exchange for paying a variable price based on a market-based index, such as the NYMEX gas and crude oil futures. During 2010, natural gas price swaps covered 35.9 Bcf, or 29%, of our 2010 gas production at an average price of $9.30 per Mcf. We had two crude oil price swaps covering 730 Mbbl, or 90%, of our 2010 oil production at an average price of $104.25 per Bbl. During 2010, we also entered into crude oil swaps to hedge our price exposure on our 2010 production, natural gas swaps to hedge our price exposure on our 2011 production and crude oil price collars to hedge our price exposure on our 2011 production. In addition, we also have natural gas basis swaps covering a portion of anticipated 2012 production, which do not qualify for hedge accounting. We are exposed to market risk on derivative instruments to the extent of changes in market prices of natural gas and crude oil. However, the market risk exposure on these derivative contracts is generally offset by the gain or loss recognized upon the ultimate sale of the commodity. Although notional contract amounts are used to express the volume of natural gas agreements, the amounts that can be subject to credit risk in the event of non-performance by third parties are substantially smaller. We do not anticipate any material impact on our financial results due to non-performance by third parties. Our primary derivative contract counterparties are Bank of Montreal, JPMorgan, Bank of America and BNP Paribas. The preceding paragraphs contain forward-looking information concerning future production and projected gains and losses, which may be impacted both by production and by changes in the future market prices of energy commodities. See “Forward-Looking Information” for further details. Fair Market Value of Financial Instruments The estimated fair value of financial instruments is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged currently between willing parties. The carrying amounts reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximate fair value due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. - 52 - Table of Contents The fair value of long-term debt is the estimated cost to acquire the debt, including a credit spread for the difference between the issue rate and the period end market rate. The credit spread is our default or repayment risk. The credit spread (premium or discount) is determined by comparing our fixed-rate notes and credit facility to new issuances (secured and unsecured) and secondary trades of similar size and credit statistics for both public and private debt. The fair value of all of the fixed-rate notes and the credit facility is based on interest rates currently available to the us. We use available marketing data and valuation methodologies to estimate the fair value of debt. The carrying amounts and fair values of long-term debt are as follows: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (In thousands) CarryingAmount EstimatedFair Value CarryingAmount EstimatedFair Value Long-Term Debt $ 975,000 $ 1,100,830 $ 805,000 $ 863,559 - 53 - Table of Contents ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 55 Consolidated Statement of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 56 Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2010 and 2009 57 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 58 Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 59 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 60 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 61 Supplemental Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited) 105 Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) 110 - 54 - Table of Contents REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation: In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, comprehensive income and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Houston, Texas February 28, 2011 - 55 - Table of Contents CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December 31, (In thousands, except per share amounts) 2010 2009 2008 OPERATING REVENUES Natural Gas $ 694,577 $ 729,734 $ 758,755 Brokered Natural Gas 65,281 75,283 114,220 Crude Oil and Condensate 79,091 69,936 69,711 Other 5,086 4,323 3,105 844,035 879,276 945,791 OPERATING EXPENSES Brokered Natural Gas Cost 56,466 67,030 100,449 Direct Operations—Field and Pipeline 99,642 93,985 91,839 Taxes Other Than Income 37,894 44,649 66,540 Exploration 42,725 50,784 31,200 Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 327,083 251,260 226,915 Impairment of Oil & Gas Properties and Other Assets 40,903 17,622 35,700 General and Administrative 79,177 68,374 74,185 683,890 593,704 626,828 Gain/(Loss) on Sale of Assets 106,294 (3,303 ) 1,143 Gain on Settlement of Dispute — — 51,906 INCOME FROM OPERATIONS 266,439 282,269 372,012 Interest Expense and Other 67,941 58,979 36,389 Income Before Income Taxes 198,498 223,290 335,623 Income Tax Expense 95,112 74,947 124,333 NET INCOME $ 103,386 $ 148,343 $ 211,290 Earnings Per Share Basic $ 0.99 $ 1.43 $ 2.10 Diluted $ 0.98 $ 1.42 $ 2.08 Weighted-Average Common Shares Outstanding Basic 103,911 103,616 100,737 Diluted 105,195 104,683 101,726 Dividends Per Common Share $ 0.12 $ 0.12 $ 0.12 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. - 56 - Table of Contents CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET December 31, December 31, (In thousands, except share amounts) 2010 2009 ASSETS Current Assets Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 55,949 $ 40,158 Accounts Receivable, Net 94,488 80,362 Income Taxes Receivable — 8,909 Inventories 29,667 27,990 Derivative Instruments 16,926 114,686 Other Current Assets 5,978 9,397 Total Current Assets 203,008 281,502 Properties and Equipment, Net (Successful Efforts Method) 3,762,760 3,358,199 Other Assets 39,263 43,700 $ 4,005,031 $ 3,683,401 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current Liabilities Accounts Payable $ 229,981 $ 215,588 Income Taxes Payable 25,957 — Accrued Liabilities 47,897 58,049 Deferred Income Taxes — 35,104 Total Current Liabilities 303,835 308,741 Pension and Postretirement Benefits 34,053 54,835 Long-Term Debt 975,000 805,000 Deferred Income Taxes 714,953 644,801 Asset Retirement Obligation 72,311 29,676 Other Liabilities 32,179 27,834 Total Liabilities 2,132,331 1,870,887 Commitments and Contingencies (Note 8) Stockholders’ Equity Common Stock: Authorized—240,000,000 Shares of $0.10 Par Value in 2010 and 2009 Issued—104,210,084 Shares and 103,856,447 Shares in 2010 and 2009, respectively 10,421 10,386 Additional Paid-in Capital 720,920 705,569 Retained Earnings 1,148,391 1,057,472 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) (3,683 ) 42,436 Less Treasury Stock, at Cost:202,200 Shares in 2010 and 2009, respectively (3,349 ) (3,349 ) Total Stockholders’ Equity 1,872,700 1,812,514 $ 4,005,031 $ 3,683,401 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. - 57 - Table of Contents CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Year Ended December 31, (In thousands) 2010 2009 2008 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net Income $ 103,386 $ 148,343 $ 211,290 Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Cash Provided by Operating Activities: Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 327,083 251,260 226,915 Impairment of Oil & Gas Properties and Other Assets 40,903 17,622 35,700 Deferred Income Tax Expense 61,809 101,815 120,851 (Gain) / Loss on Sale of Assets (106,294 ) 3,303 (1,143 ) Gain on Settlement of Dispute — — (31,706 ) Exploration Expense 11,657 50,784 31,200 Unrealized Loss on Derivatives 226 1,954 — Amortization of Debt Issuance Cost 3,381 3,635 634 Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Other 15,413 25,924 14,989 Changes in Assets and Liabilities: Accounts Receivable, Net (14,125 ) 28,725 (3,928 ) Inventories (1,677 ) 17,687 (18,324 ) Other Current Assets 3,675 3,103 10,816 Other Assets and Other Liabilities 6,204 531 6,422 Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities (1,488 ) (27,202 ) 3,321 Income Taxes 34,866 358 38,101 Stock-Based Compensation Tax Benefit (108 ) (13,790 ) (10,691 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 484,911 614,052 634,447 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Capital Expenditures (857,251 ) (610,813 ) (848,640 ) Acquisitions — (394 ) (605,748 ) Proceeds from Sale of Assets 243,510 80,180 2,099 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (613,741 ) (531,027 ) (1,452,289 ) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Borrowings from Debt 525,000 105,000 892,000 Repayments of Debt (355,000 ) (167,000 ) (375,000 ) Net Proceeds from Sale of Common Stock 801 83 316,230 Stock-Based Compensation Tax Benefit 108 13,790 10,691 Dividends Paid (12,467 ) (12,432 ) (12,073 ) Capitalized Debt Issuance Costs (13,821 ) (10,409 ) (4,403 ) Net Cash Provided by / (Used in) Financing Activities 144,621 (70,968 ) 827,445 Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 15,791 12,057 9,603 Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Period 40,158 28,101 18,498 Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Period $ 55,949 $ 40,158 $ 28,101 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. - 58 - Table of Contents CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (In thousands, except per shareamounts) CommonShares StockPar TreauryShares TreasuryStock Paid-InCapital AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome /(Loss) RetainedEarnings Total Balance at December 31, 2007 102,681 $ 10,268 5,205 $ (85,690 ) $ 424,229 $ (894 ) $ 722,344 $ 1,070,257 Net Income — — — — — — 211,290 211,290 Exercise of Stock Options 328 33 — — 2,692 — — 2,725 Retirement of Treasury Stock (5,003 ) (500 ) (5,003 ) 82,341 (81,841 ) — — — Tax Benefit of Stock-Based Compensation — — — — 10,691 — — 10,691 Stock Amortization and Vesting 418 42 — — 6,545 — — 6,587 Stock Held in Rabbi Trust 64 6 — — (3,198 ) — — (3,192 ) Stock Issued for Drilling Company Acquisition 70 7 — — 3,493 — — 3,500 Issuance of Common Stock 5,003 500 — — 312,957 — — 313,457 Cash Dividends at $0.12 per Share — — — — — — (12,073 ) (12,073 ) Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) — — — — — 187,320 — 187,320 Balance at December 31, 2008 103,561 $ 10,356 202 $ (3,349 ) $ 675,568 $ 186,426 $ 921,561 $ 1,790,562 Net Income — — — — — — 148,343 148,343 Exercise of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights 14 2 — — 53 — — 55 Tax Benefit of Stock-Based Compensation — — — — 13,790 — — 13,790 Stock Amortization and Vesting 281 28 — — 14,898 — — 14,926 Sale of Stock Held in Rabbi Trust — — — — 1,260 — — 1,260 Cash Dividends at $0.12 per Share — — — — — — (12,432 ) (12,432 ) Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) — — — — — (143,990 ) — (143,990 ) Balance at December 31, 2009 103,856 $ 10,386 202 $ (3,349 ) $ 705,569 $ 42,436 $ 1,057,472 $ 1,812,514 Net Income — — — — — — 103,386 103,386 Exercise of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights 39 4 — — 766 — — 770 Tax Benefit of Stock-Based Compensation — — — — 108 — — 108 Stock Amortization and Vesting 315 31 — — 12,899 — — 12,930 Sale of Stock Held in Rabbi Trust — — — — 1,578 — — 1,578 Cash Dividends at $0.12 per Share — — — — — — (12,467 ) (12,467 ) Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) — — — — — (46,119 ) — (46,119 ) Balance at December 31, 2010 104,210 $ 10,421 202 $ (3,349 ) $ 720,920 $ (3,683 ) $ 1,148,391 $ 1,872,700 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. - 59 - Table of Contents CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Year Ended December 31, (In thousands) 2010 2009 2008 Net Income $ 103,386 $ 148,343 $ 211,290 Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss), net of taxes: Reclassification Adjustment for Settled Contracts, net of taxes of $65,734, $147,048 and $4,844, respectively (107,256 ) (247,979 ) (8,177 ) Changes in Fair Value of Hedge Positions, net of taxes of $(29,777), $(57,303) and $(134,259), respectively 45,878 96,783 226,692 Defined Benefit Pension and Postretirement Plans: Net Gain / (Loss) Arising During the Year, net of taxes of $(3,245), $1,773 and $10,445, respectively $ 5,693 $ (3,009 ) $ (17,629 ) Effect of Plan Termination and Amendment, net of taxes of $(310), $0 and $0, respectively 506 — — Settlement, net of taxes of $(1,528), $0 and $0, respectively 2,493 — — Amortization of Net Obligation at Transition, net of taxes of $(240), $(236) and $(234), respectively 392 396 398 Amortization of Prior Service Cost, net of taxes of $(217), $(267) and $(373), respectively 355 450 630 Amortization of Net Loss, net of taxes of $(3,548), $(1,432) and $(603), respectively 5,788 15,227 2,422 259 1,020 (15,581 ) Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment, net of taxes of $(20), $(4,116) and $9,292, respectively 32 6,947 (15,614 ) Total Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) (46,119 ) (143,990 ) 187,320 Comprehensive Income $ 57,267 $ 4,353 $ 398,610 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. - 60 - Table of Contents CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Nature of Operations Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation and its subsidiaries are engaged in the development, exploitation, exploration, production and marketing of natural gas, crude oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas liquids. The Company also transports, stores, gathers and purchases natural gas for resale. The Company operates in one segment, natural gas and oil development, exploitation and exploration, exclusively within the continental United States. The Company’s exploration activities are concentrated in areas with known hydrocarbon resources, which are conducive to multi-well, repeatable drilling programs. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year statement to conform with current year presentation. These reclassifications have no impact on net income. In 2009, the Company reorganized its operations by combining the Rocky Mountain and Appalachian areas to form the North region and by combining the Anadarko Basin with its Texas and Louisiana areas to form the South region. Additionally, the Company exited Canada through the sale of its properties in April 2009. Prior to the third quarter of 2009, the Company presented the geographic areas as East, Gulf Coast, West and Canada. The consolidated financial statements contain the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating all significant intercompany balances and transactions. Recently Adopted Accounting Standards In February 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-09, “Subsequent Events,” which amends Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 855 to eliminate the requirement to disclose the date through which management has evaluated subsequent events in the financial statements. ASU No. 2010-09 was effective upon issuance and its adoption had no impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Effective January 1, 2010, the Company partially adopted the provisions of FASB ASU No. 2010-06, “Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements,” which amends ASC 820-10-50 to require new disclosures concerning (1) transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value measurement hierarchy, and (2) activity in Level 3 measurements. In addition, ASU No. 2010-06 clarifies certain existing disclosure requirements regarding the level of disaggregation and inputs and valuation techniques and makes conforming amendments to the guidance on employers’ disclosures about postretirement benefit plans assets. The requirements to disclose separately purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the Level 3 reconciliation are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010 (and for interim periods within such years). Accordingly, the Company will apply the disclosure requirements relative to the Level 3 reconciliation in the first quarter of 2011. There was no impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows as a result of the partial adoption of ASU No. 2010-06. For further information, please refer to Note 14. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents were primarily concentrated in one financial institution at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Company periodically assesses the financial condition of these institutions and considers any possible credit risk to be minimal. Inventories Inventories are comprised of natural gas in storage, tubular goods and well equipment and pipeline imbalances. All inventory balances are carried at the lower of average cost or market. - 61 - Table of Contents Natural gas gathering and pipeline operations normally include imbalance arrangements with the pipeline. The volumes of natural gas due to or from the Company under imbalance arrangements are recorded at actual selling or purchase prices, as the case may be, and are adjusted monthly to reflect market changes. The net pipeline imbalance is included in inventory in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records an allowance for doubtful accounts for receivables that the Company determines to be uncollectible based on the specific identification basis. The allowance for doubtful accounts, which is netted against Accounts Receivable in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, was $4.1 million and $3.6 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Accounts Payable This account may include credit balances from outstanding checks in zero balance cash accounts. These credit balances are referred to as book overdrafts and are included as a component of Accounts Payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. There were no credit balances from outstanding checks in zero balance cash accounts included in Accounts Payable at December 31, 2010 and 2009 as sufficient cash was available for offset. Properties and Equipment The Company uses the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities. Under this method, acquisition costs for proved and unproved properties are capitalized when incurred. Exploration costs, including geological and geophysical costs, the costs of carrying and retaining unproved properties and exploratory dry hole drilling costs, are expensed. Development costs, including the costs to drill and equip development wells and successful exploratory drilling costs to locate proved reserves are capitalized. Exploratory drilling costs are capitalized when incurred pending the determination of whether a well has found proved reserves. The determination is based on a process which relies on interpretations of available geologic, geophysical, and engineering data. If a well is determined to be successful, the capitalized drilling costs will be reclassified as part of the cost of the well. If a well is determined to be unsuccessful, the capitalized drilling costs will be charged to expense in the period the determination is made. If an exploratory well requires a major capital expenditure before production can begin, the cost of drilling the exploratory well will continue to be carried as an asset pending determination of whether proved reserves have been found only as long as: i) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well if the required capital expenditure is made and ii) drilling of the additional exploratory wells is under way or firmly planned for the near future. If drilling in the area is not under way or firmly planned, or if the well has not found a commercially producible quantity of reserves, the exploratory well is assumed to be impaired, and its costs are charged to exploration expense. Development costs of proved oil and gas properties, including estimated dismantlement, restoration and abandonment costs and acquisition costs, are depreciated and depleted on a field basis by the units-of-production method using proved developed and proved reserves, respectively. Properties related to gathering and pipeline systems and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives ranging from 10 to 25 years. Generally pipeline and transmission systems are depreciated over 12 to 25 years, gathering and compression equipment is depreciated over 10 years and storage equipment and facilities are depreciated over 10 to 16 years. Certain other assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 3 to 10 years. Buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 25 to 40 years. Costs of retired, sold or abandoned properties that make up a part of an amortization base (partial field) are charged to accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization if the units-of-production rate is not - 62 - Table of Contents significantly affected. Accordingly, a gain or loss, if any, is recognized only when a group of proved properties (entire field) that make up the amortization base has been retired, abandoned or sold. The Company evaluates the impairment of its oil and gas properties and other assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company compares expected undiscounted future cash flows to the net book value of the asset. If the future undiscounted expected cash flows, based on estimates of future crude oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and anticipated production from proved reserves are lower than the net book value of the asset, the capitalized cost is reduced to fair value. Commodity pricing is estimated by using a combination of assumptions management uses in its budgeting and forecasting process as well as historical and current prices adjusted for geographical location and quality differentials, as well as other factors that management believes will impact realizable prices. Fair value is calculated by discounting the future cash flows. The discount factor used is based on rates utilized by market participants that are commensurate with the risks inherent in the development and production of the underlying natural gas and oil. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded total impairments of $40.9 million, $17.6 million and $31.3 million (excluding the impairment of $4.4 million of goodwill), respectively. Costs attributable to the Company’s unproved properties are not subject to the impairment analysis described above; however, a portion of the costs associated with such properties is subject to amortization based on past drilling and development experience and average property lives. Average property lives are determined on a geographical basis and based on the estimated life of unproved property leasehold rights. Asset Retirement Obligations The Company records the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The associated asset retirement cost is capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. Subsequently, the asset retirement cost is allocated to expense using a systematic and rational method over the asset’s useful life. The majority of the asset retirement obligations recorded by the Company relate to the plugging and abandonment of oil and gas wells. However, liabilities are also recorded for meter stations, pipelines, processing plants and compressors. At December 31, 2010, there were no assets legally restricted for purposes of settling asset retirement obligations. Additional retirement obligations increase the liability associated with new oil and gas wells and other facilities as these obligations are incurred. Accretion expense is included within Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization expense on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations. Risk Management Activities From time to time, the Company enters into derivative contracts, such as natural gas and crude oil price swaps or zero-cost price collars, as a hedging strategy to manage commodity price risk associated with its production or other contractual commitments. All hedge transactions are subject to the Company’s risk management policy which does not permit speculative trading activities. Gains or losses on these hedging activities are generally recognized over the period that its production or other underlying commitment is hedged as an offset to the specific hedged item. Cash flows related to any recognized gains or losses associated with these hedges are reported as cash flows from operations. If a hedge is terminated prior to expected maturity, gains or losses are deferred and included in income in the same period that the underlying production or other contractual commitment is delivered. Unrealized gains or losses associated with any derivative contract not considered a hedge are recognized currently in the results of operations. When the designated item associated with a derivative instrument matures or is sold, extinguished or terminated, derivative gains or losses are recognized as part of the gain or loss on the sale or settlement of the underlying item. For example, in the case of natural gas price hedges, the gain or loss is reflected in natural gas revenue. When a derivative instrument is associated with an anticipated transaction that is no longer expected to - 63 - Table of Contents occur or if the hedge is no longer effective, the gain or loss on the derivative is recognized currently in the results of operations to the extent the market value changes in the derivative have not been offset by the effects of the price changes on the hedged item since the inception of the hedge. Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the amended disclosure requirements prescribed in ASC 815, “Derivatives and Hedging.” Revenue Recognition Gas Imbalance The Company applies the sales method of accounting for natural gas revenue. Under this method, revenues are recognized based on the actual volume of natural gas sold to purchasers. Natural gas production operations may include joint owners who take more or less than the production volumes entitled to them on certain properties. Production volume is monitored to minimize these natural gas imbalances. A natural gas imbalance liability is recorded at the actual price realized upon the gas sale in Accounts Payable in the Consolidated Balance Sheet if the Company’s excess takes of natural gas exceed its estimated remaining proved developed reserves for these properties. Brokered Natural Gas Margin The revenues and expenses related to brokering natural gas are reported gross as part of Operating Revenues and Operating Expenses in accordance with ASC 605-45, “Revenue Recognition: Principle Agent Considerations”. The Company realizes brokered margin as a result of buying and selling natural gas utilizing separate purchase and sale transactions, typically with separate counterparties, whereby the Company and/or the counterparty takes title to the natural gas purchased or sold. The Company realized $8.8 million, $8.3 million and $13.8 million of brokered natural gas margin in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Natural Gas Measurement The Company records estimated amounts for natural gas revenues and natural gas purchase costs based on volumetric calculations under its natural gas sales and purchase contracts. Variances or imbalances resulting from such calculations are inherent in natural gas sales, production, operation, measurement, and administration. Management does not believe that differences between actual and estimated natural gas revenues or purchase costs attributable to the unresolved variances or imbalances are material. Income Taxes The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to the differences between the financial carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rate in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in the year of the enacted rate change. A valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that the related tax benefits will not be realized. The Company is required to make judgments, including estimating reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that the Company has taken. The Company accounts for uncertainty in income taxes using a recognition and measurement threshold for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The tax benefit from an uncertain tax position is recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities based on technical merits of the position. The amount of the tax benefit recognized is the largest amount of the benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The effective tax rate and the tax basis of assets and liabilities reflect management’s estimates of the ultimate outcome of various tax uncertainties. - 64 - Table of Contents The Company recognizes accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions in Interest Expense and Other expense and accrued penalties related to such positions in General and Administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation under a fair value based method of accounting prescribed under ASC 718. Under the fair value method, compensation cost is measured at the grant date and remeasured each reporting period for liability-classified awards based on the fair value of an award and is recognized over the service period, which is usually the vesting period. To calculate the fair value, either a binomial or Black-Scholes valuation model may be used. Stock-based compensation cost for all types of awards is included in General and Administrative Expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The tax benefit for stock-based compensation is included as both a cash inflow from financing activities and a cash outflow from operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In accordance with ASC 718, the Company recognizes a tax benefit only to the extent it reduces the Company’s income taxes payable. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company realized tax benefits of $0.1 million, $13.8 million and $10.7 million, respectively. Environmental Matters Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized, as appropriate, depending on their future economic benefit. Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations, and that do not have future economic benefit are expensed. Liabilities related to future costs are recorded on an undiscounted basis when environmental assessments and/or remediation activities are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Any insurance recoveries are recorded as assets when received. Market Risk The Company’s primary market risk is exposure to oil and natural gas prices. Realized prices are mainly driven by worldwide prices for oil and spot market prices for North American natural gas production. Commodity prices are volatile and unpredictable. The capital markets continue to be volatile with periods of easy access and times with unfavorable conditions. As a result of the volatility in the capital markets and the Company’s increased level of borrowings, it may a times experience increased costs associated with future borrowings and debt issuances based on recent financings. At this time, the Company does not believe its liquidity has been materially affected by market events. Credit Risk Although notional contract amounts are used to express the volume of natural gas price agreements, the amounts that can be subject to credit risk in the event of non-performance by third parties are substantially smaller. The Company does not anticipate any material impact on its financial results due to non-performance by the third parties. In 2010, one customer accounted for approximately 11% of the Company’s total sales. In 2009, two customers accounted for approximately 13% and 11%, respectively, of the Company’s total sales. In 2008, one customer accounted for approximately 16% of the Company’s total sales. Use of Estimates In preparing financial statements, the Company follows generally accepted accounting principles. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and - 65 - Table of Contents liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The most significant estimates pertain to proved natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil reserves and related cash flow estimates used in impairment tests of oil and gas properties, natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil revenues and expenses, current values of derivative instruments, as well as estimates of expenses related to legal, environmental and other contingencies, depreciation, depletion and amortization, asset retirement obligations, pension and postretirement obligations, stock-based compensation and deferred income taxes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 