ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those listed below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us also may impair our financial condition and business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations would suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in those forward-looking statements. Risks Related to the Business Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. Given this fluctuation, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of results of operations are not necessarily an accurate indicator of future performance. As a result, results of operations may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future. If this occurs, the price of our common stock would likely decline. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations could include the following: • slowing sales to new and existing customers; • loss of customers; • volume, timing and fulfillment of customer contracts; • unanticipated expenses; • acquisitions of businesses, including transaction costs, which are expensed in the period incurred; • introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • seasonality in revenues; • downward pricing pressure in response to competition or market conditions; • impairment charges against goodwill and other intangible assets; • changes to estimated contingent consideration related to acquisitions; • write-offs of accounts receivable that are not collectible; • increased expenditures incurred pursuing acquisitions of businesses and new product or market opportunities; • general economic trends as they affect revenues; • higher than anticipated unit costs related to fixed unit price contracts with customers; • higher than anticipated costs related to regulatory compliance; • disruptions in, or increases in costs related to, the services provided by offshore partners; and • failure of the telecommunications and technology infrastructure and systems related to receiving, processing and distributing work. Due to the foregoing factors, among others, our revenue and results of operations may differ from forecasts. Our expense levels are based in significant part on expectations of future revenue, and we may not be able to reduce expenses quickly to respond to a shortfall in projected revenue. Therefore, a failure to meet revenue expectations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which could dilute existing stockholders and could involve substantial integration risks. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other businesses and technologies. We may issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of the acquisition. We may also incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions, which may place additional restrictions on the ability to operate the business. Furthermore, prior acquisitions required substantial integration and management efforts. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: • difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, including different and complex accounting and financial reporting systems; • potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management; • potential difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of finance and accounting systems; • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into products and technology; • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; • management of geographically remote offices and operations; • impairment of relationships with partners and customers; • customers delaying purchases or seeking concessions pending resolution of integration between existing and newly acquired services or technology platforms; • entering markets or types of businesses in which management has limited experience; and • potential loss of customers or key employees of the acquired company. As a result of these and other risks, we may not realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon the ability to retain customers. Over the past three years, we have maintained high customer retention levels. Customer retention is largely dependent on providing quality service at competitive prices. Customer retention may also be impacted by events outside of our control, such as changes in customer ownership, management, financial condition and competitors’ sales efforts. If we experience a lower than expected rate of customer retention, the resulting loss of business could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent on continuing demand for medical transcription services. There are alternatives to traditional medical transcription. Some EMR products contain “point-and-click” templates which attempt to reduce the need for transcription. These solutions are most frequently deployed in ambulatory settings (clinics and physician offices) as opposed to acute care settings (hospitals). Although the inherent complexity of documentation in the acute care setting would appear to mitigate the adoption of template-based solutions, there is no guarantee that in the future these products will not be widely adopted in the acute care environment. A second alternative to traditional transcription is to have physicians document patient encounters and procedures themselves by presenting them with a speech-recognized draft of their dictation and allowing them to self-edit their documents. This approach has been adopted with limited success in radiology departments. Radiologists do not see patients, work at a computer most of the day and have short, repetitive 12 Table of Contents reports, making their work more conducive to self-editing. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that in the future self-editing will not become feasible in the acute care setting outside of radiology departments. There also is a risk that we could lose some radiology revenue over time. If these transcription replacement technologies become feasible in the acute care setting and if we are unable to provide solutions based upon such technologies, the ability to sustain and grow profitable operations could be impaired. We have a past history of operating losses and an investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. Although we reported annual net income beginning in 2006 and for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, we have incurred operating losses in the past and had a retained deficit at December 31, 2009. There is no guarantee that we will continue to maintain profitability. If we are unable to maintain profitability, the market price for our common stock may decline, perhaps substantially. Accordingly, an investment in our common stock is speculative in nature and involves a high degree of risk. We operate in an environment with competitive pricing pressure and can make no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors on the basis of price. Some competitors have lower cost structures than we do, particularly if they are small firms or operate primarily offshore. Other competitors may be willing to accept less profitable business in order to grow revenue. Competitors often offer lower prices than we do. We attempt to position ourselves in the industry as a high quality provider at a mid-level price point. Accordingly, we may lose business on the basis of price or be forced to lower prices to win new business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively, if at all, against competitors on the basis of price. Competitive pricing pressure could result in loss of market share and lower margins. Our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon the ability to sell transcription services to new customers. The medical transcription market is highly competitive. If we are not able to sell services to new customers successfully, operations may not be profitable. Failure to grow revenue could adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to obtain funding to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon our continuing ability to raise funds from the sale of our securities, to use our securities as consideration, and to obtain and maintain financing on reasonable terms and our compliance with applicable covenants. To implement our business plan we will depend on cash that may be generated from the sale of our securities, from amounts available under our credit facility and from our operations. We also expect to use our securities as consideration in connection with future acquisitions. While we have an effective shelf registration statement covering certain of our securities that could be used for capital raising purposes, there is no guarantee that there will be a market for our securities at current market prices or at any price or that using our securities as consideration would be acceptable to a potential seller in an acquisition. Therefore there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully raise additional capital or issue securities as consideration at all or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing stockholders. On August 31, 2009, we acquired MDSI. In connection with the acquisition, Transcend and MDSI entered into a credit facility with Regions Bank. Transcend and MDSI are both “borrowers” under the credit facility loan and security agreement. The credit facility requires that we abide by certain financial and other covenants. If we are unable to abide by the covenants, we may be in default under the credit facility, may not be able to make acquisitions that could be helpful to the business, and may not have enough resources to repay debt which could be incurred. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all covenants of the credit facility with the 13 Table of Contents exception of a covenant related to the annual lease expense. While Regions Bank has issued a waiver of this covenant and we have amended our credit facility with Regions Bank to increase the maximum annual lease expense allowable, there is no guarantee that we will continue to be in compliance with the financial and other covenants under our credit facility with Regions Bank or that Regions Bank will issue a waiver with respect to any non-compliance. In addition, the credit facility restricts the ability to complete large acquisitions without Regions Bank’s consent. We may not be able to obtain Regions Bank’s consent to a transaction in a timely manner, or at all, which could impede our ability to consummate an acquisition that our board of directors deems to be in our best interest. The term loan under the credit facility is due and payable on August 31, 2013, and the revolving loan, which provides for up to $5.0 million of loans to fund working capital, general corporate purposes and specified acquisitions, expires on August 31, 2010. Failure to secure acquisition financing would prevent us from executing our acquisition strategy and therefore limit our ability to grow. A significant portion of our cash is held in accounts with balances that exceed the amounts insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) or the Securities Investors Protection Company (“SIPC”). As a result of certain provisions in our credit facility and our receipt of the net proceeds of our public offering in December 2009, we currently maintain significant cash balances in deposit and investment accounts. At December 31, 2009, approximately $21.9 million of our cash balances exceeded the current FDIC or SIPC insurance limits. We are exposed to credit risk on our cash deposits in excess of such insurance limits. Due to the critical nature of medical transcription to our customers’ operations, potential customers may be reluctant to outsource or change service providers as a result of the cost and potential for disruption in services, which may inhibit our ability to attract new customers. The up-front costs involved in changing medical transcription service providers or converting from an in-house medical transcription department to an outsourced provider may be significant. Potential customers may prefer to remain with their current service provider or keep their medical transcription in-house rather than incur these costs or risk a disruption in services as a result of changing service providers. Also, as the maintenance of accurate medical records is a critical element of a healthcare provider’s ability to deliver quality care to its patients and to receive proper and timely reimbursement for the services it renders, potential customers may be reluctant to outsource such an important function. Purchase accounting treatment of acquisitions or impairment of acquired intangible assets could decrease net income in the future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. We account for acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, the market value of our common stock or other form of consideration issued in connection with the acquisition as the cost of acquiring the company or business is recorded. That cost then is allocated to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible assets, such as acquired technology, acquired trade names and acquired customer relationships, based on their respective fair values. Beginning in 2008, we expensed and we intend in the future to expense direct transaction costs as incurred. Intangible assets generally will be amortized over a five to ten-year period, which might make future acquisitions dilutive to earnings. Changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration could have a material impact on results of operations in the period the change is recognized. Goodwill and certain intangible assets with indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but are subject to at least an annual impairment analysis, which may result in an impairment charge if the carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. Factors which could trigger an impairment of such assets include the following: • significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future results of operations; • significant changes in the manner of or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business; 14 Table of Contents • significant negative industry or economic trends; • significant decline in our common stock price for a sustained period; and • a decline in our market capitalization below net book value. Future adverse changes in these or other unforeseeable factors could result in an impairment charge that would impact the results of operations and financial position in the reporting period identified. We may not be able to recruit and hire a sufficient number of new or replacement medical language specialists to sustain or grow the current level of revenue. We cannot provide transcription services to customers within contracted delivery standards unless we have access to an adequate supply of qualified medical language specialists. Medical language specialists are in short supply. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of medical language specialists to meet demand. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the ability to undertake additional business or to complete projects in a timely manner, which could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. The inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could hinder our ability to maintain technology platforms and limit our ability to provide services to customers. We are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical and managerial personnel, especially highly skilled technical, implementation and production management personnel who assist in the development, implementation and production management of the medical transcription services we provide. The market for such individuals is competitive. The medical transcription industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain current personnel, or will be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could hinder our ability to maintain technology platforms and limit our ability to provide services to customers. The loss of key personnel could affect business continuity and result in a loss of significant customer relationships and institutional knowledge. Our success depends in part on the performance of executive officers and key employees. Executive officers do not have employment agreements, nor do we maintain key person life insurance on the lives of any executive officers or key employees. The loss of the services of any executive officer or other key employee could affect business continuity and result in a loss of significant customer relationships and institutional knowledge. Failure to adapt to rapid technological changes could result in a loss of market share. Our ability to remain competitive in the medical transcription industry is based on our ability to utilize technology in the services provided to customers. Accordingly, we have a substantial ongoing commitment to research and development. In this regard, we are currently investing in the integration of voice recognition and natural language processing technologies to yield faster turnaround times, better workflow management and increased productivity, all of which are essential to remain competitive. If we are unable to identify and implement technological changes in a timely and cost-effective manner, a portion of our market share could be lost, which would adversely affect results of operations. If we must write off the cost of research and development expenses, our operating results for the period could be adversely affected. Additionally, competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially the same as, or superior to, ours and that do not infringe our rights. In these cases, we would be unable to prevent competitors from utilizing, selling or licensing these similar or superior technologies. 15 Table of Contents Our reliance on key third-party software could affect our ability to operate competitively. We have invested heavily in fully integrating speech recognition technology into the BeyondTXT platform. We license the speech recognition engine, natural language processor and various editing tools from MultiModal Technologies, Inc., a leader in the industry, under a September 2006 agreement that renews annually at our sole option through September 2010, with the last such option period ending August 31, 2011, and thereafter if mutually agreed by both parties. The inability to maintain the relationship with Multimodal or find a suitable replacement for the technology at favorable prices or at all would adversely affect our ability to operate competitively and meet the workload demands of our customer base. Our operations depend on access to reliable voice and data networks and dictation capture systems. Any failure of these networks or systems, even for a short time, could harm our business. The majority of our customers depend on the availability of our BeyondTXT platform, data networks and dictation capture systems to process voice and data files 24 hours per day, seven days per week. If voice and data networks or dictation capture systems are unavailable, the ability to transcribe documents for customers is severely limited. We are heavily dependent on third parties such as telecommunications providers and dictation system vendors. Although there is redundancy across these providers and systems, any failure of these networks or systems, even for a short time, could delay our ability to provide transcription services to our customers. Because the timely delivery of transcription services is vital to customers, any such delay could harm our business. Failure of our disaster recovery site could adversely affect our ability to provide continuing data processing services. We expect to be able to use our disaster recovery site to rapidly transfer the processing of data from our main site to the disaster recovery site. We cannot assure you that the disaster recovery site will be effective in the event of a disaster. If our main computer center becomes unavailable and our disaster recovery site fails, we would be forced to either contract for the services of another network provider at costs significantly in excess of current expenses or reconstruct our data processing center, which could take a significant amount of time. The failure of our disaster recovery site could adversely affect our ability to provide continuing operations and meet contractual obligations. We operate in a competitive market, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. The medical transcription services market is competitive and highly fragmented, with several thousand local, regional and national companies competing in the United States alone. In addition, the medical transcription industry in the United States faces competition from overseas competitors. While we attempt to compete on the basis of fast, predictable turnaround times and consistently high accuracy and document quality, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively, if at all, against competitors. These competitive forces could result in loss of market share, lower margins and increased technology investments. The use of offshore medical dictation subcontracting firms exposes us to operational and financial risks not inherent in the United States. In the fourth quarter of 2009, approximately 16% of our transcription volume was subcontracted to offshore providers in India. As we increase reliance on these Indian offshore providers, we become increasingly exposed to operational and financial risks not inherent in our United States operations. These risks include political, economic and social instability, unexpected changes in the regulatory environment, currency fluctuations (although our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars) and the possibility that offshore providers will be acquired by a competitor and discontinue their relationship with us. 16 Table of Contents Our medical transcription services may be subject to legal claims for failure to comply with laws governing the confidentiality of medical records. Healthcare professionals who use our medical transcription services deliver private health information, or PHI, about their patients including information that constitutes a record under applicable law that we may store. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, the common law and contractual obligations govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including: • state and federal privacy and confidentiality laws; • contracts with customers and partners; • state laws regulating healthcare professionals; • Medicare and Medicaid laws; and • HIPAA/HITECH. HIPAA establishes elements including, but not limited to, federal privacy and security standards for the use and protection of PHI. We have partners and customers who are covered entities under HIPAA, and HIPAA requires us to use and disclose PHI in a manner consistent with our arrangements with them. Historically, only covered entities were directly subject to potential civil and criminal liability under the HIPAA Privacy and Security Standards. However, HITECH, which was enacted into law on February 17, 2009, enhances and strengthens the HIPAA Privacy and Security Standards and makes certain provisions applicable to “business associates” of covered entities. HIPAA provisions applicable to business associates now directly apply to us, and we will be directly subject to criminal and civil penalties. In addition, HITECH created security breach notification requirements. The direct applicability of the new HIPAA Privacy and Security provisions requires us to incur additional costs and may restrict our business operations. In addition, these provisions may engender additional regulations and guidance issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services and will be subject to interpretation by various courts and other governmental authorities, thus creating potentially complex compliance issues for us and our customers. Although we have systems and policies in place for safeguarding PHI from unauthorized disclosure, these systems and policies may not preclude claims against us for alleged violations of applicable requirements. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to liability claims. Any liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. States and foreign jurisdictions in which we or our customers operate have adopted, or may adopt, privacy standards that are similar to or more stringent than the federal HIPAA Privacy and Security Standards. This may lead to different restrictions for handling PHI. As a result, our customers may demand, and we may be required to provide, services and information technology solutions that are adaptable to reflect different and changing regulatory requirements which could increase our labor and development costs. In the future, federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authorities or industry bodies may impose new data security standards or additional restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. New regulatory requirements may require substantial operational and systems changes, employee education and resources, there is no guarantee that we will be able to implement these changes adequately or prior to their compliance date, and we cannot predict the potential impact that these future rules may have on our business. Furthermore, the demand for our services may decrease significantly if we are not able to develop and offer services and technology that can address the regulatory challenges and compliance obligations facing us and our customers. Proposed legislation and possible negative publicity may impede our ability to utilize offshore service capabilities. Certain state laws that have recently been enacted and bills introduced in recent sessions of the U.S. Congress have sought to restrict the transmission of personally identifiable information regarding a U.S. resident to any foreign affiliate, subcontractor or unaffiliated third party without adequate privacy protections or without 17 Table of Contents providing notice of the transmission and an opportunity to opt out. Some of the proposals would require patient consent. If enacted, these proposed laws would impose liability on healthcare businesses arising from the improper sharing or other misuse of personally identifiable information. Some proposals would create a private civil cause of action that would allow an injured party to recover damages sustained as a result of a violation of the new law. A number of states have also considered, or are in the process of considering, prohibitions or limitations on the disclosure of medical or other information to individuals or entities located outside of the United States. Any such restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide offshore transcription services. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, current stockholders and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business prospects and the trading price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting as of each year-end. Management has concluded that as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, internal controls over financial reporting were effective. As of December 31, 2007, however, management concluded that, as a result of a material weakness related to accounting for income taxes, we did not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and did not provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting or the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Management may identify control deficiencies in the future that, individually or in the aggregate, could constitute one or more additional material weaknesses. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, stockholder and investor confidence in our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted, which could have a negative impact on the trading prices of our common stock and could lead to litigation claims and regulatory proceedings against us. The defense of any such claims or proceedings may cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation or regulatory proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could result in significant legal and other expenses. Such events could harm the business, negatively affect our ability to raise capital and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success and competitive position depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights protecting our services. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our BeyondTXT platform or to obtain, license, sell or otherwise use information that management regards as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we may not be able to protect technology from unauthorized use. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Although the source code for our proprietary software is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work, litigation may be necessary to enforce intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, can be very expensive and can divert management efforts, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property, and we could be exposed to significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products and services if such claims are successful. We may be subject to claims of infringement or contributing to the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technologies. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for these intellectual property rights. 18 Table of Contents However, we may not be able to obtain licenses from some or all claimants, the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable, and we may not be able to resolve disputes without litigation. Any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of management and key personnel from business operations. In the event of a claim of intellectual property infringement, we may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Third parties claiming intellectual property infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block the ability to develop technologies and sell services. If we do not prevail in any such disputes, we may be unable to use certain technologies considered to be proprietary, and results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Our technology may have defects, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to customers and claims against us. Complex software products such as those used by us may contain errors or defects. Defects in the solutions that are developed for our use could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about our services. Customers who are not satisfied with our transcription services due to technological errors or defects may also bring claims against us for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm our reputation, business, financial results and competitive position. Changes to the overall economic environment could negatively impact results of operations or access to capital. Although healthcare generally is considered to be a recession-resistant industry, negative changes to the overall economic environment can impact us in a number of ways, including the following: • reduced demand for healthcare services could result in reduced demand for transcription services; • deterioration in the financial condition of customers could result in our having greater write-offs and reduced future revenue; • reduced access to capital or deterioration in available terms could result in a decreased ability to fund our growth through acquisitions or increased costs related to funding such growth; • deterioration in the financial condition of our partners could result in service or product interruptions which could negatively impact our business; and • changes in tax regulations could negatively affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure, Organization and Common Stock Our directors and executive officers beneficially own a significant amount of our common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence on matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 17% of our common stock as of February 28, 2010. Consequently, directors and executive officers as a group will continue to be able to exert significant influence over the election of directors, the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and our business, which may have the effect of delaying or precluding a third party from acquiring control of us. The market price for our common stock is extremely volatile which could cause a loss of a significant portion of investment. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to certain factors, such as variations in anticipated or actual results of operations, the operating results of other companies in the medical transcription industry, changes in conditions affecting the economy generally, general trends in the 19 Table of Contents healthcare industry, sales of common stock by insiders, as well as other factors unrelated to operating results. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent one from being able to sell shares at or above the price paid for shares. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions, which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, as well as other organizational documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include: • authorized “blank check” preferred stock; • limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of directors and for stockholder proposals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 