ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those listed below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could also materially affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and an investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. We reported a net loss of $1.2 million in 2005, net income of $1.5 million for 2006 and net income of $11.5 million in 2007. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $13.0 million as of December 31, 2007. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain profitability during 2008 and beyond. If we are unable to maintain profitability, the market price for our common stock may decline, perhaps substantially. Accordingly, an investment in our common stock is speculative in nature and involves a high degree of risk. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and we expect our revenue and operating results to continue to fluctuate in the future. Given this fluctuation, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily an accurate indicator of our future performance. As a result, our results of operations may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future. If this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include the following: • slowing sales to new and existing customers; • loss of customers; • volume, timing and fulfillment of customer contracts; • inability to control expenses; • acquisitions of or mergers with existing businesses; • introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • seasonality in purchasing patterns of our customers • reduction in the prices of our products in response to competition or market conditions; • timing of significant marketing and sales promotions; • impairment charges against goodwill and other intangible assets; • write-offs of accounts receivable that are not collectible; • increased expenditures incurred pursuing acquisitions of businesses and/or new product or market opportunities; • general economic trends as they affect sales; • higher than anticipated costs related to fixed-price contracts with our customers; • disruptions in, or increases in costs related to, the services provided by our offshore partners; and • failure of the telecommunications and technology infrastructure related to receiving, processing and/or distributing our work. 10 Table of Contents Due to the foregoing factors, among others, our revenue and operating results may differ from our forecasts. Our expense levels are based in significant part on our expectations of future revenue, and we may not be able to reduce our expenses quickly to respond to a shortfall in projected revenue. Therefore, our failure to meet revenue expectations would seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon our ability to maintain our financing arrangements. On December 30, 2005, we entered into a four year, $5.6 million credit facility with Healthcare Finance Group (HFG). The facility includes a $3.6 million accounts receivable-based revolving promissory note and up to $2.0 million of term loans to fund acquisitions. The credit facility requires that the Company abide by certain financial and other covenants. If we are unable to abide by the covenants, we may be in default of the credit facility and may not be able to make acquisitions that could be helpful to our business, and we may not have enough resources to repay the current debt. In addition, our credit facility restricts our ability to complete large acquisitions without HFG’s consent. We may not be able to obtain HFG’s consent to a transaction in a timely manner, or at all, which could impede our ability to consummate an acquisition that our Board of Directors deems to be in our best interest. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which could dilute our existing stockholders and could involve substantial integration risks. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other businesses and technologies. In connection with past acquisitions, we issued a substantial number of shares of our common stock as transaction consideration and also incurred significant debt to finance the cash consideration. We may continue to issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute our existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of the acquisition. We may also incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions, which, if available at all, may place additional restrictions on our ability to operate our business. Furthermore, our prior acquisitions required substantial integration and management efforts. Acquisitions of this nature involve a number of risks, including: • difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, including different and complex accounting and financial reporting systems; • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • potential difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of our finance and accounting systems; • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and technology; • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; • management of geographically remote offices; • impairment of relationships with partners and customers; • customers delaying purchases of our projects pending resolution of product integration between our existing and our newly acquired products; • entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited experience; and • potential loss of customers or key employees of the acquired company. As a result of these and other risks, we may not realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could seriously harm our business. 11 Table of Contents Our ability to execute our acquisition strategy is dependent upon our ability to secure financing. Our existing credit facility, which expires on December 30, 2009, with HFG provides for up to $2.0 million of term loans to fund acquisitions. We have engaged Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (Morgan Keegan) to help us locate potential acquisition candidates and financing for these acquisitions through debt, proceeds from equity offerings, issuance of shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination thereof. Failure to secure acquisition financing would prevent us from executing our acquisition strategy and limit our ability to grow. Our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon our ability to retain customers. During 2006 and 2007, we experienced high customer retention levels. Customer retention is largely dependent on providing quality service at competitive prices. Customer retention may also be impacted by events outside of our control such as changes in customer ownership, management or financial condition and competitors’ sales efforts. We cannot guarantee that our service levels and cost of our services will be perceived by our customers as adding value sufficient to retain the business. If we experience a lower than expected rate of customer retention, the resulting loss of business could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon our ability to sell transcription services to new customers. Our market is highly competitive. Generally, customers change providers only when the service provided does not meet their quality standards and/or the cost of services is greater than competitor’s prices. We cannot guarantee we will be able to sell our services to new customers to grow our revenue. If we are not able to sell our services to new customers successfully, we may not be able to grow profitable operations. Failure to grow revenue would adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Purchase accounting treatment of our acquisitions or impairment of our acquired intangible assets could decrease our net income in the future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we have accounted for our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, we record the market value of our common stock or other form of consideration issued in connection with the acquisition and the amount of direct transaction costs as the cost of acquiring the company or business. We allocate that cost to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible assets such as acquired technology, acquired trade names and acquired customer relationships based on their respective fair values. Intangible assets generally will be amortized over a five to ten-year period, which might make future acquisitions dilutive to earnings. Goodwill and certain intangible assets with indefinite lives, are not subject to amortization but are subject to at least an annual impairment analysis, which may result in an impairment charge if the carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. As of December 31, 2007, we had identified gross goodwill and other intangible assets of $5.5 million and accumulated amortization of $0.4 million. Factors which could trigger an impairment of such assets include the following: • significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; • significant changes in the manner of or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; • significant negative industry or economic trends; • significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; and • a decline in our market capitalization below net book value. 12 Table of Contents Future adverse changes in these or other unforeseeable factors could result in an impairment charge that would impact our results of operations and financial position in the reporting period identified. We may not be able to recruit and hire a sufficient number of new or replacement medical language specialists to sustain or grow our current level of revenue. We cannot provide transcription services to our customers within contracted delivery standards without an adequate supply of qualified medical language specialists. Medical language specialists are in short supply. We rely upon in-house recruiters to hire a sufficient number of qualified medical language specialists to meet our current and projected needs. We attempt to attract and retain medical language specialists by offering competitive pay and benefits and the opportunity to work from home utilizing our Internet-based system. We are transitioning a significant portion of our business from transcribing (typing) to editing, which we believe will allow us to increase the productivity of our existing personnel and attract a new supply of medical language specialists. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of medical language specialists to meet our needs. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to undertake additional business or to complete projects in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could hinder our ability to maintain our technology platforms and limit our ability to provide services to our customers. We are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical and managerial personnel, especially highly skilled technical, implementation and production management personnel who assist in the development, implementation and production management of the medical transcription service that we provide to our customers. The market for such individuals is competitive. Our industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could hinder our ability to maintain our technology platforms and limit our ability to provide services to our customers. The loss of our key personnel could affect business continuity and result in a loss of significant customer relationships and institutional knowledge. Our future success depends in part on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, nor do we maintain key person life insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers or key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could affect business continuity and result in a loss of significant customer relationships and institutional knowledge. Failure to adapt to rapid technological changes could result in a loss of market share. Our ability to remain competitive in the medical transcription industry is based on our ability to utilize technology in the services that we provide to our customers. Accordingly, we have a substantial ongoing commitment to research and development. In this regard, we are currently investing in voice recognition and natural language processing technologies to yield faster turnaround times, better workflow management and increased productivity, all of which are essential for us to remain competitive. If we are unable to identify and implement technological changes in a timely manner, we may lose a portion of our market share, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially the same or superior to ours and that do not infringe our rights. In these cases, we would be unable to prevent our competitors from selling or licensing these similar or superior technologies. 13 Table of Contents Our reliance on key third-party software could affect our ability to operate competitively. Portions of the BeyondTXT technology were provided to us by Multimodal Technologies, Inc. under an agreement originally entered into on September 28, 2004. The original agreement was replaced by a new agreement, commencing September 1, 2006, that provides for a one-year, non-exclusive license that is renewable for up to four successive one-year periods at our option and additional successive one-year periods if mutually agreed to by both parties. Our inability to maintain the relationship with Multimodal Technologies, Inc. or find a suitable replacement for the technology at favorable prices or at all would adversely affect our ability to operate competitively and to meet the workload demands of our existing customer base. Our operations depend on access to reliable voice and data networks. Any failure of one or more of these networks, even for a short time, could harm our business. The majority of our customers depend on our BeyondTXT platform, data networks and dictation capture systems being able to process voice and data files 24 hours per day, seven days per week. If our voice and data networks or dictation capture systems are unavailable, our ability to transcribe documents for customers is severely limited. We are heavily dependent on third parties such as telecommunications providers and dictation system vendors. Any failure of more than one of these networks or systems, even for a short time, could delay our ability to provide transcription services to our customers. Because the timely delivery of transcription services is vital to our customers, any such delay could harm our business. The lack of a disaster recovery site could adversely affect our ability to provide continuing data processing services. In the case of a natural disaster or other disaster involving our main computer center which is hosted at a co-location facility in Atlanta, Georgia, we would have no ability to rapidly transfer the processing of data to another site. We would be forced to either contract for the services of another network provider at costs significantly in excess of our current expenses or reconstruct our data processing center which could take a significant amount of time. The lack of a disaster recovery site could adversely affect our ability to provide continuing operations and meet our contractual obligations. We operate in a highly competitive market and can make no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The medical transcription services market is highly fragmented and competitive, with several thousand local, regional and national companies competing in the United States alone. In addition, the medical transcription industry in the United States has experienced price competition from overseas competitors. While we attempt to compete on the basis of fast, predictable turnaround times and consistently high accuracy and document quality, all offered at a reasonable price, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively, if at all, against our competitors. These competitive forces could result in loss of market share, lower margins and/or increased technology investments. The use of offshore medical dictation subcontracting firms exposes us to operational and financial risks not inherent in the United States. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 15% of our transcription volume was subcontracted to offshore providers. As we increase our reliance on these offshore providers, we are exposed to operational and financial risks not inherent in our United States operations. These risks include political, economic and social instability, unexpected changes in the regulatory environment, currency fluctuations and the possibility that our offshore providers will be acquired by a competitor and discontinue their relationship with us. 14 Table of Contents Our medical transcription services may be subject to legal claims for failure to comply with laws governing the confidentiality of medical records. Healthcare professionals who use our medical transcription services deliver to us health information about their patients including information that constitutes a record under applicable law that we may store on our computer systems. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, the common law and contractual obligations govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifable health information, including: • state and federal privacy and confidentiality laws; • our contracts with customers and partners; • state laws regulating healthcare professionals; • Medicaid laws; and • the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and related rules proposed by the Health Care Financing Administration. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 establishes elements including, but not limited to, federal privacy and security standards for the use and protection of protected health information. Any failure by us or by our personnel or partners to comply with applicable requirements may result in a material liability to us. Although we have systems and policies in place for safeguarding protected health information from unauthorized disclosure, these sytems and policies may not preclude claims agianst us for alleged violations of applicable requirements. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to liability claims which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Technology Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property will adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success and competitive position depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights protecting our services. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our BeyondTXT platform or to obtain, license, sell or otherwise use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we may not be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Although the source code for our proprietary software is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, can be very expensive and can divert management efforts. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could be exposed to significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products if such claims are successful. We may be subject to claims that we or our customers may be infringing or contributing to the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technologies. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for these intellectual 15 Table of Contents property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses from some or all claimants, the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us, and we may not be able to resolve disputes without litigation. Any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. In the event of a claim of intellectual property infringement, we may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Third parties claiming intellectual property infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop our technologies and sell our services. If we do not prevail in any such disputes, we may be unable to use certain of our technologies we consider to be proprietary, and our operating results, financial position and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Our technology may have defects, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to our customers and claims against us. Complex software products such as ours may contain errors or defects. Defects in the solutions that we develop for our use could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about us or our services. Customers who are not satisfied with our transcription services due to technological errors or defects may also bring claims against us for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm our reputation, financial results and competitive position. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure, Organization and Common Stock Our directors and executive officers own a significant amount of our common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence on matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors and executive officers collectively own approximately 26% of our outstanding common stock as of March 10, 2008. Consequently, our directors and executive officers as a group will continue to be able to exert significant influence over the election of our directors, the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and our business, which may have the effect of delaying or precluding a third party from acquiring control of us. The market price for our common stock is extremely volatile which could cause you to lose a significant portion of your investment. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to certain factors, such as variations in our anticipated or actual results of operations, the operating results of other companies in the medical transcription industry, changes in conditions affecting the economy generally, general trends in the healthcare industry, sales of common stock by our insiders, as well as other factors unrelated to our operating results. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of NASDAQ, are resulting in increased general and administrative expenses for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies which could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public 16 Table of Contents disclosure. As a result, we have and expect to continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards are not successful, our business may be harmed. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions, which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, as well as other organizational documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorized “blank check” preferred stock; • limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of directors and for stockholder proposals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 