ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain of the matters we discuss in this Report on Form 10-K may constitute forward-looking statements. You can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "estimates," or "anticipates" or similar expressions which concern our strategy, plans or intentions. All statements we make relating to estimated and projected earnings, margins, costs, expenditures, cash flows, growth rates and financial results are forward-looking statements. In addition, we, through our senior management, from time to time make forward-looking public statements concerning our expected future operations and performance and other developments. All of these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may change at any time, and, therefore, our actual results may differ materially from those we expected. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and, of course, it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Some of the factors that we believe could affect our results include: •our high degree of leverage; •general economic and market conditions; •the condition of the media industry; •the integration of acquired businesses, the performance of acquired businesses, and the prospects for future acquisitions; 22 •the effect of war, terrorism, natural disasters or other catastrophic events; •the effect of disruptions to our systems and infrastructure; •the ability to retain and attract customers and key personnel; •risks relating to the foreign countries where we transact business; •a material deterioration in the foreign exchange rates with the U.S. dollar; and •a material weakness in our internal controls. We assume no obligation to update any written or oral forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf, as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Investment in our securities is subject to a number of risks. The factors described in this paragraph and other factors that may affect our business or future financial results, as and when applicable, are discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and other factors may affect forward-looking statements, including those contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or made by us elsewhere. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also materially and adversely affect our business and operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties develops into actual events, this could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or in our industry, and prevent us from meeting our debt obligations. As a result of our acquisition on March 2, 2007, we are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. At June 30, 2008, our total indebtedness was approximately $2.1 billion. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: •making it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt obligations; •requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and business opportunities; •restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions, debt service requirements under our outstanding debt and our senior subordinated notes due 2017 and general corporate or other purposes; •limiting our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and future business opportunities and changing market conditions; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged; 23 •exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could increase our interest payment obligations and which could have an adverse effect on us; •exposing us to the risk of being unable to effectively repatriate foreign cash to service our indebtedness due to local country restrictions or added tax cost; •increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; and •materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to service our indebtedness. Our subsidiaries and we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Our subsidiaries and we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture relating to our senior subordinated notes due 2017, including up to $200.0 million of incremental term loans. Although the agreements governing our debt instruments contain restrictions regarding our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and we could incur substantial indebtedness in compliance with these restrictions. If we add new indebtedness to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face, including those described in this document, could intensify. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes due 2017 contain covenants that may limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness; •issue preferred stock; •create liens; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; •sell certain assets, including common stock of our subsidiaries; •pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make certain other restricted payments; •make certain types of investments, loans, guarantees or acquisitions; •enter into transactions with our affiliates; •agree to payment restrictions affecting our subsidiaries; and • make capital expenditures. Our ability to generate the funds required to service our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends, in large part, upon our ability to generate cash from our operations and to manage our working capital. This can be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, 24 regulatory and other factors, and we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. To the extent that our operating cash flow is insufficient to meet our current debt obligations, and to the extent that we are unable to access the capital markets on terms acceptable to us, we may, among other things, decrease our business expenditures and/or increase our indebtedness under our existing credit facilities or through additional financings. In order to obtain additional financing, we may be required to refinance our existing credit facilities. Our failure to obtain any necessary refinancing or additional financing on terms and conditions that are comparably favorable or acceptable to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we also may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or forgoing, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. We cannot assure you that any such actions, if necessary, could be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A decline in our operating results or available cash could cause us to experience difficulties in complying with covenants contained in our financing agreements, which could result in our bankruptcy or liquidation. If we were to sustain a decline in our operating results or available cash, we could experience difficulties in complying with the covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes or our senior secured credit facilities. In addition, under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to achieve specified financial and operating results and to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these or other covenants in our senior subordinated notes or senior secured credit facilities could result in a default under either of these agreements and by reason of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, our senior secured credit facilities, our senior subordinated notes and any other indebtedness may then become immediately due and payable. Upon such a default, our creditors could declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could terminate all commitments to extend further credit, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we were unable to repay amounts due under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior secured credit agreement. If the lenders under the senior secured credit agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, as well as our unsecured indebtedness. We could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit agreement to avoid an event of default. We may be unable to obtain any such waiver which could result in our default under our senior secured credit agreement, and the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 25 Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to the risk of higher interest rates, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, are at variable rates of interest, and, therefore, expose us to the risk of increased interest rates. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even if our outstanding indebtedness remained the same, thereby causing our net income to decrease. Initially, the applicable margin with respect to revolving loans under our senior secured credit facility is an annual percentage equal to (1) 1.25% for base rate loans and (2) 2.25% for Eurocurrency rate loans. The applicable margin with respect to term loans under our senior secured credit facility is an annual percentage equal to (1) 1.00% for base rate loans and (2) 2.00% for Eurocurrency rate loans. In addition, the interest rates under our senior secured credit facilities are based in part on our leverage ratio. Applicable margins with respect to revolving loans will be subject to reduction by up to 75 basis points based on our consolidated leverage ratio for base rate and Eurocurrency rate loans. In April 2007, we entered into interest rate swaps with a notional value of $750 million, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility. In the future, we may enter into additional interest rate swaps. Each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $1.4 million change in our annual interest expense on our term loans. Similarly, assuming all revolving loans are fully drawn, each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $0.8 million change in annual interest expense on our revolving credit facility. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to anticipate, respond to, influence or adapt to trends in what the public finds appealing in our industry, our business will be adversely affected. We operate in highly competitive markets that are subject to rapid change, including changes in customer preferences. Our continued success depends on our ability to provide creative, useful and attractive ideas, information, concepts, trade publishing, music, entertainment, educational and software products and services, which appeal to a large number of consumers. In order to accomplish this, we must be able to respond quickly and effectively to changes in consumer tastes for ideas, information, concepts and products. The strength of our brand name and our business units depends in part on our ability to influence these tastes. We cannot be sure that our new ideas and content will have the appeal and garner the acceptance that they have in the past, or that we will be able to respond quickly to changes in the tastes of consumers. There are substantial uncertainties associated with our efforts to develop successful new products and services for our customers, as well as to adapt our print materials and music and video products to new technologies, including the Internet and digitization. In addition, we cannot be sure that our existing ideas and content will continue to appeal to the public. We operate in highly competitive industries and must design and price our products properly and competitively and launch new products to attract new and younger customers to augment and replenish our maturing customer base while maintaining the quality of existing products. We operate in highly competitive industries both in the United States and in our foreign markets. Our magazines, books, educational materials and related products compete with other mass media and many other types of leisure-time activities. In addition, each of our products faces significant competition within its particular field of product offerings. Some of our competitors have more prominent brand names, are more established in our industries in terms of larger market shares, and have greater financial and other resources than we do in some markets. In addition, other companies may enter our markets in the future. We compete on the basis of the following, among other things: •the variety, quality and attractiveness of our products and services; 26 •the pricing of our products and services; •the manner in which we market and promote our products and services; and •the effectiveness of the distribution of our products and services and our customer service. Numerous well-established and smaller entrepreneurial companies produce, market and sell products that compete with the products that our businesses offer. Competition for advertising dollars in magazine operations is primarily based on advertising rates as well as editorial and aesthetic quality, the desirability of the magazine's demographic, reader response to advertisers' products and services and the effectiveness of the advertising sales staff. Our magazines compete with other magazines for subscribers and with all media, including television, radio, newspapers and the Internet, for advertising. Our books and home entertainment products and Books Are Fun businesses compete with companies selling similar products at retail outlets, through direct and display marketing and on the Internet. Our success in attracting and retaining new consumers to augment and replenish our customer base depends in large part on our ability to: •identify customer trends and preferences; •develop new products across our business lines; •acquire and effectively manage the inventory of new products in our display marketing businesses in response to those trends and preferences; and •expand into new distribution channels, such as retail and Internet channels. The launch of new products could increase our expenses, such as paper and printing expenses, as well as distribution and editorial expenses. If we fail to launch a broadly appealing mix of new products and channels, we may not be able to attract new customers and therefore may not be able to recoup the expenses associated with the launching of such products. In addition, should our new products fail to appeal to our existing customer base, it is possible that our existing customers will seek product offerings from our competitors, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, certain of our new products typically do not earn a profit when they are first introduced and require a period of investment thereafter. We invest significant resources to develop and market our new initiatives, but we cannot predict whether they will become profitable during the period we have projected, or at all. If we do not compete effectively in our markets, if customers and advertising sales do not increase as we expect, or if our advertising sales or customer base declines, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our future performance depends in large part upon our management team's ability to execute our strategy to position us for the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our operational and strategic initiatives that are intended to position us for future growth or that the products we design will be accepted or adopted in the time periods assumed. We also make no assurance that investments in these initiatives will recoup their costs and/or be profitable in the future. Failure to implement this strategy may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 27 Our failure to meet the challenges associated with maintaining circulation levels in a cost-efficient manner could adversely affect us. Circulation is a significant source of our revenues, representing about 76% of total U.S. fiscal 2008 revenues for Reader's Digest and our special interest magazines, including those magazine which historically have had limited advertising revenues. Circulation revenues for our print products are affected by: •competition from other publications and alternative forms of media and entertainment, including network, cable and satellite television, the Internet and radio; •declining consumer spending on discretionary items like magazines; •our ability to efficiently retain and acquire subscribers via the mail, as acquisition and postage costs increase; •a declining number of regular magazine buyers; •renewal rates; and •the aging demographics of the customer base for certain of our magazines. Sales of our magazines through subscriptions and at the newsstand may decline. As publishers compete for subscribers, subscription prices could decrease and marketing expenditures may increase. If we fail to maintain satisfactory circulation levels at satisfactory subscription rates, our business may be materially and adversely affected, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to achieve a proper balance between circulation rate base and advertising revenues. We must balance our circulation rate base goals, in particular those for the U.S. Reader's Digest magazine, with our advertising revenue objectives. This balancing is a continuous effort that varies by product and requires both effective management of the circulation rate base and the acquisition of new subscribers through cost-effective marketing methods. Because magazine subscriptions are of relatively short duration, maintaining or increasing a circulation rate base requires significant promotional expense. Historically, we have relied primarily on direct mail for our promotional efforts. Higher postage costs, including the recent increases in the United States, adversely affect our ability to retain and acquire customers. Many of our competitors rely more heavily on advertising revenues than on circulation revenues. Accordingly, it may be more cost-effective for those companies to offer heavily discounted subscription prices in order to maintain circulation levels that permit them to generate more advertising revenues. Because we rely more heavily on circulation revenues, our ability to utilize this strategy has been limited. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain and acquire a sufficient number of magazine subscribers in an economically efficient manner. Failure to do so could require further reductions of our circulation rate base, which could negatively affect our advertising revenues and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A decline in advertising revenues could adversely affect our profitability. Advertising is an important source of magazine revenues. In fiscal 2008, total magazine advertising revenues constituted approximately 7% of our total revenues. A reduction in demand for advertising could result from: •a general decline in economic conditions; •a decline in the circulation of our magazines; •a decline in popularity of our editorial content; 28 •a change in the demographic makeup of the population where our magazines are sold; •the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based media, (e.g., newspapers, radio and television broadcasters, cable television, direct mail and electronic media); and •a decline in the amount spent on advertising in general or in particular industries such as the automotive or pharmaceutical industries. In addition, as the Internet continues to grow as a global medium for information, communication and commerce, advertisers are increasingly shifting advertising dollars from offline media to online media. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract the same or a growing number of advertisers, which may materially and adversely affect our advertising revenues and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to efficiently manage our direct marketing initiatives or to protect the integrity of our customer databases could negatively affect our business. We use various direct marketing strategies to market our products, including direct mailings, catalogs, online marketing and telemarketing. In each case, we rely on our customer list, which is a database containing information about our current and prospective customers. We use this database to develop and implement our direct marketing campaigns. Managing the frequency of our direct marketing campaigns and delivering appropriately tailored products in such campaigns is crucial to maintaining and increasing our customer base and achieving adequate results from our direct marketing efforts. We also face the risk of unauthorized access to our database or the corruption of our database as a result of technology failure or otherwise. Enhancing and refreshing the database, maintaining the ability to utilize the information available from the database, and properly utilizing the available information are vital to the success of our business, and our failure to do so could lead to decreased sales, and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any failure by us to manage our growing operations or to successfully integrate acquisitions and other significant transactions could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may in the future engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, and joint ventures, and may enter into agreements relating to such transactions that will enhance our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for, and successfully complete, transactions as well as effectively integrate any such acquired companies into our operations or transition services to outsourced vendors. If we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, or such transactions do not result in anticipated synergies, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be unable to sustain our historical growth rates, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Acquisition risk Acquisitions involve numerous challenges, risks and difficulties, including: •difficulties in the integration of operations, technologies, products, systems and personnel of the acquired company; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs; •loss of key contracts with vendors and/or contractors or renegotiation of existing contracts on less favorable terms; 29 •difficulties in attracting and retaining key personnel; •negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes, job eliminations and reassignments; •the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses; •possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies; •loss of customers and failure to maintain important business relationships; •unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing, sales and administration methods; •unanticipated costs of terminating or relocating facilities and operations; •difficulty in determinations related to accounting policies, including those that require a high degree of judgment or complex estimation processes, including valuation and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and income tax matters; •unanticipated expenses related to such integration; and •the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. Even if we identify suitable acquisition targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions or obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions on terms favorable to us, or at all. To the extent we complete an acquisition, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from it because of operational factors or difficulties in integrating the acquisitions with our existing businesses. For all of the above reasons, we may not be able to successfully implement our acquisition strategy. Furthermore, in the event of an acquisition or investment, we may issue stock that would dilute stock ownership, incur debt that would restrict our cash flow, assume liabilities, incur large and immediate write-offs, incur unanticipated costs, divert management's attention from our existing business, experience risks associated with entering new markets, or lose key employees from the acquired entities. A prolonged diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of any business that we may acquire could prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of an acquisition and could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Internal growth and expansion risk Additionally, we are likely to incur additional costs if we develop new products or enter new markets where we do not currently operate, which may limit our ability to expand to, or further expand in, those areas. Our rate of expansion into new geographic areas may also be limited by: •our inability to raise sufficient capital; •competition, which could increase the costs of attracting and maintaining our customers; •the cost of implementation and on-going administration of newly developed products and services; •our inability to achieve sufficient scale of operations to cover the administration and marketing costs associated with entering new markets, and •demographics and population density. Our ability to manage our growth and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our success in addressing these demands and risks. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 30 We may not be able to obtain the third-party products that we sell at favorable prices. Our gross margins in our Books Are Fun, books and home entertainment, and other businesses are highly dependent on the costs to obtain the books, gifts and magazines that they sell. Although these products have been available to us on competitive terms in the past, we may not have access to these products at comparable prices in the future. Failure to continue to have access to products at competitive prices could adversely affect our operating margins in these businesses. Our future new products and marketing initiatives, including channel diversification, may not be successful, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends, in part, on the steady flow of new products and new marketing initiatives (such as new offers) to stimulate continued marketplace demand. Our business also depends on reducing our reliance on direct marketing, and diversifying into alternative distribution channels. We license certain of our products from third parties. The acquisition of the rights to market specific products or to use specific product names can involve a significant financial commitment. Such commitments typically take the form of license fees, prepaid royalties, and future minimum royalty and advertising payments. We rely on our licensors to provide access to content at prices that enable us to achieve adequate gross margins. We do not have long-term or exclusive relationships with all sources of content, and obtaining these licenses is dependent upon relationships with licensors that may change in the future. An inability to license content at competitive prices could materially adversely affect our ability to create new products and harm our business prospects and results of operations. While our strategy is to develop products that will contribute positively to earnings, there is no guarantee that all or any of our efforts will be successful. Sales of new products may not meet expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant portion of our Direct Holdings' revenue is derived from sales of products marketed under the Time Life trademark and tradename, which are licensed from Time Warner Inc. and Time Inc. The Time Life license agreement will expire in 2013 with an automatic renewal to 2023 subject to implementation at the time of renewal of a transition plan under which we must convert to a new mark that makes changes to the design of the name and mark for the Time Life business, including noticeably different or varied letter font or typestyle and noticeably different colors. Although we primarily focus on the direct marketing of our Direct Holdings products, we also offer products through a retail presence in large music and video retail outlets. We believe that consumer awareness of the Time Life brand is an important factor in these retail sales. If we are unable to develop and sell products under one or more new and equally effective brand names when the Time Life license expires, or if the value of the existing trademarks is diminished in the interim, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not realize our anticipated cost savings from our significant cost savings initiatives; any failure to manage costs could hamper profitability. The level of our expenses impacts our profitability. While we proactively attempt to manage such expenses effectively, increases in the cost of sales and marketing, staff-related expenses, investment in new products, acquisitions, and implementation of regulatory requirements, among others, may occur from time to time. We have benefited from annual cost savings from operating as a private company, including through the implementation of headcount reductions and the absence of certain other expenses. Additionally, we have been working with a leading supply chain consulting firm to analyze our infrastructure and to identify additional cost reduction opportunities within our supply chain and maintenance, repair and operations functions. However, estimates of cost savings are inherently uncertain, and we may not be able to achieve these cost savings within the period we have projected, or at all. Our ability to successfully realize cost savings and the timing of any realization may be affected 31 by factors such as the need to ensure continuity in our operations, contracts, regulations and/or statutes governing employee-employer relationships, our ability to renegotiate supply contracts or find alternative suppliers and other factors. Implementing additional supply chain and maintenance, repair and operations cost savings is also expected to require one-time costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contain our expenses. Our estimates of the expenses necessary to achieve the cost savings we have identified may not prove accurate, and any increase in such expenses may affect our ability to achieve our anticipated cost savings within the period we have projected, or at all. This may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in postage and paper and other operating costs could negatively affect our results. Paper and postage represent significant components of our total cost to produce, distribute, and market our products. We use the local country postal service for distribution of substantially all of our magazines and many of our marketing materials. Historically, we also have relied on direct mail for a significant portion of our customer acquisition activities. As such, the continued rise in postal rates has increased our costs. In addition, in those product lines where the customer pays shipping directly, higher postal rates or other delivery charges increase the total cost of our products to our customers, which may have a negative effect on sales. We expect to incur postage and delivery service costs of approximately $410 million in fiscal 2009. Postal rates are dependent on the operating efficiency of the various postal services and on legislative mandates imposed upon those postal service organizations. Although we work with others in the industry and through trade organizations to encourage the postal service organizations to implement efficiencies that will limit rate increases, we cannot predict with certainty the magnitude of future price changes in postage. Higher postal rates or other delivery charges usually increase the total cost to our customers, which may have a negative impact on sales. Further, we may be unable to pass such increases on to our customers. Paper is the principal raw material used in our business for printed products and promotional materials. We expect to incur paper costs of approximately $210 million in fiscal 2009. Paper is a commodity and its price has been subject to significant volatility. Historically, we have been able to realize favorable paper pricing through volume discounts and multi-year contracts; however, all of our paper supply contracts provide for price adjustments based on prevailing market prices. The price of paper may fluctuate significantly in the future, and changes in the market supply of or demand for paper could affect delivery times and prices. We may need to find alternative sources for paper from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will continue to have access to paper in the necessary amounts or at reasonable prices or that any increases in the cost of paper will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict with certainty the magnitude of future price changes in paper, and we may not be able to pass such increases on to our customers. Our inability to absorb the impact of increases in postage and paper costs or any strategic determination not to pass on all or a portion of these increases to customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We also have other significant operating costs, and unanticipated increases in these costs could adversely affect our operating margins. Our business is seasonal, and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect our results. Our operating results are varied and are expected to continue to vary from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonal patterns. The sales of certain of our products in our School & Educational Services segment are significantly affected by the school year, as sales in August through December are typically the strongest, as products are shipped in connection with the start of the school year. Seasonal and quarterly fluctuation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. 32 If we fail to maintain our relationships with our authors, illustrators, salespeople, and creative talent, as well as to develop relationships with new creative talent, our business could be adversely affected. Our business, in particular the trade publishing, media and technology-based portions of our business, is highly dependent on maintaining strong relationships with the authors, illustrators and other creative talent responsible for the products and services that are sold to our customers. Any overall weakening of these relationships, or the failure to develop successful new relationships, could have an adverse impact on our business and financial performance. We also have relationships with independent salespeople and educational consultants who acquire and provide marketing and customer service functions for some of our customers, particularly in our School & Educational Services segment. These independent salespeople and educational consultants receive compensation for introducing customers to our products. The failure to maintain relationships with these independent salespeople and educational consultants would result in a loss of our revenues, which could adversely affect our business. Our School & Educational Services segment has not performed well in recent years, and there is no assurance that our turnaround strategy will be successful. The revenues and operating profit generated by our School & Educational Services segment for the last few years have been declining. This decline has been principally driven by Books Are Fun and QSP. The declining results were associated with the competitive pressures in the marketplace, the costs and issues associated with recruiting and retaining sales force members, merchandising efforts, as well as the general economic climate. On August 22, 2008, we sold QSP, Quality Service Programs, Inc., and their affiliated subsidiaries in the United States and Canada to subsidiaries of Time Inc. for a purchase price of $110 million, subject to certain closing balance sheet adjustments. Although we have devised strategies and have taken certain steps in an effort to improve the results of our Books Are Fun business, we cannot assure you that our strategies will be successful, and a continued decline in this segment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a portion of our business in this segment is affected significantly by changes in purchasing patterns or trends in, as well as the underlying strength of, the educational, trade, entertainment and software markets. Many of our customers in these sectors purchase our products with monies received from sources of governmental funding, including federal, state and local governments. Thus, our business may be adversely affected by budgetary restraints and other reductions in educational funding at the federal or state level, as well as new legislative or regulatory actions. Our business also could be adversely affected by changes in the procurement process related to the expenditure of government funds, to which we may be unable to adapt successfully. We are subject to government regulation; compliance with laws and regulations is complex and expensive, and any violation of the laws and regulations applicable to us could reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow and otherwise adversely affect our operating results. The marketing and sale of our products are subject to various laws, regulations and policies administered by U.S. federal, state and local and foreign governments in markets in which we operate our businesses. Several laws and regulations adopted by the Federal government have created additional administrative and compliance requirements on us. The cost of compliance may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, if we do not comply adequately, we may be faced with civil, criminal and administrative penalties. Changes in these laws, regulations and policies, or in their interpretation or in enforcement priorities or activity, could increase our costs and limit the manner in which we market our products and conduct our other business operations. We collect information from our customers in the various markets in which we operate and we utilize that information principally for marketing and promotional purposes. Our collection, transfer 33 and use of this information are limited by privacy and data protection laws and regulations in those jurisdictions, including the National Do Not Call Registry operated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 and the European Data Protection Directive. Our compliance with these laws and regulations increases our operating costs, and additional laws and regulations in these areas may further increase our operating costs and adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. We rely on sweepstakes as an important component of our direct marketing efforts. Legislative and regulatory developments and our agreements with state attorneys general in the United States have significantly reduced the effectiveness of sweepstakes as a marketing technique. The Deceptive Mail Prevention and Enforcement Act, enacted in 1999, mandates specific disclosures, their placement and prominence. The Multi-State Attorneys General Agreement that we signed in 2001 restricts certain promotion techniques and the use of promotional devices and requires specific disclosure language. As a result, we have increasingly tested other direct marketing techniques in an effort to diversify our overall marketing strategy in our direct marketing-reliant businesses and to attract and retain new customers. We cannot assure you that marketing techniques other than sweepstakes will be as effective as sweepstakes were. In our single-sales books business, we have been able to effectively bring in new customers with promotions other than sweepstakes. These names, however, currently have a lower value to us than sweepstakes-generated names. We have had limited success in using promotions, other than sweepstakes, targeting our series or music customers. If we fail to effectively utilize alternative marketing techniques, our business may be materially and adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if additional significant legislative or regulatory restrictions on direct-marketing techniques develop in our markets, we will be forced to revise our marketing practices in those markets. We cannot assure you that alternative practices would yield similar results, and the failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our television direct marketing programs also are significantly affected by government regulation of television advertising, particularly those regulations adopted by the Federal Communications Commission (and comparable foreign regulators). These regulations impose restrictions on, among other things, the content and format of our DRTV programs. If we are required to remove or alter the format or content of our television or telemarketing programs, our business could be harmed. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions and other penalties and additional restrictions on our collection, transfer or use of personal data. These developments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in governmental regulation, interpretation or legislative reform could increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability. Laws and regulations, including in the areas of consumer affairs, publishing, advertising and finance (including tax), are subject to change and differing interpretations. Changes in the political climate or in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could adversely affect our business by, among other things: •increasing our administrative, compliance and other costs; •forcing us to undergo a corporate restructuring; •limiting our ability to engage in inter-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; •affecting our ability to continue to serve our customers and to attract new customers; •forcing us to alter or restructure our relationships with vendors and contractors; 34 •increasing compliance efforts or costs; •restricting our ability to market our products; or •requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. While it is not possible to predict when and whether fundamental policy or interpretive changes would occur, these could include changes that could fundamentally change the dynamics of our industry or the costs associated with our operations. Changes in public policy could materially affect our profitability, our ability to retain or grow business, or in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition. There can be no assurance that legislative or regulatory change or interpretive differences will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We face additional risks associated with significant non-U.S. operations, and we continue to expand into foreign markets. We currently do business in 79 countries. In recent years, we have entered into new countries, including China, and we expect to continue to seek to expand our business internationally. Our international operations and international expansion plans involve risks that may not exist when doing business in the United States, including: •limitations on our resources with which to manage growth in new markets; •difficulties in maintaining the proper balance between a profitable pace of growth and a measure of control over the expansion of our operations that will enable us to maintain the quality of our customer lists; •increased risk of piracy and limits on our ability to enforce intellectual property rights in some countries; •change in tariffs, significant unexpected duties or taxes or other adverse tax consequences; •economic slowdown or downturn in foreign markets; •transportation and supply chain disruptions and increased expenses as a result of epidemics, terrorist activity, acts of war or hostility, increased security and less-developed infrastructure; •political instability and civil unrest; •increased energy costs, strikes and other labor-related supply chain disruptions, poor postal service including disruptions to service from postal strikes; •differences in regulatory requirements, including privacy regulation, database protection and limitations on direct marketing techniques (such as sweepstakes), and exposure to local economic conditions; •unexpected unfavorable legislative or regulatory developments and inconsistent government policies; and •international currency fluctuations or sudden currency revaluations. Further, our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations. For example, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure by us to ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. 35 If we do not effectively manage the risks associated with our international operations and sales, our expansion opportunities could be limited, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Because we operate, and sell our products and services, in foreign countries, changes in currency exchange rates, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. We operate globally through operations in various locations around the world. In fiscal 2008, we generated 51% of our revenues in markets outside of the United States. The functional currency for most of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenues and expenses in foreign countries from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using weighted average exchange rates. Accordingly, we could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. Given our inability to predict the degree of exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot estimate the effect these fluctuations may have upon future reported results or our overall financial condition, but they could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our business could be adversely affected by the political and economic risks attendant to conducting business in foreign countries. Our business may be affected by issues that affect consumer spending. Most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. We believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. This makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles and trends in advertising placements. Certain economic conditions such as U.S. or international general economic downturns, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, gasoline and other energy prices or declining consumer confidence could reduce consumer spending. Reduced consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses. A reduction or shift in domestic or international consumer spending could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any significant increases in energy costs could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our suppliers or distributors that could adversely affect our operating margins and financial results. We also derive a portion of our revenues from the sale of advertising in our publications. Our advertising revenues are susceptible to fluctuations in economic cycles. Advertising weakness can come from any segment of the economy. For example, pharmaceutical companies recently have come under pressure, which has negatively affected advertising sales in our magazines and websites. Changes in capital markets could adversely affect our access to capital and negatively impact our business. Our results could be adversely affected by a reduction in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets or an inability to access our $300 million revolving credit facility. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance as well as impact certain issuers' willingness or ability to fund our revolving credit facility. In addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the types of credit-sensitive products being offered, and/or a sustained period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on us. Our results could also be adversely affected because of public statements or actions by market 36 participants, government officials and others who may be advocates of increased regulation, regulatory scrutiny or litigation. The inability of insurance companies to pay our claims could adversely affect our financial results and damage our reputation. Disruptions in financial markets, exposure to subprime mortgage securities and adverse rating actions by rating agencies could adversely affect the financial stability of certain insurance companies, including American International Group, Inc. (AIG), that provide insurance coverage to us and our subsidiaries. As a result, the ability of the insurance companies to pay our potential claims could be significantly impaired. We may not be able to obtain adequate replacement insurance coverage from other insurance companies at reasonable cost or at all. In the event of any subsequent property, casualty, liability or other loss, we could be exposed to significant financial loss and/or damage to our reputation. We have placed emphasis on building our Internet community. Failure to fulfill this strategy could adversely affect our business prospects. The competitive environment in which we operate demands, and our future growth strategies incorporate, the development of our Internet and digital businesses. We believe there is a trend towards offering supplemental materials to our published products and educational materials, as well as the opportunity to renew subscriptions, increasingly in an electronic format and, in particular, over the Internet. We believe that this trend will accelerate as younger, technically savvy consumers make up a greater portion of our consumer base. In order for our Internet business to succeed, we must, among other things: •significantly invest time and resources in our Internet business; •significantly increase our online traffic and revenue; •attract and retain a base of frequent visitors to our websites; •expand the content and products we offer over our websites; •attract and retain talent for critical positions; •sell advertising in significant markets; •maintain and form relationships with strategic partners to attract more consumers; •continue to develop and upgrade our technologies; and •bring new product features to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving these and other necessary objectives or that our Internet business will be profitable or successful. Our failure to adapt to new technology or delivery methods, or our choice of one technological innovation over another, may have an adverse impact on our ability to compete for new customers or to meet demands of our existing customers. If we are not successful in achieving these objectives, our business, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. The occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could disrupt the marketing and promotion and delivery of our products and services, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. The success of our businesses is largely contingent on the availability of direct access to consumers. For example, the School & Educational Services business requires direct personal access to consumers through offices and schools for display marketing and access to schools and youth groups for sales of supplemental education products. In addition, a significant portion of our business relies on postal services for delivery of products and for promotional marketing activity. As a result, any event that disrupts or limits our direct access to consumers or disrupts our ability to rely on postal services or other delivery services could materially and adversely affect our business. 37 We are exposed to various risks arising out of natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and tornadoes, and pandemic health events such as avian influenza, as well as man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions. The threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, and a natural or man-made disaster could trigger an economic downturn in the areas directly or indirectly affected by the disaster. These consequences could, among other things, result in a decline in business from those areas. Disasters also could disrupt public and private infrastructure, including communications and financial services, which could disrupt our normal business operations. In addition, increased energy costs, strikes and other labor-related supply chain disruptions, poor postal service or disruptions to service from postal strikes could adversely affect our business. Because our business experiences high seasonal sales concentrations, the risk of a disruption from factors beyond our control is particularly acute during our peak sales periods. A natural or man-made disaster also could disrupt the operations of our counterparties or result in increased prices for the products and services they provide to us. Our business may suffer if we are not able to retain or attract sufficient qualified personnel, including key managerial, creative, editorial, marketing and sales personnel globally. We operate in a business where there is intense competition for experienced personnel in all of our global markets. We depend on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, develop and retain qualified and effective personnel. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued contribution of our senior management and other key employees. A loss of a significant number of skilled managerial, creative and editorial personnel could have a negative effect on the quality of our products. Similarly, a loss of a significant number of experienced and effective sales personnel would likely result in fewer sales of our products and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, develop and retain qualified and effective personnel depends on numerous factors, including factors that we cannot control, such as competition and conditions in the local employment markets in which we operate. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key employees could harm our business and adversely affect our ability to compete in our markets. Increases in sales taxes or other taxes could reduce our revenues. In some markets, both domestic and international, some or all of our products are subject to local and national sales taxes and other taxes such as value-added taxes. Taxes, like delivery costs, are generally stated separately on bills, where permitted by applicable law. Increases in taxes may have a negative effect on the sales of our products. Higher taxes also may reduce profit margins on these products if we do not pass on the increase to our customers. In jurisdictions where applicable tax must be included in the purchase price, we may be unable to fully recover from customers the amount of any tax increase or new tax. All of this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, our brand or our reputation. Our intellectual property, including our copyrights, trademarks, service marks, patents, and trade secrets, and all of our other intellectual property rights, are important assets. We are susceptible to unauthorized parties imitating and/or reproducing our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. Although we rely on copyright, patent, trademark and other laws in the United States and other jurisdictions to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to successfully protect them. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Therefore, it may be more difficult to protect our 38 intellectual property rights in some foreign jurisdictions, including new markets into which we want to expand our business. We may not be able to successfully preserve these rights in the future, and our significant proprietary rights could be challenged, circumvented, infringed or invalidated. Imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of such intellectual property rights. In addition, our business activities have in the past been alleged, and could in the future be alleged or determined to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of another party. We could incur significant costs to protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against infringement and other claims by third parties. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation relating to our intellectual property. Litigation diverts the time and resources of management, regardless of the merits of the claim. Whether or not we are successful, we could incur significant costs by engaging in litigation, and our results of operations, financial condition and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. Our brand and our reputation are also important assets, as our ability to attract and retain customers is in part dependent upon the external perceptions of our company, the quality of our products and services, and our integrity. Damage to our reputation or negative publicity or perceptions about us, including by association with adverse developments in the industries in which we conduct our businesses, could cause a loss of consumer confidence in our company, as well as unfavorable regulatory scrutiny. Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost. Some of our foreign pension plans are under funded. In addition, even with respect to plans that are currently over funded, our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change to the expected rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in subsequent fiscal years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost of subsequent fiscal years. Significant variations in pension performance could produce volatility in our reported results, and significant under funding in our pension plans could necessitate higher company contributions to those plans. We outsource certain aspects of our business to third party vendors that may fail to reduce costs and may subject us to risks, including disruptions in our business and increased costs. We continuously seek to make our cost structure more efficient and to focus on our core strengths. This includes contracting with other companies to perform functions or operations that, in the past, we have performed ourselves. We currently rely on partners or third party service providers for the provision of certain business process functions, including print procurement and customer service, and may outsource additional business functions in the future. As a result, we are no longer able to exercise direct control over some aspects of the outsourced operations and processes, which could adversely affect our business. Although we believe that outsourcing will result in lower costs and increased efficiencies, this may not be the case. Because these third parties may not be as responsive to our needs as we might be ourselves, outsourcing increases the risk of disruption to our operations. If we 39 are unable to effectively utilize, or integrate with, our outsource providers, or if these partners or third party service providers experience business difficulties or are unable to provide business services as anticipated, we may need to seek alternative service providers or resume providing these business processes internally, which could be costly and time consuming and have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We also rely on hardware and software systems provided by third-party vendors to perform vital functions and processes in our operations. Our inability to operate and integrate these technologies properly may negatively impact our operating and may harm our business and operating results. In addition, the failure of a vendor to continue to provide services or upgrades to such technology may negatively impact our business and operating results. A material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse affect on us. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The Sponsors control us and may have conflicts of interests with us in the future. Investment funds associated with or designated by the Sponsors indirectly own, through their ownership in our parent company, RDA Holding Co., a substantial portion of our capital stock. As a result, the Sponsors have control over all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, and our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction, regardless of whether outstanding creditors believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. For example, the Sponsors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of indebtedness that is secured or that is senior to our outstanding indebtedness, or to pay dividends or sell assets, which may impair our ability to repay outstanding indebtedness. In addition, subject to applicable law, the Sponsors will be able to elect all the members of our board of directors and to control actions to be taken by us, including amendments to our organizational documents and approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers. Additionally, our Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our Sponsors continue to indirectly own, or affiliates of Ripplewood hold proxies with respect to, a significant amount of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, our Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 40 