Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our revenues may fluctuate widely based upon changes in demand for our customers' products. Demand for our products is dependent upon and derived from the level of demand for the machinery, parts and equipment produced by our customers, which are principally manufacturers and fabricators of machinery, parts and equipment for highly specialized applications. Historically, certain of the markets in which we compete have experienced unpredictable, wide demand fluctuations. Because of the comparatively high level of fixed costs associated with our manufacturing processes, significant declines in those markets have had a disproportionately adverse impact on our operating results. Since we became an independent company in 1987, we have, in several instances, experienced substantial year-to-year declines in net revenues, primarily as a result of decreases in demand in the industries to which our products are sold. In 1992, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2009 and 2010, our net revenues, when compared to the immediately preceding year, declined by approximately 24.9%, 15.4%, 10.3%, 21.2%, 31.1% and 13.0%, respectively. We may experience similar fluctuations in our net revenues in the future. Additionally, demand is likely to continue to be subject to substantial year-to-year fluctuations as a consequence of industry cyclicality, as well as other factors such as global economic uncertainty, and such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Profitability in the high-performance alloy industry is highly sensitive to changes in sales volumes. The high-performance alloy industry is characterized by high capital investment and high fixed costs. The cost of raw materials is the primary variable cost in the manufacture of our high-performance alloys and, in fiscal 2011, represented approximately 53.0% of our total cost of sales. Other manufacturing costs, such as labor, energy, maintenance and supplies, often thought of as variable, have a significant fixed element. Profitability is, therefore, very sensitive to changes in volume, and relatively small changes in volume can result in significant variations in earnings. Our ability to effectively utilize our manufacturing assets depends greatly upon continuing demand in our end-markets, successfully increasing our market share and continued acceptance of our new products into the marketplace. Any failure to effectively utilize our manufacturing assets may negatively impact our gross margin and net income. We are subject to risks associated with global economic and political uncertainties We are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States and abroad that may affect the general economic climate and our performance and the demand of our customers. The continuing turmoil in the global economy has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. In addition to the impact that the global financial crisis has already had, we may face significant challenges if conditions in the global economy do not improve or worsen. In addition, we are subject to various domestic and international risks and uncertainties, including changing social conditions and uncertainties relating to the current and future political climate. Changes in governmental policies (particularly those that would limit or reduce defense spending) could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and may reduce our customers' demand for our products and/or depress pricing of those products used in the defense industry or which have other military applications, resulting in a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, revenues and cash flows. Furthermore, any actual armed hostilities, and any future terrorist attacks in the U.S. or abroad, could also have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy, global financial markets and our business. The effects may include, among other things, a decrease in demand in the aerospace industry due to reduced air travel, as well as reduced demand in the other industries we serve. Depending upon the severity, scope and duration of these effects, the impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be material. 18 Table of Contents We operate in cyclical markets. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the highly cyclical aerospace, power generation and chemical processing markets. Our sales to the aerospace industry constituted 37.5% of our total sales in fiscal 2011. Our land-based gas turbine and chemical processing sales constituted 18.1% and 27.6%, respectively, of our total sales in fiscal 2011. The commercial aerospace industry is historically driven by demand from commercial airlines for new aircraft. The U.S. and international commercial aviation industries continue to face challenges arising from the global economic climate, competitive pressures and fuel costs. Demand for commercial aircraft is influenced by industry profitability, trends in airline passenger traffic, the state of U.S. and world economies, the ability of aircraft purchasers to obtain required financing and numerous other factors, including the effects of terrorism and health and safety concerns. The military aerospace cycle is highly dependent on U.S. and foreign government funding; however, it is also driven by the effects of terrorism, a changing global political environment, U.S. foreign policy, the retirement of older aircraft and technological improvements to new engines that increase reliability. Accordingly, the timing, duration and severity of cyclical upturns and downturns cannot be forecast with certainty. Downturns or reductions in demand could have a material adverse effect on our business. The land-based gas turbine market is also cyclical in nature. Demand for power generation products is global and is affected by the state of the U.S. and world economies, the availability of financing to power generation project sponsors and the political environments of numerous countries. The availability of fuels and related prices also have a large impact on demand. Reductions in demand for our products sold into the land-based gas turbine industry may have a material adverse effect on our business. We also sell products into the chemical processing industry, which is also cyclical in nature. Customer demand for our products in this market may fluctuate widely depending on U.S. and world economic conditions, the availability of financing, and the general economic strength of the end use customers in this market. Cyclical declines or sustained weakness in this market could have a material adverse effect on our business. Reductions in government expenditures could adversely affect our military aerospace business. The Budget Control Act of 2011 (the "Budget Act") that was signed into law on August 2, 2011 to reduce federal government expenditures over the next 10 years may result in reduced U.S. government funding of the military aerospace industry. The Budget Act set $900 billion in immediate cuts to discretionary government spending for 2012 through 2021. It also established a bi-partisan congressional Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (the "Super Committee") and charged it with recommending legislation by November 23, 2011, the result of which would reduce net government spending by at least $1.2 trillion over the next 10 years, in addition to the $900 billion in immediate discretionary spending reductions. In the event that the Super Committee fails to recommend legislation, Congress fails to approve that legislation by late December, 2011, or the President fails to sign the legislation into law, an automatic sequestration of discretionary appropriations would be triggered, which would make up any shortfall necessary to achieve the $1.2 trillion target. Under the Budget Act, 50% of any shortfall from the $1.2 trillion target would automatically be applied as a reduction to discretionary appropriations for national defense programs. While we are unable to predict the outcome of the Budget Act deliberations, actions of the Super Committee or the impact of any resulting reductions in defense appropriations, reductions in U.S. defense spending, particularly with respect to the military aerospace industry, could negatively affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Aerospace demand is primarily dependent on two manufacturers. A significant portion of our aerospace products are sold to fabricators and are ultimately used in the production of new commercial aircraft. There are only two primary manufacturers of large commercial 19 Table of Contents aircraft in the world, The Boeing Company and Airbus. A significant portion of our aerospace sales are dependent on the number of new aircraft built by these two manufacturers, which is in turn dependent on a number of factors over which we have little or no control. Those factors include demand for new aircraft from around the globe and factors that impact manufacturing capabilities, such as the availability of raw materials and manufactured components, U.S. and world economic conditions, changes in the regulatory environment and labor relations between the aircraft manufacturers and their work forces. A significant interruption or slow down in the number of new aircraft built by the aircraft manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are dependent on production levels at our Kokomo facility. Our principal assets are located at our primary integrated production facility in Kokomo, Indiana and at our production facilities in Arcadia, Louisiana and in Mountain Home, North Carolina. The Arcadia and Mountain Home plants rely to a significant extent upon feedstock produced at the Kokomo facility. Any production failures, shutdowns or other significant problems at the Kokomo facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain property damage insurance to provide for reconstruction of damaged equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production shutdown caused by an insured loss. Although we believe that our insurance is adequate to cover any such losses, that may not be the case. One or more significant uninsured losses at our Kokomo facility may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, from time to time we schedule planned outages on the equipment at our Kokomo facility for maintenance and upgrades. These projects are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including a variety of market, operational and labor related factors, many of which may be beyond our control. Should a planned shut-down on a significant piece of equipment last substantially longer than originally planned, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results. A default under our agreements with Titanium Metals Corporation could require us to make significant payments and could disrupt our operations. We are party to a Conversion Services Agreement and an Access and Security Agreement with TIMET that provide for the performance of certain titanium conversion services through November 2026. Events of default under the Conversion Services Agreement include (a) a change in control in which the successor does not assume the agreement, (b) a violation by the Company of certain non-compete obligations relating to the manufacture and conversion of titanium and (c) failure to meet agreed-upon delivery and quality requirements. If an event of default under the Conversion Services Agreement occurs, TIMET could require us to repay the unearned portion of the $50.0 million fee paid to us by TIMET when the agreement was signed, plus liquidated damages of $25.0 million. Our obligations to pay these amounts to TIMET are secured by a security interest in our four-high Steckel rolling mill, through which we process a substantial amount of our products. In addition, the Access and Security Agreement with TIMET includes, among other terms, an access right that would allow TIMET to use certain of our operating assets, including the four-high mill, to perform titanium conversion services in the event of our bankruptcy or the acceleration of our indebtedness. Exercise by TIMET of its rights under its security interest following a default and non-payment of the amounts provided in the Conversion Services Agreement or exercise of the access rights under the Access and Security Agreement could cause significant disruption in our Kokomo operations which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents During periods of lower demand in other alloy markets, some of our competitors may use their available capacity to produce higher volumes of high-performance alloys, which leads to increased competition in the high-performance alloy market. We have experienced increased competition since the third quarter of fiscal 2007 from competitors who produce both stainless steel and high-performance alloys. Due to continued under-utilization of capacity in the stainless steel market, we believe these competitors increased their production levels and sales activity in high-performance alloys to keep capacity in their mills as full as possible, while offering very competitive prices and delivery times. If the stainless market does not improve, continued competition from stainless steel producers could negatively impact our average selling price and reduce our gross profit margin. In addition, as a result of the competition in our markets, we have made significant price concessions to our customers from time to time, and we expect customer pressure for further price concessions to continue. Maintenance of our market share will depend, in part, on our ability to sustain a cost structure that enables us to be cost-competitive. If we are unable to adjust our costs relative to our pricing, our profitability will suffer. Our effectiveness in managing our cost structure will be a key determinant of future profitability and competitiveness. Rapid fluctuations in the price of nickel may materially adversely affect our operating results. To the extent that we are unable to adjust to rapid fluctuations in the price of nickel, there may be a negative effect on our gross profit margins. In fiscal 2011, nickel, a major component of many of our products, accounted for approximately 61% of our raw material costs, or approximately 32% of our total costs of sales. We enter into several different types of sales contracts with our customers, some of which allow us to pass on increases in nickel prices to our customers. In other cases, we price our products at the time of order, which allows us to establish prices with reference to known costs of our nickel inventory, but which does not allow us to offset an unexpected rise in the price of nickel. We may not be able to successfully offset rapid increases in the price of nickel or other raw materials in the future. In the event that raw material price increases occur that we are unable to pass on to our customers, our cash flows or results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Alternatively, as happened in fiscal 2009, our results of operations may also be negatively impacted if both customer demand and nickel prices rapidly fall at the same time. In those circumstances, we may experience higher per pound manufacturing costs due to the recognition of higher nickel costs from inventory which flows through cost of goods sold. Our business is dependent on a number of raw materials that are subject to volatility in price and availability. We use a number of raw materials in our products which are found in only a few parts of the world and are available from a limited number of suppliers. The availability and costs of these materials may be influenced by private or government cartels, changes in world politics, labor relations between the materials producers and their work force, unstable governments in exporting nations, inflation and general economic conditions and export quotas imposed by governments in nations with rare earth element supplies. The ability of key material suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements can also impact our ability to meet commitments to customers. Future shortages or price fluctuations in raw materials could result in decreased sales as well as margins, or otherwise adversely affect our business. The enactment of new or increased import duties on raw materials imported by us could also increase the costs to us of obtaining the raw materials and might adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents Failure to successfully develop, commercialize, market and sell new applications and new products could adversely affect our business. We believe that our proprietary alloys and metallurgical manufacturing expertise provide us with a competitive advantage over other high-performance alloy producers. Our ability to maintain this competitive advantage depends on our ability to continue to offer products that have equal or better performance characteristics than competing products at competitive prices. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to address the increasingly demanding needs of our customers by enhancing the properties of our existing alloys, by timely developing new applications for our existing products, and by timely developing, commercializing, marketing and selling new products. If we are not successful in these efforts, or if our new products and product enhancements do not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance, our revenues, cash flows and results of operations could be negatively affected. We are subject to risks relating to our cyber security measures. We have put in place a number of systems, processes and practices designed to protect against intentional or unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information or disruption of our operations. These include, for example, the appropriate encryption of information. Despite such efforts, we are subject to breaches of security systems which may result in unauthorized access, misappropriation, corruption or disruption of the information we are trying to protect, in which case we could suffer material harm. Access to our proprietary information regarding new alloy formulations would allow our competitors to use that information in the development of competing products. Current employees have, and former employees may have, access to a significant amount of information regarding our operations which could be disclosed to our competitors or otherwise used to harm us. In addition, our systems could be subject to sabotage by employees or third parties, which could slow or stop production or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Any misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information or disruption of our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. An interruption in energy services may cause manufacturing curtailments or shutdowns. We rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of our products. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the supply of energy resources could temporarily impair our ability to manufacture products for customers. Further, increases in energy costs, or changes in costs relative to energy costs paid by competitors, has and may continue to adversely affect our profitability. To the extent that these uncertainties cause suppliers and customers to be more cost sensitive, increased energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations, costs and other liabilities. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the environment, the storage, handling, use, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the health and safety of our employees. Under these laws and regulations, we may be held liable for all costs arising out of any release of hazardous substances on, under or from any of our current or former properties or any off-site location to which we sent or arranged to be sent wastes for disposal or treatment, and such costs may be material. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other hazardous substances that may be attributable to our products or other environmental damage. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. 22 Table of Contents Violations of these laws, regulations or permits can also result in the imposition of substantial penalties, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. We have received permits from the environmental regulatory authorities in Indiana and North Carolina to close and to provide post-closure monitoring and care for certain areas of our Kokomo and Mountain Home facilities that were used for the storage and disposal of wastes, some of which are classified as hazardous under applicable regulations. We are required to monitor groundwater and to continue post-closure maintenance of the former disposal areas at each site. As a result, we are aware of elevated levels of certain contaminants in the groundwater and additional corrective action could be required. Additionally, it is possible that we could be required to undertake other corrective action for any other solid waste management unit or other conditions existing or determined to exist at our facilities. We are unable to estimate the costs of any further corrective action, if required. However, the costs of future corrective action at these or any other current or former sites could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We may also incur liability for alleged environmental damages associated with the off-site transportation and disposal of hazardous substances. Our operations generate hazardous substances, many of which we accumulate at our facilities for subsequent transportation and disposal off-site or recycling by third parties. Generators of hazardous substances which are transported to disposal sites where environmental problems are alleged to exist are subject to liability under CERCLA and state counterparts. In addition, we may have generated hazardous substances disposed of at sites which are subject to CERCLA or equivalent state law remedial action. We have been named as a potentially responsible party at two sites. CERCLA imposes strict, joint and several liabilities for investigatory and cleanup costs upon hazardous substance generators, site owners and operators and other potentially responsible parties regardless of fault. If we are named as a potentially responsible party at other sites in the future, the costs associated with those future sites could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to comply with environmental laws, changes in any environmental law may increase our costs of compliance and liabilities arising from any past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. See "Business—Environmental Matters." Our manufacturing processes, and the manufacturing processes of many of our suppliers and customers, are energy intensive and generate carbon dioxide and other "greenhouse gases", and pending legislation or regulation of greenhouse gases, if enacted or adopted in an onerous form, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Political and scientific debates related to the impacts of emissions of greenhouse gases on the global climate are prevalent. Regulation or some form of legislation aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions is currently being considered in the United States as well as globally. As a high-performance alloy manufacturer, we will be affected, both directly and indirectly, if proposed climate change legislation, such as use of a "cap and trade" system, is enacted which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business is affected by federal rules, regulations and orders applicable to government contractors. A number of our products are manufactured and sold under U.S. government contracts or subcontracts. Consequently, we are directly and indirectly subject to various federal rules, regulations and orders applicable to government contractors. From time to time, we are also subject to government inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government programs. These inquiries and investigations are costly and consuming of internal resources. Violations of applicable 23 Table of Contents government rules and regulations could result in civil liability, in cancellation or suspension of existing contracts or in ineligibility for future contracts or subcontracts funded in whole or in part with federal funds, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be required to make additional contributions to our defined benefit pension plans as a result of adverse changes in interest rates and the capital markets. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pension benefits incorporate significant assumptions, including the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the long-term rate of return on plan assets and several assumptions relating to the employee workforce (salary increases, retirement age and mortality). We currently expect that we will be required to make future minimum contributions to our defined benefit pension plans. A decline in the value of plan investments in the future, an increase in costs or liabilities or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding could materially change the timing and amount of required pension funding. A requirement to fund any deficit created in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our ability to effectively manage and expand our business will be harmed. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees who may terminate their employment at any time. The loss of any of our senior management team could harm our business. The announcement of the loss of one of our key employees could negatively affect our stock price. Our ability to retain our skilled workforce and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We face challenges in hiring, training, managing and retaining employees in certain areas including metallurgical researchers, equipment technicians, and sales and marketing staff. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled employees, our new product and alloy development and commercialization could be delayed, and our marketing and sales efforts could be hindered, which would adversely impact our competitiveness and financial results. The risks inherent in our international operations may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from operations in international markets. As we continue to expand internationally, we will need to hire, train and retain qualified personnel for our direct sales efforts and retain distributors and train their personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory impediments may exist. Distributors, regulators or other government agencies may not continue to accept our products, services and business practices. In addition, we purchase raw materials on the international market. The sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of raw materials from international sources, subject us to the trade regulations of various jurisdictions. Compliance with such regulations is costly. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping, sales and service activities. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions any one or more of which may adversely affect our business and financial results, including: •our ability to obtain, and the costs associated with obtaining, U.S. export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; •changes in duties and tariffs, taxes, trade restrictions, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; 24 Table of Contents •burdens of complying with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; •business practices or laws favoring local companies; •fluctuations in foreign currencies; •restrictive trade policies of foreign governments; •longer payment cycles and difficulties collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; •difficulties in enforcing or defending agreements and intellectual property rights; and •foreign political or economic conditions. Any material decrease in our international revenues or inability to expand our international operations as a result of these or other factors would adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Although a collective bargaining agreement is in place for certain employees, union or labor disputes could still disrupt the manufacturing process. Our operations rely heavily on our skilled employees. Any labor shortage, disruption or stoppage caused by any deterioration in employee relations or difficulties in the renegotiation of labor contracts could reduce our operating margins and income. Approximately 58% percent of our U.S. employees are affiliated with unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, in September 2010, a majority of the 92 hourly employees at our Arcadia, Louisiana operations elected to be represented by a union and negotiations regarding a collective bargaining agreement are ongoing. Failure to negotiate new labor agreements when required could result in a work stoppage at one or more of our facilities. Although we believe that our labor relations have generally been satisfactory, it is possible that we could become subject to additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions, or that work stoppages or other labor disturbances could occur in the future, any of which could reduce our operating margins and income and place us at a disadvantage relative to non-union competitors. Product liability and product warranty risks could adversely affect our operating results. We produce many critical products for commercial and military aircraft and for land-based gas turbines. Failure of our products could give rise to substantial product liability and other damage claims. We maintain insurance addressing this risk, but there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage will be adequate or will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, we manufacture our products to strict contractually-established specifications using complex manufacturing processes. If we fail to meet the contractual requirements for a part, we may be subject to warranty costs to repair or replace the product itself and additional costs related to the investigation and inspection of non-complying products. These costs are generally not insured. Our business subjects us to risk of litigation claims, as a routine matter, and this risk increases the potential for a loss that might not be covered by insurance. Litigation claims may relate to the conduct of our business, including claims pertaining to product liability, commercial disputes, employment actions, employee benefits, compliance with domestic and federal laws and personal injury. Due to the uncertainties of litigation, we might not prevail on claims made against us in the lawsuits that we currently face and additional claims may be made against us in the future. The outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be determined adversely to us. The resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations for that period. 25 Table of Contents We depend on our IT infrastructure to support the current and future information requirements of our operations. Management relies on IT infrastructure, including hardware, network, software, people and process, to provide useful information to support assessments and conclusions about operating performance. Our inability to produce relevant or reliable measures of operating performance in an efficient, cost-effective and well-controlled fashion may have significant negative impacts on our future operations. Risks Related to Shares of Our Common Stock Our stock price is subject to fluctuations as a result of being traded on a public exchange which may not be related to our performance. The stock market has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section and others such as: •fluctuations in the market price of nickel, raw materials or energy; •market conditions in the end markets into which our customers sell their products, principally aerospace, power generation and chemical processing; •announcements of technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; •the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; •announcements by us of acquisitions, alliances, joint development efforts or corporate partnerships in the high-temperature resistant alloy and corrosion-resistant alloy markets; •market conditions in the technology, manufacturing or other growth sectors; and •rumors relating to us or our competitors. Payment of dividends will depend on our future financial condition and performance. Although our Board of Directors currently intends to continue the payment of regular quarterly cash dividends on shares of our common stock, the timing and amount of future dividends will depend on the Board's assessment of our operations, financial condition, projected liabilities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to declare dividends at the same or similar rates. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions, including those regulating the nomination of directors, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our Board of Directors, to launch takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments by the staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 26 Table of Contents 