Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our revenues may fluctuate widely based upon changes in demand for our customers' products. Demand for our products is dependent upon and derived from the level of demand for the machinery, parts and equipment produced by our customers, which are principally manufacturers and fabricators of machinery, parts and equipment for highly specialized applications. Historically, certain of the markets in which we compete have experienced unpredictable, wide demand fluctuations. Because of the comparatively high level of fixed costs associated with our manufacturing processes, significant declines in those markets have had a disproportionately adverse impact on our operating results. For example, due in part to these factors, we encountered liquidity difficulties throughout fiscal 2003 and the first half of fiscal 2004, and could not generate sufficient cash to both satisfy our debt obligations and fund our operations. These liquidity difficulties contributed to our decision to file for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on March 29, 2004. Since we became an independent company in 1987, we have, in several instances, experienced substantial year-to-year declines in net revenues, primarily as a result of decreases in demand in the industries to which our products are sold. In 1992, 1999, 2002 and 2003, our net revenues, when compared to the immediately preceding year, declined by approximately 24.9%, 15.4%, 10.3% and 21.2%, respectively. We may experience similar fluctuations in our net revenues in the future. Additionally, demand is likely to continue to be subject to substantial year-to-year fluctuations as a consequence of industry cyclicality, as well as other factors, and such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. Profitability in the high-performance alloy industry is highly sensitive to changes in sales volumes. The high-performance alloy industry is characterized by high capital investment and high fixed costs. Profitability is, therefore, very sensitive to changes in volume, and relatively small changes in volume can result in significant variations in earnings. The cost of raw materials is the primary variable cost in the manufacture of our high-performance alloys and, in fiscal 2007, represented approximately 68% of our total cost of sales. Other manufacturing costs, such as labor, energy, maintenance and supplies, often thought of as variable, have a significant fixed element. Our operations are dependent on production levels at our Kokomo facility. Our principal assets are located at our primary integrated production facility in Kokomo, Indiana and at our production facilities in Arcadia, Louisiana and in Mountain Home, North Carolina. The Arcadia and Mountain Home plants rely to a significant extent upon feedstock produced at the Kokomo facility. Any production failures, shutdowns or other significant problems at the Kokomo facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that we maintain adequate property damage insurance to provide for reconstruction of damaged equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production shutdown caused by an insured loss; however, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover such losses which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Capital expenditures are required to continue to improve operating efficiencies. Prior to fiscal 2005, we experienced periods of liquidity shortages which resulted in a lack of funds for capital improvements at the Kokomo facility. Although we believe that our facilities are generally in good operating condition, in fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007 we made progress in making significant upgrades to our equipment in order to improve operating efficiencies through increased capacity, improved quality capability and reduced operating costs. We are continuing to make these upgrades, spending $16.2 million 18 in fiscal 2007 and anticipating to spend $15.0 million in fiscal 2008, as compared to the $5.4 million we spent in fiscal 2004, $11.6 million spent in fiscal 2005 (including the Branford Wire acquisition) and the $10.7 million spent in fiscal 2006. An inability to make these upgrades could have a material adverse impact on the efficiency with which we will be able to manufacture our products and adversely affect our competitive standing within the industry. As we proceed with our capital upgrade program, we will experience some planned equipment downtime, which could affect our financial results in future periods. Although capital upgrades will allow us to produce 23.5 million pounds of high-performance alloys annually, our ability to increase net revenues and profitability depends upon our success in effectively utilizing this new capacity. We have announced that our capital upgrade program will allow us to increase sheet production capacity from 9 million pounds annually to 14 million pounds annually, increasing total high-performance alloy production capacity to 23.5 million pounds. Our ability to utilize this capacity depends greatly upon continuing demand in our end-markets, successfully increasing our market share and continued acceptance of our new products into the marketplace. Any failure to effectively utilize the increased capacity may negatively impact our net revenues, profitability and net income. During periods of lower demand in other alloy markets, some of our competitors, whose primary products are other alloys but who also produce some high-performance alloys, may use their available capacity to produce higher volumes of high-performance alloys, which leads to increased competition in the high-performance alloy market. In addition to high-performance alloys, our primary competitors also produce and sell a broad range of other alloys, including stainless steel and titanium, while we produce primarily high-performance alloys. There are significant elements of fixed costs in the operating structure of these competitors, which can only be absorbed by keeping production levels high. For that reason, if our competitors are unable to fill their production capacity with their core alloys such as stainless steel and titanium, they are likely to increase their production of high-performance alloys. This may lead to increased competition in the high-performance alloy market, creating downward pricing pressures as a result of increased product in the market and more aggressive lead times. Rapid increases in the price of nickel may materially adversely affect our operating results. To the extent that the price of nickel or other raw material cost rises rapidly, there may be a negative effect on our gross profit margins. In fiscal 2007, nickel, a major component of many of our products, accounted for approximately 63% of our raw material costs, or approximately 41% of our total costs of sales. We enter into several different types of sales contracts with our customers, some of which allow us to pass on increases in nickel prices to our customers. In other cases, we price our products at the time of order, which allows us to establish prices with reference to known costs of materials, but which does not allow us to offset an unexpected rise in the price of nickel. We may not be able to successfully offset rapid increases in the price of nickel or other raw materials in the future. In the event that raw material price increases occur that we are unable to pass on to our customers, our cash flows or results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Increases in energy costs and raw material costs may have a negative impact on our performance and financial condition. Since fiscal 2003, we have experienced rising raw material and energy costs. Nickel, cobalt and molybdenum, the primary raw materials used to manufacture our products, all have experienced significant fluctuations in price. Continued growth in China has contributed to increased demand for many of the raw materials used in our manufacturing processes, which has led to increased prices for these raw materials. The Company uses natural gas in the manufacturing process to reheat material for purposes of annealing 19 and forming. Continuing increases in raw material and energy costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows or results of operation. Failure to successfully develop, commercialize, market and sell new applications and new products could adversely affect our business. We believe that our proprietary alloys and metallurgical manufacturing expertise provide us with a competitive advantage over other high-performance alloy producers. Our ability to maintain this competitive advantage depends on our ability to continue to offer products that have equal or better performance characteristics than competing products at competitive prices. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to address the increasingly demanding needs of our customers by enhancing the properties of our existing alloys, by timely developing new applications for our existing products, and by timely developing, commercializing, marketing and selling new products. If we are not successful in these efforts, we may experience difficulties that delay or prevent the successful development, commercialization, marketing and selling of these products, or if our new products and product enhancements do not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance, our revenues, cash flows and results of operations could be negatively affected. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations, costs and other liabilities. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the environment, the storage, handling, use, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. Violations of these laws, regulations or permits can also result in the imposition of substantial penalties, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. We cannot assure you that we have been or will at all times be in complete compliance with these laws, regulations or permits. In addition, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by various regulatory authorities, who from time to time have issued notices of violations of laws, regulations and permits. For example, in the past five years, we have paid administrative fines for alleged violations of requirements relating to the handling and storage of hazardous wastes, requirements relating to the Kokomo facility's Title V Air Permit, requirements relating to the handling of polychlorinated biphenyls and record keeping and notification requirements relating to industrial waste water discharge. Although none of these violations has had a material effect on our financial condition, alone or in the aggregate, future violations may result in material fines, require additional capital expenditures, or both. In addition, we may be required in the future to comply with certain regulations pertaining to the emission of hazardous air pollutants under the Clean Air Act. However, since these regulations have not been proposed or promulgated, we cannot predict the cost, if any, associated with compliance with such regulations. Pursuant to certain environmental laws including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, if a release of hazardous substances occurs on, under or from any of our current or former properties or any off-site location to which we sent or arranged to be sent wastes for disposal or treatment, we may be held liable for all costs arising therefrom, and there can be no assurance that the amount of such liability will not be material. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other hazardous substances that may be attributable to our products or other environmental damage. We have received permits from the Indiana Department of Environmental Management, or IDEM, to close and to provide post-closure monitoring and care for certain areas at the Kokomo facility that were used for the storage and disposal of wastes, some of which are classified as hazardous under applicable 20 regulations. Closure certification was received in fiscal 1988 for the South Landfill at the Kokomo facility and post-closure monitoring and care is ongoing there. Closure certification was received in fiscal 1999 for the North Landfill at the Kokomo facility and post-closure monitoring and care are permitted and ongoing there. We have also received permits from the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources, or NCDENR, to close and provide post-closure monitoring and care for the hazardous waste lagoon at its Mountain Home, North Carolina facility. The lagoon area has been closed and is currently undergoing post-closure monitoring and care. The Company is required to monitor groundwater and to continue post-closure maintenance of the former disposal areas at each site. As a result, we are aware of elevated levels of certain contaminants in the groundwater and additional corrective action. We are is unable to estimate the costs of any further corrective action at either site, if required. Accordingly, the Company can not assure you that the costs of future corrective action, if any, will not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Additionally, it is possible that we could be required to undertake other corrective action commitments for any other solid waste management unit existing and determined to exist at our facilities. We may also incur liability for alleged environmental damages associated with the off-site transportation and disposal of hazardous substances. Our operations generate hazardous substances, much of which we accumulate at our facilities for subsequent transportation and disposal off-site or recycling by third parties. Generators of hazardous substances which are transported to disposal sites where environmental problems are alleged to exist are subject to liability under CERCLA, and state counterparts. In addition, we may have generated hazardous substances disposed of at sites which are subject to CERCLA or equivalent state law remedial action. CERCLA imposes strict, joint and several liability for investigatory and cleanup costs upon hazardous substance generators, site owners and operators and other potentially responsible parties regardless of fault. We cannot assure you that we will not be named as a potentially responsible party at sites in the future or that the costs associated with current or future additional sites would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to comply with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. See "Business—Environmental Matters." If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our ability to effectively manage and expand our business will be harmed. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees who may terminate their employment at any time. The loss of any of our senior management team could harm our business. The announcement of the loss of one of our key employees could negatively affect our stock price. Our ability to retain our skilled workforce and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We face challenges in hiring, training, managing and retaining employees in certain areas including metallurgical researchers, equipment technicians, and sales and marketing staff. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled employees, our new product and alloy development and commercialization could be delayed, and our marketing and sales efforts could be hindered, which would adversely impact our competitiveness and financial results. 21 U.S. and world economic and political conditions, including acts or threats of terrorism and/or war, could adversely affect our business. National and international political developments, instability and uncertainties could result in continued economic weakness in the United States and in international markets. These uncertainties include ongoing military activity in Afghanistan and Iraq, threatened hostilities with other countries, political unrest and instability around the world, and continuing threats of terrorist attacks. Any actual armed hostilities, and any future terrorist attacks in the United States or abroad, could also have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy, global financial markets and our business. The effects may include, among other things, a decrease in demand in the aerospace industry due to reduced air travel, as well as reduced demand in the other industries we serve. Depending upon the severity, scope and duration of these effects, the impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be material. The risks inherent in our international operations may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from operations in international markets. As we continue to expand internationally, we will need to hire, train and retain qualified personnel for our direct sales efforts and retain distributors and train their personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory impediments may exist. We cannot ensure that distributors, regulators or other government agencies will continue to accept our products, services and business practices. In addition, we purchase raw materials on the international market. The sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of raw materials from international sources, subject us to the different trade regulations of the various countries involved. Compliance with such regulations is costly. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping, sales and service activities. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions, including: •our ability to obtain, and the costs associated with obtaining, U.S. export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; •changes in duties and tariffs, taxes, trade restrictions, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; •burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; •business practices or laws favoring local companies; •fluctuations in foreign currencies; •restrictive trade policies of foreign governments; •longer payment cycles and difficulties collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; •difficulties in enforcing or defending agreements and intellectual property rights; and •foreign political or economic conditions. 22 We cannot ensure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international revenues or inability to expand our international operations would adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Although a collective bargaining agreement is in place for certain employees, union or labor disputes could still disrupt the manufacturing process. All eligible hourly employees at the Kokomo plant and the Lebanon, Indiana service and sales center (approximately 514 in the aggregate as of September 30, 2007) are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. In fiscal 2007, the collective bargaining agreement was extended until June 2010. Even though a collective bargaining agreement is in place, it is still possible that union or labor disputes could disrupt our manufacturing process. We intend to renegotiate the collective bargaining agreement in fiscal 2010 prior to the expiration of the agreement currently in place. Management believes that current relations with the union are satisfactory. We can not assure you, however, that the renegotiation of the collective bargaining agreement will not lead to a labor stoppage and negative effect on earnings. For example, there was a brief labor stoppage in connection with renegotiation of the collective bargaining agreement in fiscal 2002, although there was no such stoppage in connection with the renegotiations in fiscal 2004 or fiscal 2007. Risks Related to Shares of Our Common Stock Our stock price is subject to fluctuations as a result of being traded on a public exchange which may not be related to our performance. The stock market in general has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section and others such as: •our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies and companies deemed to be similar; •fluctuations in the market price of nickel, raw materials or energy; •market conditions in the end markets into which our customers sell their products, principally aerospace, power generation and chemical processing; •announcements of technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; •the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; •announcements by us of acquisitions, alliances, joint development efforts or corporate partnerships in the high temperature resistant alloy and corrosion resistant alloy markets; •market conditions in the technology, manufacturing or other growth sectors; and •rumors relating to us or our competitors. 23 You may not receive a return on investment through dividend payments nor upon the sale of your shares of our common stock. The terms of our current U.S. revolving credit facility restrict us from paying cash dividends, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends or making any other distributions on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Therefore, you should not expect to receive a return on your investment in shares of our common stock through the payment of cash dividends. You also may not realize a return on your investment upon selling your shares of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions, including those regulating the nomination of directors, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our Board of Directors, to launch takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our historical financial information is not comparable to our current financial information. As a result of our emergence from bankruptcy, we are operating our business with a new capital structure, and are subject to fresh start reporting requirements prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles. As required by fresh start reporting, assets and liabilities as of August 31, 2004 were recorded at fair value, with the enterprise value being determined in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy. Accordingly, our historical financial information for periods prior to August 31, 2004 is not comparable to our financial information for periods after August 31, 2004. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 