RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. To date, we have experienced significant operating losses in funding the research, development and clinical testing of our drug candidates and we expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses through at least fiscal 2007. As of September 30, 2005, our accumulated deficit was approximately $155.0 million. To achieve profitability, we would need to generate significant additional revenue with positive gross margins to offset our other operating expenses, which we expect will increase as we increase our pre-launch activities and sales and marketing efforts over the next several quarters while awaiting the FDA’s decision regarding the approval of Neurodex for the treatment of PBA. We may also increase spending on our clinical and pre-clinical programs to the extent our progress in development is favorable. Although we have recently entered into research collaborations with major pharmaceutical companies for two of our research programs, we continue to seek and to negotiate revenue-generating licenses for docosanol 10% cream, and for our other research programs for a selective cytokine inhibitor and our antibody technology. However, we may not find additional attractive arrangements, if at all, and any such arrangements may not provide adequate revenues to cover future operating expenses. Increases in expenditures may not be offset by new or adequate sources of revenues, and as a result, we may not achieve profitability. We have experienced delays in obtaining the FDA’s acceptance for filing of our new drug application for Neurodex due to requests by the Agency for additional discussions about the data. Any further delays or any 8 Table of Contents adverse decisions in the regulatory review or approval process may harm our prospects and could harm our stock price. In late August 2005, the FDA informed us that the Agency had restarted the review date for the Neurodex NDA to August 10, 2005 (from June 29, 2005) because of a submission that we had made at the request of the Agency containing supplemental data with certain pre-clinical information. The Agency has the discretion to determine whether responses to the Agency are sufficient to reset the start date for the review. At the time that we submitted the additional data, we did not know our submission would reset the review timeline for the Neurodex NDA. On September 21, 2005, the FDA informed us that there were formatting and summarization issues with our NDA, which we clarified in detail at a meeting with the Agency in October 2005. Based on commentary that we received from the FDA, we are further strengthening and enhancing our NDA before re-submitting the data, as the submission will contain data from additional patients who had completed treatment for more than 6 months in our open-label study, bringing the total number above the relevant requirements for chronic exposure. The current plan is to re-submit the expanded data, refined narratives, and re-formatted materials in January 2006. Thereafter, the Agency will have 60 days to determine whether the file is complete and assign a review timeline, namely whether it will be a standard or priority review. These filing and acceptance delays, and any subsequent delays, might extend our operating losses, which would likely increase our cash requirements over the long run. We also cannot be certain that Neurodex will ultimately be approved by the FDA for marketing or that we will be able to obtain the labeling claims desirable for the promotion of the product. Recent public announcements regarding safety problems with certain approved drugs may also affect the FDA’s policies regarding safety data for all new drug applications and may result in the FDA requiring additional safety data before approving Neurodex, and FDA may require closer surveillance after commercialization if the drug is approved. We have yet to market or sell Neurodex or any of our other potential products. We have never before marketed or sold any pharmaceutical products. In order to market Neurodex, assuming it is approved by the FDA, or market any other drug candidates, we will need to hire additional personnel with relevant pharmaceutical experience to staff our sales management and marketing group to help ensure the potential success in marketing our products. If we cannot develop the required marketing and sales expertise internally, our ability to generate revenue from product sales will likely suffer. In international markets, we may rely on collaborative partners to obtain regulatory approvals, and to market and sell our products in those markets. We have not yet entered into any collaborative arrangement with respect to marketing or selling Neurodex, with the exception of one such agreement relating to Israel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to enter into any other arrangements on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are able to enter into sales and marketing arrangements with collaborative partners, we cannot assure you that such collaborators will apply adequate resources and skills to their responsibilities, or that their marketing efforts will be successful. If we are unable to enter into favorable collaborative arrangements with respect to marketing or selling Neurodex or docosanol 10% cream or our collaborators’ efforts are not successful, our ability to generate revenue from product sales will suffer. We expect that over the next 12 to 24 months we will need to raise additional capital to fund ongoing operations. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to curtail operations. If we succeed in raising additional capital through a licensing or financing transaction, it may affect our stock price and future revenues. In order to maintain sufficient cash and investments to fund future operations and to prepare for the commercialization of Neurodex, we will need to raise additional capital over the next 12 to 24 months through various alternatives, including licensing or sales of our technologies and drug candidates, selling shares of our Class A common stock or preferred stock or through the issuance of one or more forms of senior or subordinated debt. The balance of securities available for sale under an existing shelf registration is 9 Table of Contents approximately $84.0 million. See “Management Outlook” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If we raise capital by issuing additional shares of Class A common stock at a price per share less than the then-current market price per share, the per-share value of our Class A common stock may be reduced. Further, even if we sell shares of common stock at prices equal to or higher than the then-current market price, the issuance of additional shares may depress the market price of our Class A common stock and will dilute voting rights of our other shareholders. If we raise capital through licensing or sales of one or more of our technologies or drug candidates, as we have with our RCT and MIF technologies, then we will likely need to share a significant portion of future revenues from these drug candidates with our licensees. Additionally, the development of drug candidates licensed or sold to third parties will no longer be in our control. Because license arrangements typically provide us with revenue only as the drug candidate is successfully developed and marketed, and because the development of any out-licensed drug candidates will typically be outside of our control, we may not realize a significant portion of the potential value of any such license arrangements. If we are unable to raise additional capital to fund future operations, then we may not be able to execute our commercialization plans for Neurodex and may be required to reduce operations or defer or abandon one or more of our clinical or pre-clinical research programs. Changes in board and management composition that are intended to strengthen the board and management team could adversely disrupt our operations. We have recently made significant changes to our senior management team and board of directors to add to our pharmaceutical experience, significantly enhance our scientific and clinical expertise, and provide depth in managing profitable pharmaceutical businesses. Our President and Chief Executive Officer joined the Company in September 2005 and our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing joined the Company in July 2005. Since September 2004, seven new directors have joined our board and we continue to recruit senior-level sales and marketing and regulatory personnel to add to our management team. Accordingly, we anticipate that we could experience other changes in management and infrastructure as we expand our organization, prepare for the commercialization of Neurodex and effect our transition from a research and development company to a pharmaceutical company. These changes could be disruptive, and we may experience difficulties in retaining new directors, attracting and integrating new members of the management team and in transitioning our operating activities. Our inability to attract and retain key management and scientific personnel could negatively affect our business. The industry in which we compete has a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. This type of environment creates intense competition for qualified personnel, particularly in product research and development, sales and marketing and accounting and finance. The loss of certain executive officers and other key employees could adversely affect our operations. Additionally, in order to expand the Company as planned and to effect our transition to a pharmaceutical company, we will need to hire, train, retain and motivate high quality personnel, including sales and marketing personnel for the commercialization of Neurodex. Any inability to hire qualified sales and marketing personnel would harm our commercialization plans. If we were to lose one or more of our key scientists, then we would likely lose some portion of our institutional knowledge and technical know-how, which could potentially cause a substantial delay in one or more of our development programs until adequate replacement personnel could be hired and trained. Our patents may be challenged and our pending patents may be denied. Either result would seriously jeopardize our ability to compete in the intended markets for our proposed products. We have invested in an extensive patent portfolio and we rely substantially on the protection of our intellectual property through our ownership or control of issued patents and patent applications. Such patents and patents pending cover Neurodex, docosanol 10% cream and other potential drug candidates that could come from our technologies such as reverse cholesterol transport, selective cytokine inhibitors, anti- 10 Table of Contents inflammatory compounds and antibodies. Because of the competitive nature of the biopharmaceutical industry, we cannot assure you that: • The claims in any pending patent applications will be allowed or that patents will be granted; • Competitors will not develop similar or superior technologies independently, duplicate our technologies, or design around the patented aspects of our technologies; • Our proposed technologies will not infringe other patents or rights owned by others, including licenses that may be not be available to us; • Any of our issued patents will provide us with significant competitive advantages; or • Challenges will not be instituted against the validity or enforceability of any patent that we own or, if instituted, that these challenges will not be successful. Even if we successfully preserve our intellectual property rights, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies may allege that our technology infringes on their rights. Intellectual property litigation is costly, and even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, the cost of litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Litigation is also time-consuming and would divert management’s attention and resources away from our operations and other activities. If we were to lose any litigation, in addition to any damages we would have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any required license might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Some licenses might be non-exclusive, and our competitors could have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we were to fail to obtain a required license or were unable to design around a competitor’s patent, we would be unable to sell or continue to develop some of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third parties to manufacture compounds for our drugs and drug candidates. The failure of these third parties to perform successfully could harm our business. We have utilized, and intend to continue utilizing, third parties to manufacture docosanol 10% cream, Neurodex and active pharmaceutical ingredients and supplies for our other drug candidates. We have no experience in manufacturing and do not have any manufacturing facilities. Currently, we have sole suppliers for the active pharmaceutical ingredients (“API”) for docosanol and Neurodex, and a sole manufacturer of Neurodex. Further, we do not have any long-term agreements in place with either of these suppliers. Any delays or difficulties in obtaining API or in manufacturing Neurodex could delay our clinical trials for neuropathic pain and delay the commercialization of Neurodex for PBA. Additionally, although we and GlaxoSmithKline maintain a strategic reserve of docosanol to mitigate against a short-term supply disruption, any sustained disruption of our docosanol supply could harm our operations. Because we depend on clinical research centers and other contractors for clinical testing and for certain research and development activities, the results of our clinical trials and such research activities are, to a certain extent, beyond our control. The nature of clinical trials and our business strategy of outsourcing a substantial portion of our research require that we rely on clinical research centers and other contractors to assist us with research and development, clinical testing activities and regulatory submissions to the FDA. As a result, our success depends partially on the success of these third parties in performing their responsibilities. Although we pre-qualify our contractors and we believe that they are fully capable of performing their contractual obligations, we cannot directly control the adequacy and timeliness of the resources and expertise that they apply to these activities. If our contractors do not perform their activities in an adequate or timely manner, the development and commercialization of our drug candidates could have to be abandoned or delayed. Developing new pharmaceutical products for human use involves product liability risks, for which we currently have limited insurance coverage. The testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties. We maintain product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in 11 Table of Contents the amount of $5 million per incident and $5 million in the aggregate. We expect to increase this coverage if we receive a favorable marketing approval of Neurodex by the FDA. However, product liability claims can be high in the pharmaceutical industry and our insurance may not sufficiently cover our actual liabilities. Additionally, our insurance carriers may deny, or attempt to deny, coverage in certain instances. If a suit against our business or proposed products is successful, then the lack of or insufficiency of insurance coverage could affect materially and adversely our business and financial condition. Furthermore, various distributors of pharmaceutical products require minimum product liability insurance coverage before their purchase or acceptance of products for distribution. Failure to satisfy these insurance requirements could impede our ability to achieve broad distribution of our proposed products. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stock price has historically been volatile and we expect that this volatility may continue for the foreseeable future. The market price of our Class A common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. This volatility can be attributed to many factors, including the following: • Unfavorable announcements by us regarding our Neurodex NDA submission, clinical trial results or results of operations; • Announcements of developments regarding our agreements with Novartis and AstraZeneca, including delays in meeting goals or performance milestones by us or our partners; • Comments made by securities analysts, including changes in their recommendations; • Announcements by us of financing transactions and/or future sales of equity or debt securities; • Announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • Sales of our Class A common stock by our directors, officers, or significant shareholders; • Announcements by our competitors of clinical trial results or product approvals; and • Market and economic conditions. Additionally, our stock price has been volatile as a result of periodic variations in our operating results. We expect our operating results to continue to vary from quarter-to-quarter and these variations may be significant. Variations may result from the following factors: • Performance under partnering arrangements — The recognition of the revenue under our partnering arrangements, including our license agreements for our MIF and RCT programs, will partially depend on the efforts and performance of our licensees in reaching milestones that are outside of our control, such as regulatory approval, product launch, or reaching a sales threshold. • Timing of FDA regulatory decisions — We are in the process of building a sales force for the planned commercialization of Neurodex. The timing and extent of these development expenditures will vary depending on the status and timing of the FDA’s review and decision on approval of our NDA for Neurodex. As a result, our expenses could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter while we await regulatory decisions and complete this building process. • Acquisitions/alliances — Our acquisition of certain rights relating to Neurodex in fiscal 2005 resulted in charges of approximately $7.2 million. In the future, if we acquire complementary technologies, products, or businesses, we will incur potentially significant charges in connection with such acquisitions and may have ongoing charges after the closing of any such transaction. Any such acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of these factors, our stock price may continue to be volatile and investors may be unable to sell their shares at a price equal to, or above, the price paid. 12 Table of Contents Our future financial results will be affected by changes in the accounting rules governing the recognition of stock-based compensation expense. Through fiscal 2005, we measured compensation expense for our employee stock compensation plans under the intrinsic value method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (“APB No. 25”), “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” Commencing in our 2006 fiscal year, we and other companies will be required to measure equity compensation expense using the fair value method, which will adversely affect our results of operations by reducing our income or increasing our losses and which may adversely affect our stock price. Had we accounted for our compensation expense under the fair value method of accounting prescribed by FAS 123, our equity compensation expenses would have been significantly higher, increasing by approximately $1.7 million, $1.0 million and $1.6 million, net of reported amounts prescribed under APB No. 25, during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The board of directors currently has the authority to effect a reverse stock split within a stated range until March 16, 2006. If implemented, the reverse stock split could negatively affect the price and liquidity of our Class A common stock. At our 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the shareholders granted to the board of directors the authority to implement, within its discretion and until March 16, 2006, a reverse split of our Class A common stock within a range of 1:2 to 1:5. The board of directors is seeking a similar grant of authority at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, with the authority to extend until March 31, 2007. Under this grant of authority, the board of directors may implement a reverse stock split within this range at any time. However, if the board of directors were to effect a reverse stock split, the bid price of the Class A common stock may not continue at a level in proportion to the reduction in the number of outstanding shares resulting from the reverse stock split. For example, if the board of directors decided to implement a reverse stock split at a ratio of 1-for-5, the post-split market price of our Class A common stock might not continue at a level at least five times greater than the pre-split price. Accordingly, the total market capitalization of our Class A common stock after a reverse stock split, if implemented, could be lower than the total market capitalization before the reverse stock split. Additionally, the liquidity of our Class A common stock could be affected adversely by the reduced number of shares outstanding after the reverse stock split. Risks Relating to Our Industry The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and most of our competitors are larger and have greater resources. As a result, we face significant competitive hurdles. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. We compete with hundreds of companies that develop and market products and technologies in similar areas as our research. For example, we expect that Neurodex, if approved by the FDA for marketing as a treatment of PBA, will compete against antidepressants, atypical anti-psychotic agents and other agents for the treatment of this condition. Our competitors may have specific expertise and technologies that are better than ours and many of these companies, either alone or together with their research partners, have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs and substantially greater experience than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may successfully develop competing products. If we commence commercial sales for Neurodex for PBA, we may potentially be competing with other companies and their products with respect to manufacturing efficiencies and marketing capabilities, areas where we have limited or no direct experience. Our industry is highly regulated and our failure or inability to comply with government regulations regarding the development, production, testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products may adversely affect our operations. Government authorities in the U.S., including the FDA, and other countries highly regulate the development, production, testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The clinical testing and regulatory approval process can take many years and requires the expenditure of substantial 13 Table of Contents resources. Failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, these approvals will adversely affect our business operations, including our ability to commence marketing of any of the proposed products. We may find it necessary to use a significant portion of our financial resources for research and development and the clinical trials necessary to obtain these approvals for our proposed products. We will continue to incur costs of development without any assurance that we will ever obtain regulatory approvals for any of our products under development. Additionally, we cannot predict the extent to which adverse government regulations might arise from future U.S. or foreign legislative or administrative actions. Moreover, we cannot predict with accuracy the effects of any future changes in the regulatory approval process and in the domestic health care system for which we develop our products, or the costs of on-going compliance regulations after marketing approval has been obtained. Future changes could affect adversely the time frame required for regulatory review, our financial resources, and the sales prices of our proposed products, if approved for sale. 