ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discusses certain factors that may affect the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations and should be considered in analyzing whether to make or continue an investment in our common stock. ABILITY OF THE CORPORATION TO EXECUTE ITS BUSINESS STRATEGY. The financial performance and profitability of the Corporation will depend, in large part, on its ability to favorably execute its business strategy. This execution entails risks in, among other areas, technology implementation, market segmentation, brand identification, banking operations, and capital and human resource investments. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will be successful in its business strategy. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION. The Corporation's operations are located in western Pennsylvania and are concentrated in Venango, Clarion and Butler Counties, Pennsylvania. Although management has diversified the Corporation's loan portfolio into other Pennsylvania counties, and to a very limited extent into other states, the vast majority of the Corporation's credits remain concentrated in the three primary counties. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Corporation's results depend largely upon economic and real estate market conditions in these areas. Deterioration in economic or real estate market conditions in the Corporation's primary market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Corporation's loan portfolio, the demand for its products and services, and its financial condition and results of operations. INTEREST RATES. By nature, all financial institutions are impacted by changing interest rates, due to the impact of such upon: o the demand for new loans o prepayment speeds experienced on various asset classes, particularly residential mortgage loans o credit profiles of existing borrowers o rates received on loans and securities o rates paid on deposits and borrowings. As presented previously, the Corporation is financially exposed to parallel shifts in general market interest rates, changes in the relative pricing of the term structure of general market interest rates, and relative credit spreads. Therefore, significant fluctuations in interest rates may present an adverse effect upon the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. 15 GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND MONETARY POLICY. The financial services industry is subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation. Significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeals of present laws could cause the Corporation's financial results to materially differ from past results. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions for the Corporation, and a material change in these conditions could present an adverse impact on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. COMPETITION. The financial services business in the Corporation's market areas is highly competitive, and is becoming more so due to technological advances (particularly Internet based financial services delivery), changes in the regulatory environment, and the enormous consolidation that has occurred among financial services providers. Many of the Corporation's competitors are much larger in terms of total assets and market capitalization, enjoy greater liquidity in their equity securities, have greater access to capital and funding, and offer a broader array of financial products and services. In light of this environment, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to compete effectively. The results of the Corporation may materially differ in future periods depending upon the nature or level of competition. CREDIT QUALITY. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The Corporation has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that management believes are appropriate to control this risk by assessing the likelihood of non-performance, tracking loan performance, and diversifying the credit portfolio. Such policies and procedures may not, however, prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition or results of operations. Unexpected losses may arise from a wide variety of specific or systemic factors, many of which are beyond the Corporation's ability to predict, influence, or control. THERE ARE INCREASED RISKS INVOLVED WITH COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE, CONSTRUCTION, COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND CONSUMER LENDING ACTIVITIES. Our lending activities include loans secured by existing commercial real estate. Commercial real estate lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances and the dependency on successful operation of the project for repayment. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans to small to medium business, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including home equity and second mortgage loans, automobile loans and unsecured loans. Although commercial business loans and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. OUR ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES ON LOANS MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO COVER PROBABLE LOSSES. We have established an allowance for loan losses which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. OTHER RISKS. From time to time, the Corporation details other risks with respect to its business and financial results in its filings with the SEC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 16 