Item 1A. Risk Factors The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past several years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on us and others in the financial institutions industry. For example, further deterioration in local economic conditions in our market could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. We may also face the following risks in connection with these events: · Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolios, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our business; · Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities; · The methodologies we use to establish our allowance for loan losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation; · Continued turmoil in the market, and loss of confidence in the banking system, could require the Bank to pay higher interest rates to obtain deposits to meet the needs of its depositors and borrowers, resulting in reduced margin and net interest income; and · Compliance with increased regulation of the banking industry may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, and divert management efforts. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. Deterioration of economic conditions in our geographic market area could hurt our business. We are located in western Pennsylvania and our loans are concentrated in Butler, Clarion, Crawford, Jefferson and Venango Counties, Pennsylvania. Although we have diversified our loan portfolio into other Pennsylvania counties, and to a very limited extent, into other states, the vast majority of our loans remain concentrated in the three primary counties. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic and real estate market conditions in these areas. Deterioration in economic or real estate market conditions in our primary market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, the demand for our products and services, and our financial condition and results of operations. Non-performing assets increased from $2.6 million or 0.56% of total assets at December 31, 2009 to $7.0 million or 1.45% of total assets at December 31, 2010. K-21 Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance for loan losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to offset probable incurred losses on our existing loans. However, experience in the banking industry indicates that a portion of our loans will become delinquent, that some of our loans may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid and we may experience other losses for reasons beyond our control. Despite our underwriting criteria and historical experience, we may be particularly susceptible to losses due to: (1) the geographic concentration of our loans; (2) the concentration of higher risk loans, such as commercial real estate and commercial business loans; and (3) our lack of experience with the loans acquired in the Titusville branch acquisition. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our current levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb any inherent losses in our loan portfolio, these estimates of loan losses are necessarily subjective and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. If we need to make significant and unanticipated increases in our loss allowance in the future, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected at that time. Economic conditions and increased uncertainty in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to accurately assess the allowance for credit losses. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the values of our assets and collateral for loans will be reduced if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. We estimate probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and the values of certain assets by using estimates based on difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including estimates as to the effects of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of assets. Further declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings. At December 31, 2010, our investment portfolio included eight equity securities totaling $2.5 million, primarily consisting of financial institutions. After our fourth quarter 2010 evaluation of our investment portfolio, we determined that other-than-temporary impairments existed on three equity securities. The impairment of these securities, one financial institution and two government-sponsored enterprises (GSE’s), was considered to be other-than-temporary due to continued concerns related to the financial condition and near-term prospects of the entities, economic conditions of the financial services industry and deteriorating market values. These securities were written down to their fair market values as of December 31, 2010 and resulted in impairment losses of $55,000. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to one or more of these securities or other equity securities will constitute an impairment that is other-than temporary. These factors include, but are not limited to, failure to make scheduled interest or dividend payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. Additional other-than-temporary impairment write-downs could reduce our earnings. K-22 We hold certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, our earnings and the book values of these assets would decrease. We are required to test our goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common shares, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a partial or full impairment of the value of our goodwill or core deposit intangible assets, or both. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, and other sources, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could negatively impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, adverse regulatory action against us, or our inability to attract and retain deposits. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the unstable credit markets. Our continued growth depends on our ability to meet minimum regulatory capital levels. Growth and shareholder returns may be adversely affected if sources of capital are not available to help us meet them. As we grow, we will have to maintain our regulatory capital levels at or above the required minimum levels. If earnings do not meet our current estimates, if we incur unanticipated losses or expenses, or if we grow faster than expected, we may need to obtain additional capital sooner than expected, through borrowing, additional issuances of debt or equity securities, or otherwise. If we do not have continued access to sufficient capital, we may be required to reduce our level of assets or reduce our rate of growth in order to maintain regulatory compliance. Under those circumstances net income and the rate of growth of net income may be adversely affected. Additional issuances of equity securities could have a dilutive effect on existing stockholders. We cannot predict the actual effects of EESA, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), the proposed regulatory reform measures and various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets, on us and the Bank. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading prices of our securities. We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of EESA, the ARRA and related initiatives by the federal government. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. K-23 We are subject to additional uncertainties, and potential additional regulatory or compliance burdens, as a result of our participation in the CPP. We accepted an investment of $7.5 million from the U.S. Treasury under the CPP. The Agreement we (and all other participating institutions) entered into with the U.S. Treasury, provides that the U.S. Treasury may unilaterally amend the agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after the execution in applicable federal statutes. As a result of this provision, the U.S. Treasury and Congress may impose additional requirements or restrictions on us and the Bank in respect of reporting, compliance, corporate governance, executive or employee compensation, dividend payments, stock repurchases, lending or other business practices, capital requirements or other matters. We may be required to expend additional resources in order to comply with these requirements. Such additional requirements could impair our ability to compete with institutions that are not subject to the restrictions because they did not accept an investment from the U.S. Treasury. To the extent that additional restrictions or limitations on employee compensation are imposed, such as those contained in ARRA and the regulations issued in June 2009, we may be less competitive in attracting and retaining successful incentive compensation based lenders and customer relations personnel, or senior executive officers. Additionally, the ability of Congress to utilize the amendment provisions to effect political or public relations goals could result in our being subjected to additional burdens as a result of public perceptions of issues relating to the largest banks, and which are not applicable to community oriented institutions such as us. We may be disadvantaged as a result of these uncertainties. As a result of the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury, we are required to comply with certain restrictions on executive and employee compensation included in the EESA, as amended. Certain of these provisions could limit the amount and the tax deductibility of compensation we pay to our executive officers, and could have an adverse affect on our ability to compete for and retain employees and senior executive officers. Any Future Increases in FDIC Insurance Premiums or Special Assessments Could Adversely Impact Our Earnings. In May 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution. We recorded an expense of approximately $178,000 during the year ended December 31, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the FDIC levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the FDIC increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our FDIC general insurance premium expense has increased compared to prior periods. The FDIC also issued a final rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. We prepaid $2.1 million of our assessments on December 30, 2009, based on our deposits and assessment rate as of September 30, 2009. The prepaid balance will be reduced by the actual expense for our quarterly assessments, until the balance is exhausted. Depending on how our actual assessments compare to the estimated assessments, the prepaid balance may be exhausted earlier than or later than the planned three year time period. In February 2011, the FDIC amended its deposit insurance regulations (1) to change the assessment base for insurance from domestic deposits to average assets minus average tangible equity and (2) to lower overall assessment rates. The revised assessments rates are between 2.5 to 9 basis points for banks in the lowest risk category and between 30 to 45 basis points for banks in the highest risk category. The amendments will become effective for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011 with the new assessment methodology being reflected in the premium invoices due September 30, 2011. K-24 Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results. By nature, all financial institutions are impacted by changing interest rates. Among other issues, changes in interest rates may affect the following: · the demand for new loans; · the value of our interest-earning assets; · prepayment speeds experienced on various asset classes, particularly residential mortgage loans; · credit profiles of existing borrowers; · rates received on loans and securities; · our ability to obtain and retain deposits in connection with other available investment alternatives; and · rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. The rates that we earn on our assets and the rates that we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. We, like many financial institutions, have liabilities that generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities. In addition, changes in interest rates can also affect the average life of our loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk. This means that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate and commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate. Commercial real estate lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances and the dependency on successful operation of the project for repayment. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans to small to medium businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including home equity and second mortgage loans, automobile loans and unsecured loans. Although commercial business loans and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. In addition, we have a concentration of higher balance commercial real estate and commercial business loans with a limited number of borrowers in our market area. As a result, we have a greater risk of a significant loss due to such concentration and a greater risk of loan defaults in the event of an economic downturn in our market area as adverse economic changes may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayment of their loans. K-25 Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, and other financial intermediaries operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefits them in attracting business and offer certain services that we do not provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. Government regulation will significantly affect the Bank's business, and may result in higher costs and lower shareholder returns. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal, state and local governmental authorities, including the FRB and the OCC. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations puts banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Changes in the laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect our ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that, among other things, imposes new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions and their holding companies. Among other things, the law creates a new consumer financial protection bureau that will have the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this independent bureau could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered financial institutions will be reduced. In addition, regulation mandated by the new law could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices which may have a material impact on our operations. Because the regulations under the new law are still being developed, we cannot determine the full impact on our business and operations at this time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 