Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We must conduct additional clinical trials for Zenvia and there can be no assurance that the FDA will approve Zenvia or that an approval, if granted, will be on terms we may seek. In October 2006, we received an “approvable letter” from the FDA for our new drug application (“NDA”) submission for Zenvia in the treatment of patients with the PBA/IEED indication. The approvable letter raised certain safety and efficacy concerns and the safety concerns will require additional clinical development to resolve. Based on discussions with the FDA, we were able to successfully resolve the outstanding efficacy concern of the original dose formulation. However, in order to address the safety concerns, we agreed to re-formulate Zenvia and conduct one additional confirmatory Phase III clinical trial using lower dose formulations. The goal of the study is to demonstrate improved safety while maintaining significant efficacy. The study is expected to be completed (as 9 Table of Contents defined as top-line safety and efficacy data becomes available) during the second half of calendar 2009. It is possible that the efficacy will be so reduced that we will not be able to satisfy the FDA’s efficacy requirements and there can be no assurance that the FDA will approve Zenvia for commercialization. Even if the confirmatory trial is successful, the additional development work will be costly and time consuming. Because our patents covering Zenvia expire at various times from 2011 through 2019 (without accounting for potential extensions that might be available or new patents that may be issued), any substantial delays in regulatory approval would negatively affect the commercial potential for Zenvia for this indication. Additionally, it is possible that Zenvia may not be approved with the labeling claims or for the patient population that we consider most desirable for the promotion of the product. Less desirable labeling claims could adversely affect the commercial potential for the product and could also affect our long-term prospects. Additionally, although we have a Special Protocol Assessment (“SPA”) from the FDA for our recently completed Phase III trial for DPN pain and for our planned confirmatory Phase III trial for Zenvia for PBA, there can be no assurance that the terms of the SPA will ultimately be binding on the FDA. An SPA is intended to serve as a binding agreement from the FDA on the adequacy of the design of a planned clinical trial. However, even where an SPA has been granted, additional data may subsequently become available that causes the FDA to reconsider the previously agreed upon scope of review and the FDA may have subsequent safety or efficacy concerns that override the SPA. As a result, even with an SPA, we cannot be certain that the trial results will be found to be adequate to support an efficacy claim and product approval. The FDA’s safety concerns regarding Zenvia for the treatment of PBA may extend to other clinical indications that we are pursuing, including DPN pain. Due to these concerns, we expect to develop Zenvia for other indications using alternative doses, which may negatively affect efficacy. We are currently developing Zenvia for the treatment of DPN pain, for which we have completed a Phase III trial. Although the FDA has not expressly stated that the safety concerns and questions raised in the PBA approvable letter would apply to other indications such as DPN pain, we believe that it is possible that the FDA will raise similar concerns for this indication. Accordingly, we are investigating the potential use of alternative formulations with lower doses of quinidine and various DM levels in the next Phase III trial for Zenvia for this indication. Although we achieved positive results in our initial Phase III trial, an alternative lower dose may not yield the same levels of efficacy as seen in the earlier trials and any drop in efficacy may be so great that the drug does not demonstrate a statistically significant improvement over placebo. Additionally, any alternative dose that we develop may not sufficiently satisfy the FDA’s safety concerns. If this were to happen, we may not be able to pursue the development of Zenvia for other indications or may need to undertake significant additional clinical trials, which would be costly and cause potentially substantial delays. There is also a risk that due to the change in dosage levels, the FDA may require two additional Phase III trials for regulatory approval, which would be costly and delay the potential commercial launch of this drug. We have limited capital resources and will need to raise additional funds to support our operations. We have experienced significant operating losses in funding the research, development and clinical testing of our drug candidates, accumulating operating losses totaling $238 million as of September 30, 2007, and we expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of September 30, 2007, we had approximately $33.6 million in cash, cash equivalents, investments in marketable securities and restricted cash. Additionally, because we sold FazaClo in August 2007, we currently do not have any meaningful sources of recurring revenue or cash flow. In light of our current capital resources, lack of near-term revenue opportunities and substantial long-term capital needs, we will need to raise significant amounts of additional capital in the future to complete the development of Zenvia and to finance our long-term operations. Based on our current loss rate and existing capital resources as of the date of this filing, we estimate that we have sufficient funds to sustain our operations at their current levels through the next twelve months. Although we expect to be able to raise additional capital and/or curtail current levels of operations to be able to continue to fund our operations beyond that time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to raise additional capital to fund future operations, then we 10 Table of Contents may be unable to fully execute our development plans for Zenvia and DPN pain. This may result in significant delays in our planned clinical trial of Zenvia for PBA and may force us to further curtail our operations. Any transactions that we may engage in to raise capital could dilute our shareholders and diminish certain commercial prospects. We will seek to raise additional capital and may do so at any time through various financing alternatives, including licensing or sales of our technologies, drugs and/or drug candidates, selling shares of common or preferred stock, or through the issuance of debt. Each of these financing alternatives carries certain risks. Raising capital through the issuance of common stock may depress the market price of our stock and any such financing will dilute our existing shareholders. If we instead seek to raise capital through licensing transactions or sales of one or more of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates, as we have stated we are actively considering with certain investigational compounds, then we will likely need to share a significant portion of future revenues from these drug candidates with our licensees. Additionally, the development of any drug candidates licensed or sold to third parties will no longer be in our control and thus we may not realize the full value of any such relationships. Our patents may be challenged and our patent applications may be denied. Either result would seriously jeopardize our ability to compete in the intended markets for our proposed products. We have invested in an extensive patent portfolio and we rely substantially on the protection of our intellectual property through our ownership or control of issued patents and patent applications. Such patents and patent applications cover Zenvia, docosanol 10% cream and other potential drug candidates that could come from our technologies such as anti-inflammatory compounds and antibodies. Because of the competitive nature of the biopharmaceutical industry, we cannot assure you that: • The claims in any pending patent applications will be allowed or that patents will be granted; • Competitors will not develop similar or superior technologies independently, duplicate our technologies, or design around the patented aspects of our technologies; • Our technologies will not infringe on other patents or rights owned by others, including licenses that may not be available to us; • Any of our issued patents will provide us with significant competitive advantages; or • Challenges will not be instituted against the validity or enforceability of any patent that we own or, if instituted, that these challenges will not be successful. Even if we successfully preserve our intellectual property rights, third parties, including other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, may allege that our technology infringes on their rights. Intellectual property litigation is costly, and even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, the cost of litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Litigation is also time-consuming and would divert management’s attention and resources away from our operations and other activities. If we were to lose any litigation, in addition to any damages we would have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any required license might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Some licenses might be non-exclusive, and our competitors could have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we were to fail to obtain a required license or were unable to design around a competitor’s patent, we would be unable to sell or continue to develop some of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have only a limited term of patent coverage for Zenvia, which could result in the introduction of generic competition within in a few years of product launch. Our PBA related patents for Zenvia expire at various times from 2011 through 2012 and our DPN pain patents for Zenvia expire in 2016. These expirations do not account for any potential patent term restoration nor does this account for the issuance of any patents pending. If Zenvia is approved, we can apply for a five year extension to one patent covering Zenvia; however, as Zenvia is not a new chemical entity, it is unknown whether or not Zenvia will qualify for patent term restoration under the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) guidelines. Once the patents covering Zenvia expire or the three-year Hatch Waxman exclusivity period has passed, generic drug 11 Table of Contents companies would be able to introduce competing versions of the drug. Although we have filed additional new patents for Zenvia, there can be no assurance that these patents will issue or that any patents will have claims that are broad enough to prevent generic competition. If we are unsuccessful in strengthening our patent portfolio, our long-term revenues from Zenvia sales may be less than expected. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions, we would not be able to market our products abroad and our revenue prospects would be limited. We may seek to have our products or product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have recently experienced significant turnover in senior management. Over the past 12 months, we have experienced significant turnover in our senior management team, including the departures of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, Vice President of Human Resources, Vice President of Drug Discovery, Vice President of Business Development, and Vice President of Clinical Affairs. As a result of these changes, we essentially have a new management team. It is not yet possible to assess how effective this management team will be and whether they will be able to work together to accomplish the Company’s business objectives. Additionally, changes in management are disruptive to the organization and any further changes may slow the Company’s progress toward its goals. Further, the Board of Directors may seek to reduce its size to streamline operations and to reflect the fact that the Company is significantly smaller than it was previously. Changes in Board composition may also be disruptive and the loss of the experience and capabilities of any of our Board members may reduce the effectiveness of the Board. We face challenges retaining members of management and other key personnel. The industry in which we compete has a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled employees. This type of environment creates intense competition for qualified personnel, particularly in clinical and regulatory affairs, sales and marketing and accounting and finance. Because we have a relatively small organization, the loss of any executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect our operations. For example, if we were to lose one or more of the senior members of our clinical and regulatory affairs team, the pace of clinical development for Zenvia could be slowed significantly. We have experienced extensive employee turnover recently, as discussed above, and the loss of any additional key employees could adversely affect our business and cause significant disruption in our operations. Risks Relating to Our Industry There are a number of difficulties and risks associated with clinical trials and our trials may not yield the expected results. There are a number of difficulties and risks associated with conducting clinical trials. For instance, we may discover that a product candidate does not exhibit the expected therapeutic results, may cause harmful side effects or have other unexpected characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit commercial use if approved. It typically takes several years to complete a late-stage clinical trial, such as the planned Phase III confirmatory trial for Zenvia for PBA, and a clinical trial can fail at any stage of testing. If clinical trial difficulties or failures arise, our product candidates may never be approved for sale or become commercially viable. 12 Table of Contents In addition, the possibility exists that: • the results from earlier clinical trials may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from subsequent clinical trials, particularly larger trials; • institutional review boards or regulators, including the FDA, may hold, suspend or terminate our clinical research or the clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if, in their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • subjects may drop out of our clinical trials; • our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative, inconsistent or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials; and • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate. It is possible that earlier clinical and pre-clinical trial results may not be predictive of the results of subsequent clinical trials. If earlier clinical and/or pre-clinical trial results cannot be replicated or are inconsistent with subsequent results, our development programs may be cancelled or deferred. In addition, the results of these prior clinical trials may not be acceptable to the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities because the data may be incomplete, outdated or not otherwise acceptable for inclusion in our submissions for regulatory approval. Additionally, the FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may reject our data or disagree with our interpretations of regulations or our clinical trial data or ask for additional information at any time during their review. For example, the use of different statistical methods to analyze the efficacy data from our recent Phase III trial of Zenvia in DPN pain results in significantly different conclusions about the efficacy of the drug. Although we believe we have legitimate reasons to use the methods that we have adopted as outlined in our SPA with the FDA, the FDA may not agree with these reasons and may disagree with our conclusions regarding the results of these trials. Although we expect to be able to fully address these concerns, we may not be able to resolve these matters favorably, if at all. Disputes that are not resolved favorably could result in one or more of the following: • delays in our ability to submit a New Drug Application (“NDA”); • the refusal by the FDA to accept for file any NDA we may submit; • requests for additional studies or data; • delays of an approval; or • the rejection of an application. If we do not receive regulatory approval to sell our product candidates or cannot successfully commercialize our product candidates, we would not be able to generate meaningful levels of sustainable revenues. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons. If we experience any such delays, we would be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, which would materially harm our business. Clinical trials may not begin on time or may need to be restructured after they have begun. Additionally, clinical trials can experience delays for a variety of other reasons, including delays related to: • identifying and engaging a sufficient number of clinical trial sites; • negotiating acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective trial sites; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • recruiting eligible subjects to participate in clinical trials; • competition in recruiting clinical investigators; • shortage or lack of availability of supplies of drugs for clinical trials; 13 Table of Contents • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or poorly executed testing; • the placement of a clinical hold on a study; • the failure of third parties conducting and overseeing the operations of our clinical trials to perform their contractual or regulatory obligations in a timely fashion; and • exposure of clinical trial subjects to unexpected and unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements, which may result in suspension of the trial. If we experience significant delays in or termination of clinical trials, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates or any other products that we may develop will be adversely impacted. In addition, our product development costs would increase and our ability to generate revenue could be impaired. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and most of our competitors are larger and have greater resources. As a result, we face significant competitive hurdles. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. We compete with hundreds of companies that develop and market products and technologies in similar areas as our research. For example, we expect that Zenvia will compete against antidepressants, atypical anti-psychotic agents and other agents. Our competitors may have specific expertise and development technologies that are better than ours and many of these companies, either alone or together with their research partners, have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs and substantially greater experience than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may successfully develop competing products. We are also competing with other companies and their products with respect to manufacturing efficiencies and marketing capabilities, areas where we have limited or no direct experience. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us, which could significantly harm our business. Marketed products, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for these products, are subject to continual requirements and review by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Even if we receive regulatory approval for one of our product candidates, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. In addition, regulatory authorities subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities to ongoing review and periodic inspections. We will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements, including required submissions of safety and other post-market information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP regulations, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping requirements. The cGMP regulations also include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. We rely on the compliance by our contract manufacturers with cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture of products. We are also subject to state laws and registration requirements covering the distribution of our products. Regulatory agencies may change existing requirements or adopt new requirements or policies. We may be slow to adapt or may not be able to adapt to these changes or new requirements. Developing and marketing pharmaceutical products for human use involves product liability risks, for which we currently have limited insurance coverage. The testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, product liability claims can be high in the pharmaceutical industry and our insurance may not sufficiently cover our actual liabilities. If product liability claims were made against us, it is possible that our insurance carriers may deny, or attempt to deny, coverage in certain instances. If a lawsuit against us is successful, then the lack or insufficiency of insurance 14 Table of Contents coverage could affect materially and adversely our business and financial condition. Furthermore, various distributors of pharmaceutical products require minimum product liability insurance coverage before their purchase or acceptance of products for distribution. Failure to satisfy these insurance requirements could impede our ability to achieve broad distribution of our proposed products and the imposition of higher insurance requirements could impose additional costs on us. Risks Related to Reliance on Third Parties Because we depend on clinical research centers and other contractors for clinical testing and for certain research and development activities, the results of our clinical trials and such research activities are, to a certain extent, beyond our control. The nature of clinical trials and our business strategy of outsourcing a substantial portion of our research require that we rely on clinical research centers and other contractors to assist us with research and development, clinical testing activities, patient enrollment and regulatory submissions to the FDA. As a result, our success depends partially on the success of these third parties in performing their responsibilities. Although we pre-qualify our contractors and we believe that they are fully capable of performing their contractual obligations, we cannot directly control the adequacy and timeliness of the resources and expertise that they apply to these activities. If our contractors do not perform their obligations in an adequate and timely manner, the pace of clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our drug candidates could be significantly delayed and our prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on third parties to manufacture, package and distribute compounds for our drugs and drug candidates. The failure of these third parties to perform successfully could harm our business. We have utilized, and intend to continue utilizing, third parties to manufacture, package and distribute Zenvia and the API for docosanol 10% cream and supplies for our drug candidates. We have no experience in manufacturing and do not have any manufacturing facilities. Currently, we have sole suppliers for the API for docosanol and Zenvia, and a sole manufacturer for the finished form of Zenvia. Any material disruption in manufacturing could cause a delay in shipments and possible loss of sales. We do not have any long-term agreements in place with our current docosanol supplier or Zenvia supplier. Any delays or difficulties in obtaining APIs or in manufacturing, packaging or distributing our products and product candidates could delay Zenvia clinical trials for PBA and/or DPN pain. Additionally, the third parties we rely on for manufacturing and packaging are subject to regulatory review, and any regulatory compliance problems with these third parties could significantly delay or disrupt our commercialization activities. We generally do not control the development of compounds licensed to third parties and, as a result, we may not realize a significant portion of the potential value of any such license arrangements. Under our license arrangement for our MIF compound, we have no direct control over the development of this drug candidate and have only limited, if any, input on the direction of development efforts. These development efforts are ongoing by our licensing partner and if the results of their development efforts are negative or inconclusive, it is possible that our licensing partner could elect to defer or abandon further development of these programs, as was the case in early 2007 when AstraZeneca terminated our license and collaboration agreement for our reverse cholesterol transport (“RCT”) mechanism technology. Because much of the potential value of these license arrangements is contingent upon the successful development and commercialization of the licensed technology, the ultimate value of these licenses will depend on the efforts of licensing partners. If our licensing partners do not succeed in developing the licensed technology for whatever reason, or elect to discontinue the development of these programs, we may be unable to realize the potential value of these arrangements. We expect to rely entirely on third parties for international sales and marketing efforts. In the event that we attempt to enter into international markets, we expect to rely on collaborative partners to obtain regulatory approvals and to market and sell our product(s) in those markets. We have not yet entered into any collaborative arrangement with respect to marketing or selling Zenvia, with the exception of one such agreement relating to Israel. We may be unable to enter into any other arrangements on terms favorable to us, or at all, and even if we are able to enter into sales and marketing arrangements with collaborative partners, we cannot assure you that 15 Table of Contents their sales and marketing efforts will be successful. If we are unable to enter into favorable collaborative arrangements with respect to marketing or selling Zenvia in international markets, or if our collaborators’ efforts are unsuccessful, our ability to generate revenue from international product sales will suffer. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stock price has historically been volatile and we expect that this volatility will continue for the foreseeable future. The market price of our Class A common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. This volatility can be attributed to many factors independent of our operating results, including the following: • Comments made by securities analysts, including changes in their recommendations; • Short selling activity by certain investors, including any failures to timely settle short sale transactions; • Announcements by us of financing transactions and/or future sales of equity or debt securities; • Sales of our Class A common stock by our directors, officers, or significant shareholders; • Announcements by our competitors of clinical trial results or product approvals; and • Market and economic conditions. Additionally, our stock price has been volatile as a result of announcements of regulatory actions and decisions relating to our product candidates, including Zenvia, and periodic variations in our operating results. We expect that our operating results will continue to vary from quarter-to-quarter. Our operating results and prospects may also vary depending on our partnering arrangements for our MIF technology, which has been licensed to a third party that controls the continued progress and pace of development, meaning that the achievement of development milestones is outside of our control. As a result of these factors, we expect that our stock price may continue to be volatile and investors may be unable to sell their shares at a price equal to, or above, the price paid. Additionally, any significant drops in our stock price, such as the one we experienced following the announcement of the Zenvia approvable letter, could give rise to shareholder lawsuits, which are costly and time consuming to defend against and which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital while the suits are pending, even if the suits are ultimately resolved in favor of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 