ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE Our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors. These factors include: • Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to Internet businesses and telecommunications service providers, in part due to the changing global economic environment • Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers’ spending plans and associated revenue • Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments • Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation • The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers • The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products and our success in new markets, including emerging and advanced technologies, as well as the adoption of new networking standards • Variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold • The timing, size, and mix of orders from customers • Manufacturing and customer lead times • Fluctuations in our gross margins, and the factors that contribute to this as described below • Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions • The ability of our customers, channel partners, and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures • The timing and amount of employer payroll tax to be paid on our employees’ gains on stock options exercised • Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements • How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans • Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales and manufacturing activities • Changes in accounting rules, such as recording expenses for employee stock option grants and changes in tax accounting principles As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. 11 Table of Contents OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS AND THE UNCERTAIN GEOPOLITICAL ENVIRONMENT Economic conditions worldwide have contributed to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries and may impact our business, resulting in: • Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on information technology-related capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers • Increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products • Risk of excess and obsolete inventories • Excess facilities and manufacturing capacity • Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense Recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, including terrorist activities and military actions, particularly the continuing tension in and surrounding Iraq, and changes in energy costs may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. If the economic and market conditions in the United States and globally do not improve, or if they deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. OUR REVENUE FOR A PARTICULAR PERIOD IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND A SHORTFALL IN REVENUE MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict. Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than in past periods, or may decline. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings, or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns. In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as leading to additional costs arising out of inventory management. In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which we and our contract manufacturers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters occur and are not remediated within the same quarter. In addition, to improve customer satisfaction, we continue to attempt to improve our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. Long manufacturing lead times have caused our customers in the past to place the same order multiple times within our various sales channels and to cancel the duplicative orders upon receipt of the product, or to place orders with other vendors with shorter manufacturing lead times. Such multiple ordering (along with other factors) may cause difficulty in predicting our sales and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. 12 Table of Contents WE EXPECT GROSS MARGIN TO VARY OVER TIME, AND OUR LEVEL OF PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN MAY NOT BE SUSTAINABLE Our level of product gross margins may not be sustainable and may continue to be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group • Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages • Our ability to reduce production costs • Entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures, through acquisitions, such as our acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta, or internal development • Sales discounts • Increases in material or labor costs • Excess inventory and inventory holding charges • Obsolescence charges • Changes in shipment volume • Loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand • Lower than expected benefits from value engineering • Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially China • Changes in distribution channels • Increased warranty costs • How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods. DISRUPTION OF OR CHANGES IN OUR DISTRIBUTION MODEL COULD HARM OUR SALES AND MARGINS If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors’ financial condition or operations weaken, our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail partners. Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators. Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally 13 Table of Contents given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. If sales through indirect channels increase, this may lead to greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a degree, the timing of orders from our customers. Historically, we have seen fluctuations in our gross margins based on changes in the balance of our distribution channels. Although variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability. Some factors could result in disruption of or changes in our distribution model, which could harm our sales and margins, including the following: • We compete with some of our channel partners through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products • Some of our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear • Some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR SALES TO OUR TWO-TIER DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL IS COMPLEX, AND EXCESS INVENTORY MAY HARM OUR GROSS MARGINS We must manage our inventory relating to sales to our distributors and retail partners effectively, because inventory held by them could affect our results of operations. Our distributors and retail partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Revenue to our distributors and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and they are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling price, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. If we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. SALES TO THE SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND WEAKNESS IN SALES ORDERS FROM THIS INDUSTRY MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and often sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain of our advanced technologies, in addition to longer sales cycles. We have experienced significant weakness in sales to service providers as market conditions have changed. Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations. Although some service providers may be increasing capital expenditures over the depressed levels that have prevailed over the last few years, weakness in orders from this industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Slowdowns in the general economy, overcapacity, changes in the service provider market, regulatory developments, and constraints on capital availability have had a material adverse effect on many of our service provider customers, with many of these customers going out of business or substantially reducing their expansion 14 Table of Contents plans. These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results, and we expect that some or all of these conditions may continue for the foreseeable future. Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of service including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers. A SHORTAGE OF ADEQUATE COMPONENT SUPPLY OR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS OR CAUSE A DELAY IN OUR ABILITY TO FULFILL ORDERS, AND OUR FAILURE TO ESTIMATE CUSTOMER DEMAND PROPERLY MAY RESULT IN EXCESS OR OBSOLETE COMPONENT SUPPLY, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROSS MARGINS Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations. We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for those parts, especially if the economy grows. Growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales. We believe that we may be faced with the following challenges in the future: • New markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain significant component capacity • As we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners • We face competition for certain components, which are supply-constrained, from existing competitors and companies in other markets Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints, including those caused by any possible disruption related to our implementation of lean manufacturing, could be significant issues for us. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help assure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our gross margins. For additional information regarding our purchase commitments, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders. 15 Table of Contents A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to adequately authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease. The fact that we do not own the bulk of our manufacturing facilities could have an adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our operating results. Financial problems of contract manufacturers on whom we rely, or reservation of manufacturing capacity by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase costs. Our key manufacturing facilities for Scientific-Atlanta’s products are located in Juarez, Mexico, and we may be materially and adversely affected by any prolonged disruption in the operation of this facility. THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE ARE INTENSELY COMPETITIVE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUE GROWTH For information regarding our competition and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 of this report. WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL TO PREDICT AND RESPOND TO EMERGING TECHNOLOGICAL TRENDS AND CUSTOMERS’ CHANGING NEEDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MARKET SHARE MAY SUFFER The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and evolving methods of building and operating networks. Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products into existing and emerging markets and to reduce the production costs of existing products. We believe that the Internet and the various networks associated with it, including corporate intranets, cable, broadband and dialup networks, and voice and video networks will evolve to include embedded resources and the virtualization of applications and services to produce an integrated, intelligent system, or as we refer to it, an Intelligent Information Network. This is our vision for the evolution of networking from connectivity products to intelligent systems. As such, many of our strategic initiatives and investments are aimed at meeting the requirements that an Intelligent Information Network would demand. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. In particular, if our model of the evolution of networking from connectivity products to intelligent systems does not emerge as we believe it will, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on that vision because of errors in product planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, net sales, and earnings. The success of new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Specifically, the products and technologies that we identify as “emerging technologies” or “advanced technologies” may not prove to have the market success we anticipate, and we may not successfully identify and invest in other emerging or advanced technologies. 16 Table of Contents WE ARE INCREASING OUR INVESTMENT IN ENGINEERING AND SALES ACTIVITIES AND THESE INVESTMENTS MAY ACHIEVE DELAYED, OR LOWER THAN EXPECTED, BENEFITS WHICH COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS We intend to continue to add personnel and other resources to both our engineering and sales functions as we focus on developing emerging technologies, the next wave of advanced technologies, growing the commercial market segment, capitalizing on our emerging market opportunities, enhancing our evolving support model and increasing our market share gains. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. OUR BUSINESS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET AND INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on growth of the Internet and on the deployment of our products by customers who depend on the continued growth of the Internet. To the extent that an economic slowdown and reduction in capital spending adversely affect spending on Internet infrastructure, we could experience material harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition. Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we believe that there could be certain performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility. Because we are a large supplier of networking products, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the performance of our own products. Such an event could also result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock independent of direct effects on our business. CHANGES IN INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND MARKET CONDITIONS COULD LEAD TO CHARGES RELATED TO DISCONTINUANCES OF CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS OR BUSINESSES AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings. WE HAVE MADE AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS Our growth depends upon market growth, our ability to enhance our existing products, and our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies, particularly companies with large and widespread operations and/or complex products, such as Scientific-Atlanta 17 Table of Contents • Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions • Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development • Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions • Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners • Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions • The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans Acquisitions may also cause us to: • Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership • Use a substantial portion of our cash resources or incur debt as we did recently when we issued and sold $6.5 billion in senior unsecured notes to fund our acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta • Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition • Assume liabilities • Record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges • Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets • Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses • Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that preacquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. From time to time, we have made acquisitions that resulted in in-process research and development expenses being charged in an individual quarter. These charges may occur in any particular quarter, resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods is uncertain, and could be impacted by mergers and acquisitions. Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions. Please see the risk factors above, including the risk factor entitled “We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer” for additional information. ENTRANCE INTO NEW OR DEVELOPING MARKETS EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL COMPETITION AND WILL LIKELY INCREASE DEMANDS ON OUR SERVICE AND SUPPORT OPERATIONS As we focus on new market opportunities—for example, storage; wireless; security; and transporting data, voice, and video traffic across the same network—we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications 18 Table of Contents equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past. Demand for these types of service or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities. Further, provision of greater levels of services by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. In addition, entry into other markets, including our entry into the consumer market, has subjected and will subject us to additional risks, particularly to those markets, including the effects of general market conditions and reduced consumer confidence. PRODUCT QUALITY PROBLEMS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED REVENUE, GROSS MARGINS, AND NET INCOME We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. There can be no assurance that our preshipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in products that we had shipped. Although the cost of such remediation has not been material in the past, there can be no assurance that such a remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income. INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. DUE TO THE GLOBAL NATURE OF OUR OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES OR OTHER FACTORS IN A SPECIFIC COUNTRY OR REGION COULD HARM OUR COSTS, EXPENSES, AND FINANCIAL CONDITION We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States, maintain a manufacturing facility for a substantial portion of our video systems products in Juarez, Mexico, and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers and our distribution partners. For fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, we derived approximately 47.5% and 48.8%, respectively, of our net sales from sales outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including, among others, foreign currency exchange rates; political or social unrest, economic instability or natural disasters in a specific country or region; environmental and trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import our products to, export our products from, or sell our products in various countries, such as, the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) adopted in February 2003 by the European Union and subsequently by certain other countries; political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns; health or 19 Table of Contents similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our costs, expenses, and financial condition. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain non-dollar-denominated operating expenses in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies. Currently, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables. In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our net income. WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements. We expect demand for customer financing to continue. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in supplying customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services and for working capital purposes. We do not recognize revenue on customer loan financing arrangements until cash payments are received. Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our financing activities described above may increase if there is an economic slowdown. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks. There have been significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred. Although these losses have not been material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A portion of our sales is derived through our distributors and retail partners. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms. However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations. 20 Table of Contents OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS MAY PROVE DIFFICULT TO ENFORCE We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful. WE MAY BE FOUND TO INFRINGE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Further, in the past, third parties have made infringement and similar claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. WE RELY ON THE AVAILABILITY OF THIRD-PARTY LICENSES Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the 21 Table of Contents need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED BY UNCERTAINTIES OF REGULATION OF THE INTERNET Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet. We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate. Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales taxes on Internet product sales, and access charges for Internet service providers. The adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. CHANGES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND TARIFFS COULD HARM OUR PROSPECTS AND FUTURE SALES Changes in telecommunications requirements in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various Federal Communications Commission requirements and regulations. In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES Our success has always depended in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California. Stock option grants are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us. Volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price, or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123(R) or otherwise, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. As a result of one or more of these factors, we may increase our hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. In addition, companies in the networking industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors have engaged in improper hiring practices. We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future. ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF LITIGATION MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to 22 Table of Contents predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” contained in Part I of this report. CHANGES IN EFFECTIVE TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Further, as a result of certain ongoing employment and capital investment commitments made by us, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates, and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet such commitments could adversely impact our effective tax rate. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS ARE ESPECIALLY SUBJECT TO THE RISKS OF EARTHQUAKES, FLOODS, AND OTHER NATURAL CATASTROPHIC EVENTS Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations and our manufacturing facilities, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, a certain number of our facilities, including one of our manufacturing facilities, are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. MANMADE PROBLEMS SUCH AS COMPUTER VIRUSES OR TERRORISM MAY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may meet with resistance. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the U.S. and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Similarly, events such as widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES; IMPAIRMENT OF OUR INVESTMENTS COULD HARM OUR EARNINGS We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Part of this portfolio includes equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If the public equities market 23 Table of Contents declines, we may recognize in earnings the decline in fair value of our publicly traded equity investments below the cost basis when the decline is judged to be other-than-temporary. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” included in our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders, which section is incorporated by reference into this report. Our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies. IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, WE MAY EXPERIENCE INCREASED COMPETITION OR DELAYS IN PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with whom we work to offer complementary products and services. These arrangements are generally limited to specific projects, the goal of which is generally to facilitate product compatibility and adoption of industry standards. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth. However, these alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties. WE ARE REQUIRED TO RECOGNIZE EXPENSE FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION RELATED TO EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASES, AND THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT THE EXPENSE THAT WE ARE REQUIRED TO RECOGNIZE MEASURES ACCURATELY THE VALUE OF OUR SHARE-BASED PAYMENT AWARDS, AND THE RECOGNITION OF THIS EXPENSE COULD CAUSE THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE On July 31, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS 123(R)”), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, starting with fiscal 2006, our operating results contain a charge for stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases. This charge is in addition to stock-based compensation expense we have recognized in prior periods related to acquisitions and investments. The application of SFAS 123(R) requires the use of an option-pricing model to determine the fair value of share-based payment awards. This determination of fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because our employee stock options have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management’s opinion the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value of our employee stock options. Although the fair value of employee stock options is determined in accordance with SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107 using an option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123(R), beginning with fiscal 2006, our earnings were lower than they would have been had we not been required to adopt SFAS 123(R). This will continue to be the case for future periods. We cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating results will have on the trading price of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Additionally, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program including our stock incentive program may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on the performance of our stock price. WE HAVE ISSUED $6.5 BILLION OF SENIOR UNSECURED NOTES, AND THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL NOT BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED On February 22, 2006, we issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $6.5 billion that mature at specific dates in 2009, 2011 and 2016. The notes that mature in 2009 bear floating-rate interest payable quarterly while the notes that mature in 2011 and 2016 bear fixed-rate interest payable semi-annually. We have entered into certain interest rate swaps to, in effect, convert the interest rates of the fixed interest notes into floating-rates based on the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR). Higher short-term interest rates would accordingly result in increased interest expense. While we presently mitigate this risk by investing a portion of our interest-bearing assets in instruments with similar interest rate characteristics as the swapped debt, there can be no assurance that we will maintain a matched portfolio in the future. The instruments governing the notes contain certain covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. We have not previously undertaken substantial amounts of debt for borrowed money. There can be no assurance that our incurrence of this debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our existing cash resources, including cash currently held offshore. Further, we cannot be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows the name, age and position as of August 31, 2006 of each of our executive officers (with the exception of Jonathan Chadwick, who will become an executive officer of Cisco effective September 20, 2006): Name Age Position Susan L. Bostrom 45 Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer and Worldwide Government Affairs Ms. Bostrom joined Cisco in October 1997 as Vice President of Cisco’s Applications and Services Marketing group. In August 1998, she was appointed Vice President of the Internet Business Solutions Group and was promoted to Senior Vice President in February 2000. In October 2002, she also assumed responsibility for Worldwide Government Affairs. In January 2006, she was appointed to her current position. Before joining Cisco, Ms. Bostrom had served as Senior Vice President of Global Marketing and Strategic Planning at FTP Software. Ms. Bostrom also currently serves on the board of directors of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. 25 Table of Contents Name Age Position Larry R. Carter 63 Senior Vice President, Office of the President, and Director Mr. Carter has been a member of the Board of Directors since July 2000. He joined Cisco in January 1995 as Vice President of Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary. In July 1997, he was promoted to Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary. In May 2003, upon his retirement as Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, he was appointed to his current position. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. as Vice President and Corporate Controller. Mr. Carter also currently serves on the board of directors of QLogic Corporation. John T. Chambers 57 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director Mr. Chambers has been a member of the Board of Directors since November 1993. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers was promoted to his current position as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations. Mark Chandler 50 Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary Mr. Chandler joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco’s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco’s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to Senior Vice President. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation. Charles H. Giancarlo 48 Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer Mr. Giancarlo joined Cisco in December 1994 as Director of Business Development. He was promoted to Vice President in September 1995. He was Vice President of Global Alliances from April 1997 to April 1999 and promoted to Senior Vice President in April 1998. In April 1999, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Commercial Line of Business. In August 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Access, Aggregation, Ethernet Switching, and Wireless Groups. In May 2002, he was promoted to Senior Vice President of the Switching, Voice and Storage Groups. In June 2003, he also became the President of Cisco-Linksys LLC. In August 2004, he was promoted to Chief Technology Officer. At the end of July 2005, he was promoted to his current position, and he currently serves as President of Cisco-Linksys LLC. Before joining Cisco, he served as Vice President of Marketing with Kalpana Corporation from July 1993 until Kalpana was acquired by Cisco in December 1994. 26 Table of Contents Name Age Position Richard J. Justice 56 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations Mr. Justice joined Cisco in December 1996 as Senior Vice President of the Americas. In February 2000, he was promoted to his current position. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Justice spent 22 years at Hewlett-Packard Company where, in his last role, he was responsible for Worldwide Enterprise Sales and Marketing. Randy Pond 52 Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes, and Systems Mr. Pond joined Cisco in September 1993. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of Cisco’s Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to his current position. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications. Dennis D. Powell 58 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Powell joined Cisco in January 1997 as Vice President, Corporate Controller. In June 2002, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance. Mr. Powell was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in May 2003. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Powell was employed by Coopers & Lybrand LLP for 26 years, most recently as a senior partner. Mr. Powell currently serves on the board of directors of Intuit Inc. Betsy Rafael 45 Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer Ms. Rafael joined Cisco in April 2002 as Vice President, Corporate Controller. In July 2003 she was also named to the role of Principal Accounting Officer. Before joining Cisco, from December 2000 until March 2002, Ms. Rafael was employed by Aspect Communications Corporation, most recently as Executive Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer. From May 2000 until November 2000, she was employed by Escalate Corporation as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From November 1994 until May 2000, she was employed by Silicon Graphics, Inc., most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Rafael currently serves on the board of directors of Echelon Corporation. Ms. Rafael will cease to be an executive officer of Cisco effective September 20, 2006, when she will assume the role of Vice President, Corporate Finance & Planning. James Richardson 49 Senior Vice President, Commercial Business Mr. Richardson joined Cisco in May 1990, founded Cisco’s Canadian operations, and was promoted to Vice President of Intercontinental Operations in June 1992. Mr. Richardson was promoted to Vice President of North American Operations in June 1994. He was promoted to President of EMEA and Senior Vice President in August 1996. In September 1999, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Office of the President. In January 2000, he was promoted to Senior Vice President of the Enterprise Line of Business and Internet Communications Software Group. In August 2001, Mr. Richardson was promoted to Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer. In January 2006, Mr. Richardson was appointed to his current position. 27 Table of Contents Name Age Position Jonathan Chadwick 40 Vice President, Corporate Finance & Planning Mr. Chadwick, 40, currently serves as Vice President, Corporate Finance & Planning of Cisco. Mr. Chadwick joined Cisco in September 1997 as Director, Finance & Accounting. In May 1999, he was promoted to Senior Director, Corporate Finance & Accounting, and in February 2001, he was promoted to his current position. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Chadwick was employed by Coopers & Lybrand LLP. Mr. Chadwick will become an executive officer of Cisco effective September 20, 2006, in connection with his appointment as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 