Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for the Corporation and could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Corporation and others in the financial services industry. For example, further deterioration in local economic conditions in the Corporation’s markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan losses. The Corporation may also face the following risks in connection with these events: · Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Corporation’s business. · Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. · The processes the Corporation uses to estimate the allowance for loan losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. · The Bank’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the processes and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. · The Corporation expects to face increased regulation of its industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase its costs, limit its ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. K-18 Table of Contents As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Corporation could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Change in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown, could hurt the Corporation’s business. The Corporation’s business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond the Corporation’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within the Corporation’s geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for the Corporation’s products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans made by the Bank many decline in value, in turn reducing a client’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the Corporation’s loans held for investment. The declining real estate market could impact the Corporation’s business. The Bank’s business activities and credit exposures are concentrated in Western Pennsylvania and the surrounding region. A continued downturn in this regional real estate market could hurt the Corporation’s business because of the geographic concentration within this regional area. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, the collateral for the Bank’s loans will provide less security. As a result, the Bank’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We opened one new branch office during calendar year 2008. There are considerable costs involved in opening offices and new offices generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new office can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the office reaches certain economies of scale. We have no assurance our new office will be successful even after it has been established. If external funds are not available, this could adversely impact our growth and future prospects. We primarily rely on deposits and FHLB advances to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits if desired, no assurance can be given that we will be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or market conditions were to change. Although we consider the sources of existing funds adequate for our current liquidity needs, we may seek brokered deposits or debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional funds, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. K-19 Table of Contents 