Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We must conduct additional clinical trials for Zenvia and there can be no assurance that the FDA will approve Zenvia. In October 2006, we received an “approvable letter” from the FDA for NDA submission for Zenvia in the treatment of patients with PBA. The approvable letter raised certain safety and efficacy concerns and the safety concerns will require additional clinical development to resolve. Based on discussions with the FDA, we were able to successfully resolve the outstanding efficacy concerns of the original dose formulation that was tested in earlier trials. In order to address the safety concerns, however, we agreed to re-formulate Zenvia and conduct one additional confirmatory Phase III clinical trial using lower dose quinidine formulations. The goal of the study is to demonstrate improved safety while maintaining a significant degree of the efficacy seen in our earlier trials testing higher quinidine doses. The study is expected to be completed (with completion defined by top-line safety and efficacy data becoming available) during the third calendar quarter of 2009. It is possible that the efficacy will be so reduced at lower quinidine doses that we will not be able to satisfy the FDA’s efficacy requirements, and there can be no assurance that the FDA will approve Zenvia for commercialization. Even if the confirmatory trial is successful, the additional development work will be costly and time consuming. Because our patents covering Zenvia expire at various times from 2011 through 2019 (up to 2023 in Europe) (without accounting for potential extensions that might be available or new patents that may be issued), any substantial delays in regulatory approval would negatively affect the commercial potential for Zenvia for this indication. Additionally, although we have a SPA from the FDA for our confirmatory Phase III trial for Zenvia for PBA, there can be no assurance that the terms of the SPA will ultimately be binding on the FDA. An SPA is intended to serve as a binding agreement from the FDA on the adequacy of the design of a planned clinical trial. Even where an SPA has been granted, however, additional data may subsequently become available that causes the FDA to reconsider the previously agreed upon scope of review and the FDA may have subsequent safety or efficacy concerns that override the SPA. For example, it is possible that we will not obtain enough data on cardiac risks in our ongoing Phase III trials to satisfy FDA safety concerns, which could necessitate further clinical trials. Additionally, because we expanded the planned number of patients to be enrolled in the ongoing PBA Phase III trial, the FDA may request other amendments to the trial design that could add to the trial’s cost and/or time, as well as degree of 8 Table of Contents difficulty in reaching clinical endpoints. As a result, even with an SPA, we cannot be certain that the trial results will be found to be adequate to demonstrate the safety and efficacy to product approval. The FDA’s safety concerns regarding Zenvia for the treatment of PBA may extend to other clinical indications that we are pursuing, including DPN pain. Due to these concerns, we expect to develop Zenvia for other indications using alternative doses, which may negatively affect efficacy. We are currently developing Zenvia for the treatment of DPN pain, for which we have completed a Phase III trial. Although the FDA has not expressly stated that the safety concerns and questions raised in the PBA approvable letter would apply to other indications such as DPN pain, we believe that it is possible that the FDA will raise similar concerns for this indication. Accordingly, we are planning to use a lower dose formulation of quinidine in the next Phase III trial for DPN pain. Although we achieved positive results in our initial Phase III trial, an alternative lower quinidine dose formulation may not yield the same levels of efficacy as seen in the earlier trials or as predicted based on our subsequent PK study. Any drop in efficacy may be so great that the drug does not demonstrate a statistically significant improvement over placebo. Additionally, any alternative lower quinidine dose formulation that we develop may not sufficiently satisfy the FDA’s safety concerns. If this were to happen, we may not be able to pursue the development of Zenvia for other indications or may need to undertake significant additional clinical trials, which would be costly and cause potentially substantial delays. There is also a risk that due to the change in dosage levels, the FDA may require two additional Phase III trials for regulatory approval, which would be costly and delay the potential commercial launch of this drug. Even if Zenvia receives marketing approval from the FDA, the approval may not be on the terms that we seek and could limit the marketability of the drug. Even if the FDA approves Zenvia for marketing in one or more indications, any side effects associated with this product candidate could cause the approval to be granted on terms less favorable than those we are seeking. This would in turn limit our ability to enter into licensing, partnering or collaboration arrangements with respect to Zenvia and to commercialize Zenvia and generate revenues from its sale. We are currently conducting additional pre-clinical and clinical safety studies designed to enhance our response to the FDA’s approvable letter. We will continue to assess the side-effect profile of Zenvia in our ongoing clinical development program. If the results of these additional studies show that Zenvia is associated with a significant risk of cardiac side effects, or we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, we could face one or more of the following: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning, which is the strongest type of warning that the FDA can require for a drug and is generally reserved for warning prescribers about adverse drug reactions that can cause serious injury or death; • regulatory authorities may withdraw approval of the product after its initial approval; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, monitor patients taking Zenvia, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; and • Zenvia may not be approved for commercialization. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of our product, even if it receives marketing approval, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercialization, which in turn could impair our ability to generate revenues from the product candidate. We have limited capital resources and will need to raise additional funds to support our operations. We have experienced significant operating losses in funding the research, development and clinical testing of our drug candidates, accumulating losses totaling $256 million as of September 30, 2008, and we expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of September 30, 2008, we had approximately $42.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and restricted investments in marketable securities. Additionally, we currently do not have any meaningful sources of recurring revenue or cash flow. In light of our current capital resources, lack of near-term revenue opportunities and substantial long-term capital needs, we will need to raise additional capital in the future to finance our long-term operations until we 9 Table of Contents expect to be able to generate meaningful amounts of revenue from product sales. Based on our current loss rate and existing capital resources as of the date of this filing, we estimate that we have sufficient funds to sustain our operations at their current levels through the anticipated timing of the FDA approval decision for Zenvia in PBA in the second half of calendar year 2010, assuming that our trials are completed on our projected timelines. Although we expect to be able to raise additional capital, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that the available terms of any financing would be acceptable to us. If we are unable to raise additional capital to fund future operations, then we may be unable to fully execute our development plans for Zenvia. This may result in significant delays in the development of Zenvia and may force us to further curtail our operations. Any transactions that we may engage in to raise capital could dilute our shareholders and diminish certain commercial prospects. Although we believe that we will have adequate capital reserves to fund operations through the anticipated timing of the FDA approval decision for Zenvia in PBA, we expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future. We may do so through various financing alternatives, including licensing or sales of our technologies, drugs and/or drug candidates, selling shares of common or preferred stock, or through the issuance of debt. Each of these financing alternatives carries certain risks. Raising capital through the issuance of common stock may depress the market price of our stock. Any such financing will dilute our existing shareholders and, if our stock price is relatively depressed at the time of any such offering, the levels of dilution would be greater. In addition, debt financing, to the extent available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as making capital expenditures or entering into licensing transactions. If we seek to raise capital through licensing transactions or sales of one or more of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates, as we have previously done with certain investigational compounds and docosanol 10% cream, then we will likely need to share a significant portion of future revenues from these drug candidates with our licensees. Additionally, the development of any drug candidates licensed or sold to third parties will no longer be in our control and thus we may not realize the full value of any such relationships. We have licensed out or sold most of our non-core drug development programs and related assets and these and other possible future dispositions carry certain risks. We have entered into agreements for the licensing out or sale of our non-core drug development programs, including FazaClo, macrophage migration inhibitory factor (“MIF”), our anthrax antibody program, and other antibodies in our infectious disease program, as well as docosanol in major markets worldwide. We may also out-license or otherwise partner Zenvia for PBA and/or the DPN pain indications if we are able to find a licensee or partner on acceptable terms. These transactions involve numerous risks, including: • Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • Disputes over earn-outs, working capital adjustments or contingent payment obligations; • Insufficient proceeds to offset expenses associated with the transactions; and • The potential loss of key employees following such a transaction. Transactions such as these may result in disputes regarding representations and warranties, indemnities, earn-outs, and other provisions in the transaction agreements. If disputes are resolved unfavorably, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transactions. Disputes relating to these transactions can lead to expensive and time-consuming litigation and may subject us to unanticipated liabilities or risks, disrupt our operations, divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, and increase our operating expenses. Our patents may be challenged and our patent applications may be denied. Either result would seriously jeopardize our ability to compete in the intended markets for our proposed products. We have invested in an extensive patent portfolio and we rely substantially on the protection of our intellectual property through our ownership or control of issued patents and patent applications. Such patents and patent 10 Table of Contents applications cover Zenvia, docosanol 10% cream and other potential drug candidates. Because of the competitive nature of the biopharmaceutical industry, we cannot assure you that: • The claims in any pending patent applications will be allowed or that patents will be granted; • Competitors will not develop similar or superior technologies independently, duplicate our technologies, or design around the patented aspects of our technologies; • Our technologies will not infringe on other patents or rights owned by others, including licenses that may not be available to us; • Any of our issued patents will provide us with significant competitive advantages; • Challenges will not be instituted against the validity or enforceability of any patent that we own or, if instituted, that these challenges will not be successful; or • We will be able to secure additional worldwide intellectual property protection for our Zenvia patent portfolio. Even if we successfully preserve our intellectual property rights, third parties, including other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, may allege that our technology infringes on their rights. Intellectual property litigation is costly, and even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, the cost of litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Litigation is also time-consuming and would divert management’s attention and resources away from our operations and other activities. If we were to lose any litigation, in addition to any damages we would have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any required license might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Some licenses might be non-exclusive, and our competitors could have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we were to fail to obtain a required license or were unable to design around a competitor’s patent, we would be unable to sell or continue to develop some of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have only a limited term of patent coverage and exclusivity protection for Zenvia in the U.S., which could result in the introduction of generic competition within a few years of product launch. Our PBA related patents for Zenvia in the U.S. expire at various times from 2011 through 2012 and our DPN pain patent for Zenvia expires in 2016 (we have longer patent protection for Zenvia in certain European markets). Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA approval, if any, of the use of Zenvia, some of our U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. If Zenvia is approved, the Hatch-Waxman Amendments may permit a patent restoration term of up to five years for one of our patents covering Zenvia as compensation for the patent term lost during product development and the regulatory review process. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. We intend to apply for patent term restoration. However, because Zenvia is not a new chemical entity, but is a combination of two approved products, it is uncertain whether Zenvia will be granted any patent term restoration under the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office guidelines. In addition, the patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years after the product’s approval date. Market exclusivity provisions under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, also may delay the submission or the approval of certain applications for competing product candidates. The FDCA provides three years of non-patent marketing exclusivity for an NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving abbreviated NDAs for drugs containing the original active agent. Once the three-year FDCA exclusivity period has passed and after the patents (including the patent restoration term, if any) that cover Zenvia expire, generic drug companies would be able to introduce competing versions of the drug. Although we have filed additional new patents for Zenvia, there can be no assurance that these patents will issue or that any patents will have claims that are broad enough to prevent generic competition. If we are 11 Table of Contents unsuccessful in strengthening our patent portfolio on a timely basis to secure sufficient protection against generic competition, our long-term revenues from Zenvia sales may be less than expected. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions, we would not be able to market our products abroad and our revenue prospects would be limited. We may seek to have our products or product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval processes may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. For example, our development partner in Japan has encountered significant difficulty in seeking approval of docosanol in that country and we may be forced to abandon efforts to seek approval in that country. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face challenges retaining members of management and other key personnel. The industry in which we compete has a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled employees. This type of environment creates intense competition for qualified personnel, particularly in clinical and regulatory affairs, accounting and finance. Because we have a relatively small organization, the loss of any executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect our operations. For example, if we were to lose one or more of the senior members of our clinical and regulatory affairs team, the pace of clinical development for Zenvia could be slowed significantly. We have experienced employee turnover and the loss of key employees could adversely affect our business and cause significant disruption in our operations. Risks Relating to Our Industry There are a number of difficulties and risks associated with clinical trials and our trials may not yield the expected results. There are a number of difficulties and risks associated with conducting clinical trials. For instance, we may discover that a product candidate does not exhibit the expected therapeutic results, may cause harmful side effects or have other unexpected characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit commercial use if approved. It typically takes several years to complete a late-stage clinical trial, such as the ongoing Phase III confirmatory trial for Zenvia for PBA, and a clinical trial can fail at any stage of testing. If clinical trial difficulties or failures arise, our product candidates may never be approved for sale or become commercially viable. In addition, the possibility exists that: • the results from earlier clinical trials may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from subsequent clinical trials, particularly larger trials; • institutional review boards or regulators, including the FDA, may hold, suspend or terminate our clinical research or the clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if, in their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • subjects may drop out of our clinical trials; • our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative, inconsistent or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials; and • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate. 12 Table of Contents It is possible that earlier clinical and pre-clinical trial results may not be predictive of the results of subsequent clinical trials. If earlier clinical and/or pre-clinical trial results cannot be replicated or are inconsistent with subsequent results, our development programs may be cancelled or deferred. In addition, the results of these prior clinical trials may not be acceptable to the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities because the data may be incomplete, outdated or not otherwise acceptable for inclusion in our submissions for regulatory approval. Additionally, the FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may reject our data or disagree with our interpretations of regulations or our clinical trial data or ask for additional information at any time during their review. For example, the use of different statistical methods to analyze the efficacy data from our Phase III trial of Zenvia in DPN pain results in significantly different conclusions about the efficacy of the drug. Although we believe we have legitimate reasons to use the methods that we have adopted as outlined in our SPA with the FDA, the FDA may not agree with these reasons and may disagree with our conclusions regarding the results of these trials. Although we would work to be able to fully address any such FDA concerns, we may not be able to resolve all such matters favorably, if at all. Disputes that are not resolved favorably could result in one or more of the following: • delays in our ability to submit an NDA; • the refusal by the FDA to accept for file any NDA we may submit; • requests for additional studies or data; • delays of an approval; • the rejection of an application; or • the approval of the drug, but with adverse labeling claims that could adversely affect the commercial market. If we do not receive regulatory approval to sell our product candidates or cannot successfully commercialize our product candidates, we would not be able to generate meaningful levels of sustainable revenues. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons. If we experience any such delays, we would be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, which would materially harm our business. Clinical trials may not begin on time or may need to be restructured after they have begun. Additionally, clinical trials can experience delays for a variety of other reasons, including delays related to: • identifying and engaging a sufficient number of clinical trial sites; • negotiating acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective trial sites; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • recruiting eligible subjects to participate in clinical trials; • competition in recruiting clinical investigators or patients, particularly if others are pursuing trials at the same time in the same patient population (whether or not for the same indication); • shortage or lack of availability of supplies of drugs for clinical trials; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or poorly executed testing; • the placement of a clinical hold on a study; • the failure of third parties conducting and overseeing the operations of our clinical trials to perform their contractual or regulatory obligations in a timely fashion; and • exposure of clinical trial subjects to unexpected and unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements, which may result in suspension of the trial. If we experience significant delays in or termination of clinical trials, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates or any other products that we may develop will be adversely impacted. In addition, our product development costs would increase and our ability to generate revenue could be impaired. 13 Table of Contents The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and most of our competitors are larger and have greater resources. As a result, we face significant competitive hurdles. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. We compete with hundreds of companies that develop and market products and technologies in similar areas as our research. For example, we expect that Zenvia will face competition from antidepressants, atypical anti-psychotic agents and other agents in the treatment of PBA and from a variety of pain medications and narcotic agents for the treatment of DPN. Our competitors may have specific expertise and development technologies that are better than ours and many of these companies, which include large pharmaceutical companies, either alone or together with their research partners, have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs and substantially greater experience than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may successfully develop competing products. We are also competing with other companies and their products with respect to manufacturing efficiencies and marketing capabilities, areas where we have limited or no direct experience. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us, which could significantly harm our business. Marketed products, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for these products, are subject to continual requirements and review by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Even if we receive regulatory approval for one of our product candidates, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. In addition, regulatory authorities subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities to ongoing review and periodic inspections. We will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements, including required submissions of safety and other post-market information and reports, registration requirements, current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”) regulations, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping requirements. The cGMP regulations also include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. We rely on the compliance by our contract manufacturers with cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture of products. We are also subject to state laws and registration requirements covering the distribution of our products. Regulatory agencies may change existing requirements or adopt new requirements or policies. We may be slow to adapt or may not be able to adapt to these changes or new requirements. We rely on insurance companies to mitigate our exposure for business activities, including developing and marketing pharmaceutical products for human use. The testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, product liability claims can be high in the pharmaceutical industry and our insurance may not sufficiently cover our actual liabilities. If product liability claims were made against us, it is possible that our insurance carriers may deny, or attempt to deny, coverage in certain instances. If a lawsuit against us is successful, then the lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could affect materially and adversely our business and financial condition. Furthermore, various distributors of pharmaceutical products require minimum product liability insurance coverage before their purchase or acceptance of products for distribution. Failure to satisfy these insurance requirements could impede our ability to achieve broad distribution of our proposed products and the imposition of higher insurance requirements could impose additional costs on us. Additionally, we are potentially at risk if our insurance carriers become insolvent. Although we have historically obtained coverage through well rated and capitalized firms, the ongoing financial crisis may affect our ability to obtain coverage under existing policies or purchase insurance under new policies at reasonable rates. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Reliance on Third Parties Because we depend on clinical research centers and other contractors for clinical testing and for certain research and development activities, the results of our clinical trials and such research activities are, to a certain extent, beyond our control. The nature of clinical trials and our business strategy of outsourcing a substantial portion of our research require that we rely on clinical research centers and other contractors to assist us with research and development, clinical testing activities, patient enrollment and regulatory submissions to the FDA. As a result, our success depends partially on the success of these third parties in performing their responsibilities. Although we pre-qualify our contractors and we believe that they are fully capable of performing their contractual obligations, we cannot directly control the adequacy and timeliness of the resources and expertise that they apply to these activities. Additionally, the current global economic slowdown may affect our development partners and vendors, which could adversely affect our ability to complete our trials within projected time periods. If our contractors do not perform their obligations in an adequate and timely manner, the pace of clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our drug candidates could be significantly delayed and our prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on third parties to manufacture, package and distribute compounds for our drugs and drug candidates. The failure of these third parties to perform successfully could harm our business. We have utilized, and intend to continue utilizing, third parties to manufacture, package and distribute Zenvia and the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (“API”) for docosanol 10% cream and to provide clinical supplies of our drug candidates. We have no experience in manufacturing and do not have any manufacturing facilities. Currently, we have sole suppliers for the API for docosanol and Zenvia, and a sole manufacturer for the finished form of Zenvia. In addition, these materials are custom and available from only a limited number of sources. Any material disruption in manufacturing could cause a delay in shipments and possible loss of sales. We do not have any long-term agreements in place with our current docosanol supplier or Zenvia supplier. If we are required to change manufacturers, we may experience delays associated with finding an alternate manufacturer that is properly qualified to produce supplies of our products and product candidates in accordance with FDA requirements and our specifications. Any delays or difficulties in obtaining APIs or in manufacturing, packaging or distributing Zenvia could delay our clinical trials of this product candidate for PBA and/or DPN pain. The third parties we rely on for manufacturing and packaging are also subject to regulatory review, and any regulatory compliance problems with these third parties could significantly delay or disrupt our commercialization activities. Additionally, the ongoing economic crisis creates risk for us if any of these third parties suffer liquidity or operational problems. If a key third party vendor becomes insolvent or is forced to lay off workers assisting with our projects, our results and development timing could suffer. We generally do not control the development of compounds licensed to third parties and, as a result, we may not realize a significant portion of the potential value of any such license arrangements. Under our license arrangement for our MIF compound, we have no direct control over the development of this drug candidate and have only limited, if any, input on the direction of development efforts. These development efforts are ongoing by our licensing partner and if the results of their development efforts are negative or inconclusive, it is possible that our licensing partner could elect to defer or abandon further development of these programs, as was the case in early 2007 when AstraZeneca terminated our license and collaboration agreement. We similarly rely on licensing partners to obtain regulatory approval for docosanol in foreign jurisdictions. Because much of the potential value of these license arrangements is contingent upon the successful development and commercialization of the licensed technology, the ultimate value of these licenses will depend on the efforts of licensing partners. If our licensing partners do not succeed in developing the licensed technology for whatever reason, or elect to discontinue the development of these programs, we may be unable to realize the potential value of these arrangements. We expect to rely entirely on third parties for international sales and marketing efforts. In the event that we attempt to enter into international markets, we expect to rely on collaborative partners to obtain regulatory approvals and to market and sell our product(s) in those markets. We have not yet entered into any collaborative arrangement with respect to marketing or selling Zenvia, with the exception of one such agreement 15 Table of Contents relating to Israel. We may be unable to enter into any other arrangements on terms favorable to us, or at all, and even if we are able to enter into sales and marketing arrangements with collaborative partners, we cannot assure you that their sales and marketing efforts will be successful. If we are unable to enter into favorable collaborative arrangements with respect to marketing or selling Zenvia in international markets, or if our collaborators’ efforts are unsuccessful, our ability to generate revenues from international product sales will suffer. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. The listing standards of The NASDAQ Global Market provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. On August 13, 2008, we received a staff determination letter from NASDAQ indicating that we failed to comply with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing. We were given an initial cure period of 180 calendar days, or until February 9, 2009, to regain compliance by having the bid price of our common stock close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. In October 2008, the NASDAQ Stock Market suspended enforcement of the $1.00 minimum bid requirement due to the rapid deterioration of the capital markets through January 16, 2009. As a result, we believe we have until May 18, 2009 to regain the compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If we fail to comply with the listing standards, our common stock listing may be moved to the NASDAQ Capital Market, which is a lower tier market, or our common stock may be delisted and traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board network. Moving our listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and the delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and could significantly negatively affect the value of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could further depress our stock price and materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Delisting from NASDAQ could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our stock price has historically been volatile and we expect that this volatility will continue for the foreseeable future. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. This volatility can be attributed to many factors independent of our operating results, including the following: • Announcements by us regarding our non-compliance with continued listing standards on the NASDAQ stock market; • Comments made by securities analysts, including changes in their recommendations; • Short selling activity by certain investors, including any failures to timely settle short sale transactions; • Announcements by us of financing transactions and/or future sales of equity or debt securities; • Sales of our common stock by our directors, officers, or significant shareholders; • Announcements by our competitors of clinical trial results or product approvals; and • Market and economic conditions. Additionally, our stock price has been volatile as a result of announcements of regulatory actions and decisions relating to our product candidates, including Zenvia, and periodic variations in our operating results. We expect that our operating results will continue to vary from quarter-to-quarter. Our operating results and prospects may also vary depending on our partnering arrangements for our MIF technology, which has been licensed to a third party that controls the continued progress and pace of development, meaning that the achievement of development milestones is outside of our control. As a result of these factors, we expect that our stock price may continue to be volatile and investors may be unable to sell their shares at a price equal to, or above, the price paid. Additionally, any significant drops in our stock price, such as the one we experienced following the announcement of the Zenvia approvable letter, could give rise to 16 Table of Contents shareholder lawsuits, which are costly and time consuming to defend against and which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital while the suits are pending, even if the suits are ultimately resolved in favor of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 