Item 1A. Risk Factors Deterioration of economic conditions in our geographic market area could hurt our business. We are located in western Pennsylvania and our loans are concentrated in Butler, Clarion, Crawford, Jefferson and Venango Counties, Pennsylvania. Although we have diversified our loan portfolio into other Pennsylvania counties, and to a very limited extent, into other states, the vast majority of our loans remain concentrated in the three primary counties. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic and real estate market conditions in these areas. Deterioration in economic or real estate market conditions in our primary market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, the demand for our products and services, and our financial condition and results of operations. Non-performing assets increased from $1.1 million or 0.28% of total assets at December 31, 2008 to $2.6 million or 0.56% of total assets at December 31, 2009. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance for loan losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. However, experience in the banking industry indicates that a portion of our loans will become delinquent, that some of our loans may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid and we may experience other losses for reasons beyond our control. Despite our underwriting criteria and historical experience, we may be particularly susceptible to losses due to: (1) the geographic concentration of our loans; (2) the concentration of higher risk loans, such as commercial real estate and commercial business loans; and (3) our lack of experience with the loans acquired in the Titusville branch acquisition. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our current levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb any inherent losses in our loan portfolio, these estimates of loan losses are necessarily subjective and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. If we need to make significant and unanticipated increases in our loss allowance in the future, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected at that time. K-19 Economic conditions and increased uncertainty in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to accurately assess the allowance for credit losses. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the values of our assets and collateral for loans will be reduced if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. We estimate losses inherent in our loan portfolio, the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and the values of certain assets by using estimates based on difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including estimates as to the effects of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of assets. Further declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings. At December 31, 2009, our investment portfolio included $2.8 million of securities in other financial institutions held by us. After our third quarter 2009 evaluation of our investment portfolio, we determined that other-than-temporary impairments existed on three financial institution equity securities. The impairment of these securities were considered to be other-than-temporary due to continued concerns related to the financial condition and near-term prospects of the three financial institutions, economic conditions of the financial services industry and deteriorating market values. These securities were written down to their fair market values as of September 30, 2009 and resulted in impairment losses of $898,000 that we recognized for the year ended December 31, 2009. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to one or more of these securities or other financial institution securities will constitute an impairment that is other-than temporary. These factors include, but are not limited to, failure to make scheduled interest or dividend payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. Additional other-than-temporary impairment write-downs could reduce our earnings. We hold certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, our earnings and the book values of these assets would decrease. We are required to test our goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common shares, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a partial or full impairment of the value of our goodwill or core deposit intangible assets, or both. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, and other sources, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could negatively impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, adverse regulatory action against us, or our inability to attract and retain deposits. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the unstable credit markets. K-20 Our continued growth depends on our ability to meet minimum regulatory capital levels. Growth and shareholder returns may be adversely affected if sources of capital are not available to help us meet them. As we grow, we will have to maintain our regulatory capital levels at or above the required minimum levels. If earnings do not meet our current estimates, if we incur unanticipated losses or expenses, or if we grow faster than expected, we may need to obtain additional capital sooner than expected, through borrowing, additional issuances of debt or equity securities, or otherwise. If we do not have continued access to sufficient capital, we may be required to reduce our level of assets or reduce our rate of growth in order to maintain regulatory compliance. Under those circumstances net income and the rate of growth of net income may be adversely affected. Additional issuances of equity securities could have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. There can be no assurance that recent legislation and regulatory actions taken by the federal government will help stabilize the financial system in the United States. Several pieces of federal legislation have been enacted, and the U.S. Treasury, the FRB, the FDIC, and other federal agencies have enacted numerous programs, policies and regulations to address the current liquidity and credit crises. These measures include the EESA, the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009 (ARRA), and the numerous programs, including the CPP and expanded deposit insurance coverage, enacted thereunder. In addition, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury has proposed fundamental changes to the regulation of financial institutions, markets and products. We cannot predict the actual effects of EESA, the ARRA, the proposed regulatory reform measures and various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets, on us and the Bank. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading prices of our securities. We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of EESA, the ARRA and related initiatives by the federal government. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. We are subject to additional uncertainties, and potential additional regulatory or compliance burdens, as a result of our participation in the CPP. We accepted an investment of $7.5 million from the U.S. Treasury under the CPP. The Agreement we (and all other participating institutions) entered into with the U.S. Treasury, provides that the U.S. Treasury may unilaterally amend the agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after the execution in applicable federal statutes. As a result of this provision, the U.S. Treasury and Congress may impose additional requirements or restrictions on us and the Bank in respect of reporting, compliance, corporate governance, executive or employee compensation, dividend payments, stock repurchases, lending or other business practices, capital requirements or other matters. We may be required to expend additional resources in order to comply with these requirements. Such additional requirements could impair our ability to compete with institutions that are not subject to the restrictions because they did not accept an investment from the U.S. Treasury. To the extent that additional restrictions or limitations on employee compensation are imposed, such as those contained in ARRA and the regulations issued in June 2009, we may be less competitive in attracting and retaining successful incentive compensation based lenders and customer relations personnel, or senior executive officers. K-21 Additionally, the ability of Congress to utilize the amendment provisions to effect political or public relations goals could result in our being subjected to additional burdens as a result of public perceptions of issues relating to the largest banks, and which are not applicable to community oriented institutions such as us. We may be disadvantaged as a result of these uncertainties. As a result of the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury, we are required to comply with certain restrictions on executive and employee compensation included in the EESA, as amended. Certain of these provisions could limit the amount and the tax deductibility of compensation we pay to our executive officers, and could have an adverse affect on our ability to compete for and retain employees and senior executive officers. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009 already, and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. A large number of bank failures has significantly depleted the deposit insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution's assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution's assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC in the future, including a possible additional assessment in 2009. We participate in the FDIC's TLGP for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLGP pays the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLGP assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLGP program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLGP program upon depository institution holding companies, as well. The TLGP was originally scheduled to end December 31, 2009, but in August 2009, the FDIC has extended the TLGP to June 30, 2010, but is charging a higher fee to banks that elect to participate in the extension. These changes will cause our deposit insurance expense to increase. These actions could significantly increase our noninterest expense for the foreseeable future. In November 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule to recapitalize the DIF by requiring insured institutions to prepay their insurance premiums for the quarter ending December 31, 2009 and for the years ending December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepayment was collected on December 30, 2009 and totaled $2.1 million. The FDIC further proposed that assessments for the years ending December 31, 2011 and 2012 would increase by three basis points, and would be based upon assumed increases in insured deposits of 5% annually through 2012. An increase in assessment rates will result in a further increase in our FDIC general insurance premium expense, and the prepayment of insurance premiums increased our non-earning assets. Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results. By nature, all financial institutions are impacted by changing interest rates. Among other issues, changes in interest rates may affect the following: · the demand for new loans; · the value of our interest-earning assets; · prepayment speeds experienced on various asset classes, particularly residential mortgage loans; · credit profiles of existing borrowers; · rates received on loans and securities; · our ability to obtain and retain deposits in connection with other available investment alternatives; and · rates paid on deposits and borrowings. K-22 Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. The rates that we earn on our assets and the rates that we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. We, like many financial institutions, have liabilities that generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities. In addition, changes in interest rates can also affect the average life of our loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk. This means that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate and commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate. Commercial real estate lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances and the dependency on successful operation of the project for repayment. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans to small to medium businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including home equity and second mortgage loans, automobile loans and unsecured loans. Although commercial business loans and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. In addition, we have a concentration of higher balance commercial real estate and commercial business loans with a limited number of borrowers in our market area. As a result, we have a greater risk of a significant loss due to such concentration and a greater risk of loan defaults in the event of an economic downturn in our market area as adverse economic changes may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayment of their loans. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, and other financial intermediaries operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefits them in attracting business and offer certain services that we do not provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. K-23 Government regulation will significantly affect the Bank's business, and may result in higher costs and lower shareholder returns. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal, state and local governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations puts banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Changes in the laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect our ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 