Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk. 14 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. THE MAJORITY OF OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS REVENUE IS DEPENDENT ON OUR CUSTOMERS' CONTINUED USE OF IBM AND IBM-COMPATIBLE PRODUCTS. The majority of our revenue from software products is generated from products designed for use with IBM and IBM-compatible mainframe computers. As a result, the majority of our revenue from software products is dependent on our customers' continued use of IBM and IBM-compatible mainframe products. In addition, because our products operate in conjunction with IBM systems software, changes to IBM systems software may require us to adapt our products to these changes. An inability to do so, or any delay in doing so, may adversely affect our operating results. OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCT REVENUE IS DEPENDENT ON THE ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRICING STRUCTURE FOR SOFTWARE LICENSES AND MAINTENANCE. The pricing of our software licenses and maintenance is under constant pressure from customers and competitive vendors which can negatively impact our software product revenue. These competitive pressures may have a negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. OUR STRATEGY TO PACKAGE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AS A SINGLE OFFERING MAY NOT BE ACCEPTED BY OUR CUSTOMERS, NEGATIVELY IMPACTING OUR REVENUE. We offer bundled product and service arrangements to ensure our customers receive the full value of our products. There can be no assurance that customers will accept these packages. As a result, this may decrease our sales volume and have a negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. WE MAY FAIL TO ACHIEVE OUR FORECASTED FINANCIAL RESULTS DUE TO INACCURATE SALES FORECASTS OR OTHER FACTORS. Our revenues, and particularly our software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and as a result, our actual financial results can vary substantially from our forecasted results. Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate the sales forecast. Our sales forecast estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time. In addition, even after contracts have been executed, analysis is required before the timing of revenue recognition can be determined. IF WE FAIL TO ACHIEVE THE RESULTS WE EXPECT FROM OUR EXPENSE REDUCTION PROGRAM, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. In fiscal 2008, we implemented plans to reduce expenses, which included the consolidation and elimination of certain product development locations, reduction in discretionary spending, reduction in the work force and other cost cutting measures, resulting in restructuring charges during fiscal 2008 (see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this report). There can be no assurance that our restructuring plan to reduce expenses will produce the cost savings we anticipate. 15 OUR SOFTWARE AND TECHNOLOGY MAY INFRINGE THE PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OF OTHERS. Our software products are developed or enhanced internally or acquired through acquisitions. All employees sign an agreement which states that the employee was hired for his or her talent and skill rather than for any trade secrets or proprietary information of others of which he or she may have knowledge. Further, our employees execute an agreement stating that work developed for us or our clients belongs to us or our clients, respectively. During the due diligence stage of any software acquisition, we research and investigate the title to the software we will be acquiring from the seller. This investigation generally includes without limitation, litigation searches, copyright and trademark searches, review of development documents and interviews with key employees of the seller regarding development, title and ownership of the software products being acquired. The acquisition document itself generally contains representations, warranties and covenants concerning the title and ownership of the software products as well as indemnification and remedy provisions in the event the representations, warranties and covenants are breached by the seller. Although we use all reasonable efforts to ensure we do not infringe on third party intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us with respect to current and future products or that any such assertion will not require us to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly litigation. OUR RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF OUR OPERATING MARGIN OR OPERATING MARGIN PERCENTAGE DECLINE. Our distributed software and application services businesses have a lower operating margin percentage than our mainframe business. Further, these businesses are growing faster than Compuware's other businesses. The growth of our distributed software and application services could result in a lower operating margin percentage for Compuware as a whole. In addition, if the mainframe business experiences a decline in revenue or operating margin percentage, our operating margin or operating margin percentage may decline. OUR RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY INCREASED COMPETITION, PRICING PRESSURES AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES. The markets for our software products are highly competitive. We consider over 40 firms to be directly competitive with one or more of our products. Our competitors include, among others, BMC Software, Inc., Borland Software Corp., Hewlett-Packard Company, CA, Inc. and IBM. The principal competitive factors affecting the market for our software products include: responsiveness to customer needs, functionality, performance, reliability, ease of use, quality of customer support, sales channels, vendor reputation and price. A variety of external and internal events and circumstances could adversely affect our competitive capacity. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, to a great extent, upon our performance in sales, product development and customer support. To be successful in the future, we must respond promptly and effectively to our customers' purchasing methodologies, challenges of technological change and our competitors' innovations by continually enhancing our product offerings. We operate in an industry characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. If we fail to keep pace with technological change in our industry, such failure would have an adverse effect on our revenues. During the past several years, many new technological advancements and competing products entered the marketplace. To the extent that our current product portfolio does not meet such changing requirements, our revenues will suffer. Delays in new product introductions or less-than-anticipated market acceptance of these new products are possible and would have an adverse effect on our revenues. Developers of third party products, including operating systems, databases, systems software, applications, networks, servers and computer hardware, frequently introduce new or modified products. These new or modified third party products could incorporate features which perform functions currently 16 performed by our products or could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies' hardware or software. While we have generally been able to adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by new or modified third party product offerings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Failure to adapt our products in a timely manner to such changes or customer decisions to forego the use of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality contained either in the hardware or other software could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. THE MARKET FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, FRAGMENTED AND CHARACTERIZED BY LOW BARRIERS TO ENTRY. Our principal competitors in professional services include, among others, Accenture Ltd., Computer Sciences Corporation, Electronic Data Systems Corporation, IBM Global Services, Analysts International Corporation, Keane, Inc., Infosys Technologies, Sun Microsystems, Inc. and numerous other regional and local firms in the markets in which we have professional services offices. Several of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, recruiting and training resources than we do. The principal competitive factors affecting the market for our professional services include responsiveness to customer needs, breadth and depth of technical skills offered, availability and productivity of personnel, ability to demonstrate achievement of results and price. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. THE MARKET FOR APPLICATION SERVICES IS IN ITS EARLY STAGES WITH EMERGING COMPETITORS. AS THE MARKET MATURES, COMPETITION MAY INCREASE AND COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our principal competitors in application services include Electronic Data Systems Corporation, IBM Global Services, GXS Strategies, Sterling Commerce and other regional and local firms in the markets in which we have customers or potential customers. Several of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, recruiting and training resources than we do. The principal competitive factors affecting the market for application services are price, speed of implementation, reduced risk related to regulatory compliance and implementation problems, inclusion of state of the art technology features, solution performance and ability to meet customer service level requirements. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete sucessfully in the future. WE MUST DEVELOP OR ACQUIRE PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS AND NEW PRODUCTS TO SUCCEED. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop product enhancements and new products which keep pace with continuing changes in technology and customer preferences. The majority of our products have been developed from acquired technology and products. We believe that our future growth lies, in part, in continuing to identify, acquire and then develop promising technologies and products. While we are continually searching for acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in identifying, acquiring and developing products and technology. If any potential acquisition opportunities are identified, there can be no assurance that we will consummate and successfully integrate any such acquisitions and there can be no assurance as to the timing or effect on our business of any such acquisitions. Our failure to develop technological improvements or to adapt our products to technological change may, over time, have a material adverse effect on our business. ACQUISITIONS MAY BE DIFFICULT TO INTEGRATE, DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS OR DIVERT THE ATTENTION OF OUR MANAGEMENT AND MAY RESULT IN FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT ARE DIFFERENT THAN EXPECTED. As part of our overall strategy, we have acquired or invested in, and plan to continue to acquire or invest in, complementary companies, products, and technologies and may enter into joint ventures and strategic alliances with other companies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the combined companies; the risk that we may not be able to integrate the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the inability to retain key technical, sales and managerial personnel; the inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; the risk that revenues from acquired companies, products and technologies do not meet our expectations; and decreases in reported earnings as a result of charges for in-process research and development and amortization of acquired intangible assets. 17 For us to maximize the return on some of our investments in acquired companies, the products of these entities must be integrated with our existing products. These integrations can be difficult and unpredictable, especially given the complexity of software and that acquired technology is typically developed independently and designed with no regard to integration. The difficulties are compounded when the products involved are well-established because compatibility with the existing base of installed products must be preserved. Successful integration also requires coordination of different development and engineering teams. This too can be difficult and unpredictable because of possible cultural conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product integration efforts or that we will realize the expected benefits. With each of our acquisitions, we have initiated efforts to integrate the disparate cultures, employees, systems and products of these companies. Retention of key employees is critical to ensure the continued development, support, sales and marketing efforts pertaining to the acquired products. We have implemented retention programs to keep many of the key technical and sales employees of acquired companies; nonetheless, we have lost some key employees and may lose others in the future. WE ARE EXPOSED TO EXCHANGE RATE RISKS ON FOREIGN CURRENCIES AND TO OTHER INTERNATIONAL RISKS WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Over one-third of our total revenues are derived from foreign operations and we expect that foreign operations will continue to generate a significant percentage of our total revenues. Products are priced in the currency of the country in which they are sold. Changes in the exchange rates of foreign currencies or exchange controls may adversely affect our results of operations. The international business is also subject to other risks, including the need to comply with foreign and U.S. laws and the greater difficulty of managing business overseas. In addition, our foreign operations are affected by general economic conditions in the international markets in which we do business. A worsening of economic conditions in these markets could cause customers to delay or forego decisions to license new products or to reduce their requirements for professional and application services. A FURTHER DECLINE IN THE U.S. DOMESTIC AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING BUSINESS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AND APPLICATION SERVICES BUSINESSES. Approximately one-third of our worldwide professional and application services revenue is generated from customers in the automotive industry, with the vast majority of that related to U.S. domestic automotive manufacturers. Many participants in the domestic automotive industry are engaged in restructuring and other efforts to cut costs, including IT expenditures. Further negative developments in this industry could reduce the demand for our services from these customers, which could have a significant impact on our professional and application services revenue and our margins. CURRENT LAWS MAY NOT ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. We regard our software as proprietary and attempt to protect it with copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws and/or restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We have many patents and many patent applications pending. However, existing patent and copyright laws afford only limited practical protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any claims against those who infringe on our proprietary rights can be time consuming and expensive to prosecute, and there can be no assurance that we would be successful in protecting our rights despite significant expenditures. THE LOSS OF CERTAIN KEY EMPLOYEES AND TECHNICAL PERSONNEL OR OUR INABILITY TO HIRE ADDITIONAL QUALIFIED PERSONNEL COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Our success depends in part upon the continued service of our key senior management and technical personnel. Such personnel are employed at-will and may leave Compuware at any time. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial and sales personnel. The market for professional services and software products personnel has historically been, and we expect that it will continue to be, intensely competitive. There can be no assurance that 18 we will continue to be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. The loss of certain key employees or our inability to attract and retain other qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. OUR QUARTERLY FINANCIAL RESULTS VARY AND MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY A NUMBER OF UNPREDICTABLE FACTORS. We typically do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders, and revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked in the quarter. A significant amount of our transactions are completed during the final weeks and days of the quarter, and therefore we generally do not know whether revenues or earnings will have met expectations until shortly after the end of the quarter. Our customers license our products under varying structures some of which require revenues to be deferred or recognized ratably over time. Changes in the mix of customer agreements could affect revenue in a quarter. Any significant shortfall in revenues or earnings or lowered expectations could cause our common stock price to decline. Investors should not rely on the results of prior periods or on historical seasonality in license revenue as an indication of our future performance. Our operating expense levels are relatively fixed and are based, in part, on our expectations of future revenue. If we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we will not be able to reduce our operating expenses for that quarter proportionately in response. Therefore, net income may be disproportionately affected by a fluctuation in revenue. MAINTENANCE REVENUE COULD DECLINE. Maintenance revenues have increased in recent years as a result of currency fluctuations and the continuing growth in the base of installed products and the processing capacity on which they run. Maintenance fees increase as we sell new products or additional capacity to customers. Declines in our license bookings, increased customer cancellations or currency fluctuations could lead to declines in our maintenance revenues. UNANTICIPATED CHANGES IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR EFFECTIVE TAX RATES, OR EXPOSURE TO ADDITIONAL INCOME TAX LIABILITIES, COULD AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. One of the components that needs to be evaluated is the realization of our deferred tax assets. We must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. Changes in estimates of projected future operating results or in assumptions regarding our ability to generate future taxable income could result in significant increases to our valuation allowance and tax expense which would reduce net income. In addition, we recognize reserves for uncertain tax positions through tax expense for estimated exposures related to our current tax positions. We evaluate the need for reserves for uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and any change in the amount will be recorded in our results of operations, as appropriate. It could take several years to resolve certain of these reserves for uncertain tax positions. We are also subject to routine corporate income tax audits in these jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that are likely to result from the examination of our corporate tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of these examinations could be materially different from the amounts included in the provision for income taxes and result in changes to tax expense. 19 OUR STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS MAY BE SUSPENDED OR TERMINATED AT ANY TIME, WHICH MAY RESULT IN A DECREASE IN OUR STOCK PRICE. We have repurchased shares of our common stock in the market during the past several years and currently repurchase shares under an arrangement pursuant to which management is permitted to determine the amount and timing of repurchases in its discretion subject to an overall limit. Our ability and willingness to repurchase shares is subject to, among other things, the availability of cash resources and credit at rates and upon terms we believe are prudent. Stock market conditions, the market value of our common stock and other factors may also make it imprudent for us from time to time to engage in repurchase activity. There can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase shares at historic levels or at all. If our repurchase program is curtailed, our stock price may fall. IF THE FAIR VALUE OF OUR LONG-LIVED ASSETS DETERIORATED BELOW THEIR CARRYING VALUE, RECOGNITION OF AN IMPAIRMENT LOSS WOULD BE REQUIRED, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill, acquired product rights and other intangible assets, whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that these assets might be impaired or periodically as required by generally accepted accounting principles. In the continuing process of evaluating the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets, there is the possibility that we could identify a substantial impairment, which could adversely affect our financial results. ACTS OF TERRORISM, ACTS OF WAR AND OTHER UNFORESEEN EVENTS MAY CAUSE DAMAGE OR DISRUPTION TO US OR OUR CUSTOMERS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OPERATING RESULTS. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks and the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may have negative and significant effects, such as imposition of increased security measures, changes in applicable laws, market disruptions and job losses. Such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks and the national and international responses to such threats could affect the business in ways that cannot be predicted. The effect of any of these events or threats could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION, BYLAWS AND RIGHTS AGREEMENT AS WELL AS CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF MICHIGAN LAW MAY HAVE AN ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECT. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, Michigan law and the Rights Agreement, dated October 25, 2000, as amended, between Compuware Corporation and Equiserve Trust Company, N.A. (now known as Computershare Trust Company N.A.), as rights agent, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Compuware, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to shareholders. The combination of these provisions inhibits a non-negotiated acquisition, merger or other business combination involving Compuware, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 20 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 