ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for the Company and could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Company’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. For example, further deterioration in local economic conditions in the Company’s markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan losses. The Company may also face the following risks in connection with these events: • Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of the Company’s loan portfolios, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business. • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. • The processes the Company uses to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • The Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • The Company expects to face increased regulation of its industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. As the these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition. The Company and its subsidiary business are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly 12 Table of Contents sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent the Company requires such dividends in the future, may affect the Company’s ability to pay its obligations and pay dividends. The Company is a separate legal entity from the Bank and its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. The Company currently depends on the Bank’s cash and liquidity as well as dividends to pay the Company’s operating expenses and dividends to shareholders. No assurance can be made that in the future the Bank will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends and that the Company will not require dividends from the Bank to satisfy the Company’s obligations. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the OCC, the Bank’s primary regulator, could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy the Company’s obligations or is otherwise unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service its obligations as they become due, including payments required to be made to the FCBI Capital Trust, a business trust subsidiary of the Company, or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The Company is subject to restrictions on its ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase its shares as a result of its participation in the Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program. On November 21, 2008, the Company issued to the Treasury for aggregate consideration of $41.50 million (i) 41,500 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and (ii) a Warrant to purchase 176,546 shares of the Company’s Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of its shares is restricted. Specifically, the Company may not declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if it is in arrears on the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. Further, the Company may not increase the dividends on its Common Stock above the amount of the last quarter cash dividend per share declared prior to October 13, 2009, which was $0.28 per share, without the Treasury’s approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. The Company’s ability to repurchase its shares is also restricted under the terms of the Purchase Agreement. The Treasury’s consent generally is required for the Company to make any stock repurchases until the third anniversary of the investment by the Treasury unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if the Company is in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock dividends. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Bank’s operating results. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolution, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio, and industry information. Also included in management’s estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the 13 Table of Contents outcome of which are uncertain. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond the Bank’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Bank’s loans and allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that the Bank’s allowance for loan losses is adequate to provide for probable losses, we cannot assure you that we will not need to increase the Bank’s allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company’s earnings and profitability. The Company’s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown, could hurt the Company’s business. The Company’s business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within the Company’s geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business: • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for the Company’s products and services may decline; and • collateral for loans made by the Company may decline in value, in turn reducing a client’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the Company’s loans held for investment. The declining real estate market could impact the Company’s business. The Company’s business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee and the surrounding region. A continued downturn in this regional real estate market could hurt the Company’s business because of the geographic concentration within this regional area. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, the collateral for the Company’s loans will provide less security. As a result, the Company’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The Company’s level of credit risk is increasing due to its focus on commercial lending, and the concentration on small businesses and middle market customers with heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans generally are considered riskier than single-family residential loans because they have larger balances to a single borrower or group of related borrowers. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans involve risks because the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans typically depends primarily on the successful operation of the businesses or the properties securing the loans. Most of the Bank’s commercial business loans are made to small business or middle market customers who may have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made or acquired by the Company in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. The Bank may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Bank seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in the Bank’s loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although the Bank believes that its underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, the Bank may incur losses on loans that meet its underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the Bank’s allowance for loan losses. 14 Table of Contents The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect them. The Company and its subsidiaries’ operations are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by federal and state governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of the Company’s operations. Banking regulations governing the Company’s operations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. These laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, that may be adopted in the future, could make compliance more difficult or expensive, restrict the Company’s ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by the Bank and otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or prospects. On October 3, 2008, the EESA was signed into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury was granted the authority to take a range of actions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets and has proposed several programs, including the purchase by the Treasury of certain troubled assets from financial institutions and the direct purchase by the Treasury of equity of financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the foregoing or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of its Common Stock. In addition, current initiatives of President Obama’s Administration and the possible enactment of recently proposed bankruptcy legislation may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is likely to face increased regulation and supervision as a result of the existing financial crisis, and there may be additional requirements and conditions imposed on the Company as a result of its participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. The affects of such recently enacted, and proposed, legislation and regulatory programs on the Company cannot reliably be determined at this time. The Company faces strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by the Company and its subsidiaries, which could hurt the Company’s business. The Company’s business operations are centered primarily in Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee and the surrounding region. Increased competition within this region may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that we offer. These competitors include other savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the Bank’s competitors include other state and national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of 15 Table of Contents larger clients. These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than the Company, may be able to offer the same loan products and services that the Company offers at more competitive rates and prices. If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking clients, the Company may be unable to continue the Bank’s loan and deposit growth and the Company’s business, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. Potential Acquisitions May Disrupt the Company’s Business and Dilute Stockholder Value The Company may seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company. • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company. • Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company. • Potential disruption to the Company’s business. • Potential diversion of the Company’s management’s time and attention. • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. • Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. The Company regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company completed its acquisition of Coddle Creek Financial Corp., the holding company for Mooresville Savings Bank, Inc., SSB, located in Mooresville, North Carolina. In addition, the Company’s wholly owned insurance subsidiary, GreenPoint, acquired Carr & Hyde Insurance, based in Warrenton, Virginia, among other agencies. Details of these transactions are presented in Note 2 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. The Company may lose members of our management team due to compensation restrictions The Company’s ability to retain key officers and employees may be negatively impacted by recent legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. On February 17, 2009, the ARRA was signed into law. While the Treasury must promulgate regulations to implement the restrictions and standards set forth in the new law, the ARRA, among other things, significantly expands the executive compensation restrictions previously imposed by the EESA. Such restrictions apply to any entity that has received or will receive financial assistance under the TARP, and will generally continue to apply for as long as any obligation arising from financial assistance provided under TARP, including preferred stock issued under the Capital Purchase Program, remains outstanding. As a result of the Company’s participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the restrictions and standards set forth in the ARRA are applicable to the Company. Such restrictions and standards may impact management’s ability to retain key officers and employees as well as the Company’s ability to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations as the Company under the ARRA. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. The Company has no unresolved staff comments as of the filing date of this 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 