ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company’s Common Stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of the Company’s Common Stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The current economic environment poses significant challenges for the Company and could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. economy was in recession from December 2007 through June 2009. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U. S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have improved, certain sectors, such as real estate and manufacturing, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Company’s borrowers or its customers, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, local governments and many businesses are still experiencing difficulty due to lower consumer spending and decreased liquidity in the credit markets. Deterioration in local economic conditions, particularly within the Company’s geographic regions and markets, could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan losses. The Company may also face the following risks in connection with these events: • Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in deterioration in credit quality of the Company’s loan portfolios, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business. • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. • The processes the Company uses to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • The Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • The Company expects to face increased regulation of its industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase its costs, limit its ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. As the above conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents The Company and its subsidiary business are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Bank’s operating results. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Bank to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolution, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio, and industry information. Also included in management’s estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond the Bank’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Bank’s loans and allowance for loan losses. Although the Company believes that the Bank’s allowance for loan losses is adequate to provide for probable losses, there are no assurances that future increases in the allowance for loan losses will not be needed or that regulators will not require the Bank to increase its allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company’s earnings and profitability. The Company has experienced increases in the levels of non-performing assets in recent periods. The Company’s total non-performing assets totaled $31.00 million at December 31, 2011, $29.65 million at December 31, 2010, and $23.50 million at December 31, 2009. The Company had $9.32 million of net loan charge-offs for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $12.55 million and $9.31 million in net loan charge-offs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company’s provision for loan losses was $9.05 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, $14.76 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and $15.80 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2011, the ratios of the Company’s allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans and to total loans outstanding were 104.5% and 1.88%, respectively. Additional increases in the Company’s non-performing assets or loan charge-offs may require an increase to the allowance for loan losses, which would have an adverse effect upon the Company’s future results of operations. The declining real estate market could impact the Company’s business. The Company’s business activities are conducted in Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee and the surrounding regions. Over the past several years, the real estate market in these regions experienced declines with falling home prices and increased foreclosures. As a result of the Company’s elevated net charge-offs during this period and in recognition of the continued deterioration in the real estate market and the potential for further increases in non-performing assets, the Company increased its provision for loan losses over historical levels during 2009, 2010, and 2011. A continued downturn in this regional real estate market could hurt the Company’s business because its operations are concentrated within this geographic area and the vast majority of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate. If there is a further decline in real estate values, the collateral for the Company’s loans will provide less security. As a result, the Company’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and it will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, recent weakness in the secondary market for residential lending could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could adversely affect the value of collateral securing mortgage loans, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, and 14 Table of Contents financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could materially and adversely affect the Company. The Company’s level of credit risk may increase due to its focus on commercial lending and the concentration on small businesses and middle market customers with significant vulnerability to economic conditions. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans generally are considered riskier than single family residential loans because they have larger balances to a single borrower or group of related borrowers. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans involve risks because the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans typically depends primarily on the successful operation of the businesses or the properties securing the loans. Most of the Company’s commercial business loans are made to small business or middle market customers who may have a significant vulnerability to economic conditions. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made or acquired by the Company in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s largest outstanding commercial business loan and largest outstanding commercial real estate loan amounted to $6.18 million and $7.30 million, respectively. At such date, the Company’s commercial business loans amounted to $93.31 million, or 6.68% of the Company’s total loan portfolio, and the Company’s commercial real estate loans amounted to $556.96 million, or 39.90% of the Company’s total loan portfolio. In addition to commercial real estate and commercial business loans, the Company holds a portfolio of commercial construction loans. Construction loans generally have a higher risk of loss primarily due to the critical nature of the initial estimates of a property’s value upon completion of construction compared with the estimated costs, including interest, of construction as well as other assumptions. If the estimates upon which construction loans are made prove to be inaccurate, the Company may be confronted with projects that, upon completion, have values which are below the loan amounts. While the Company is not aware of any specific, material impediments impacting any of its builder/developer borrowers at this time, there continues to be nationwide reports of significant problems which have adversely affected many property developers and builders as well as the institutions that have provided those loans. If significant numbers of the builder/developers to which the Company has extended construction loans experience the type of difficulties that are being reported, it could have adverse consequences upon future results of operations. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s largest outstanding commercial construction loan amounted to $5.74 million. At such date, the Company’s commercial construction loans amounted to $61.77 million, or 4.42% of the Company’s total loan portfolio. The Bank may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Bank seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in the Bank’s loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although the Bank believes that its underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, the Bank may incur losses on loans that meet its underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the Bank’s allowance for loan losses. Changes in the fair value of the Company’s securities may reduce its stockholders’ equity and net income. At December 31, 2011, $482.43 million of the Company’s securities were classified as available-for-sale. At such date, the aggregate unrealized losses on the Company’s available-for-sale securities totaled $21.74 million. The Company increases or decreases stockholders’ equity by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (the difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of the Company’s available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax effect, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold and there are no credit impairments, the decrease will be recovered at the maturity of the securities. In the case of equity securities which have no stated maturity, the declines in fair value may or may not be recovered over time. The Company conducts periodic reviews and evaluations of its entire securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which the Company considered in its analysis of debt securities include, but are not limited to, intent to sell the security, evidence available to determine if it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the securities before recovery of the amortized cost, and probable credit losses. Probable credit losses are evaluated based upon, but are not limited to: the present value of future cash flows, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security below its amortized cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, the payment structure of the security, failure of the security to make scheduled interest or principal payments, and changes to the 15 Table of Contents rating of the security by rating agencies. The Company generally views changes in fair value for debt securities caused by changes in interest rates as temporary, which is consistent with the Company’s experience. If the Company deems such decline to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of noninterest income. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charges of $2.29 million on its debt securities portfolio. Factors that the Company considers in its analysis of equity securities include, but are not limited to: intent to sell the security before recovery of the cost, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security below its cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized no OTTI charges on its equity securities portfolio. The Company continues to monitor the fair value of its entire securities portfolio as part of its ongoing OTTI evaluation process. No assurance can be given that the Company will not need to recognize OTTI charges related to securities in the future. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may have a material effect on the Company’s operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. The key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that are anticipated to affect the Company’s operations include: • changes to regulatory capital requirements; • creation of new government regulatory agencies, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; • limitation on federal preemption; • changes in insured depository institution regulations and assessments; and • mortgage loan origination and risk retention. Many of the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to the rulemaking process at various regulatory agencies. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on the Company’s operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require the Company to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements or with any future changes in laws or regulations may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect them. The Company and its subsidiaries’ operations are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by federal and state governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of the Company’s operations. Banking regulations governing the Company’s operations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. These laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations that may be adopted in the future, could make compliance more difficult or expensive, restrict the Company’s ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by the Bank and otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or prospects. The financial services industry is likely to face increased regulation and supervision as a result of the recent financial crisis. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. The affects of such recently enacted, and proposed, legislation and regulatory programs on the Company cannot reliably be determined at this time. 16 Table of Contents The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent the Company requires such dividends in the future, may affect the Company’s ability to pay its obligations and pay dividends. The Company is a separate legal entity from the Bank and its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. The Company currently depends on the Bank’s cash and liquidity as well as dividends from the Bank to pay the Company’s operating expenses and dividends to its stockholders. No assurance can be made that in the future the Bank will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends and that the Company will not require dividends from the Bank to satisfy the Company’s obligations. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the Federal Reserve Board or the Virginia Bureau, the Bank’s primary regulators, could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy the Company’s obligations or is otherwise unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service its obligations as they become due, including payments required to be made to the FCBI Capital Trust, a business trust subsidiary of the Company, or pay dividends on the Company’s Common Stock or Series A Preferred Stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The Company faces strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by the Company and its subsidiaries, which could hurt the Company’s business. The Company’s business operations are centered primarily in Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, and Tennessee. Increased competition within these regions may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that the Bank offers. These competitors include other savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the Bank’s competitors include other state and national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than the Company, may be able to offer the same loan products and services that the Company offers at more competitive rates and prices. If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking clients, the Company may be unable to continue the Bank’s loan and deposit growth and the Company’s business, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected. Potential acquisitions may disrupt the Company’s business and dilute stockholder value. The Company may seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company. • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company. • Difficulty, expense, and delays of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company. • Potential disruption to the Company’s business. • Potential diversion of the Company’s management’s time and attention. • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. • Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. • Unexpected costs and delays. • Risks that the acquired target company does not perform consistent with the Company’s growth and profitability expectations. • Risks associated with entering new markets or product areas where the Company has limited experience. • Risks that growth will strain the Company’s infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures. • Potential short-term decreases in profitability. 17 Table of Contents The Company regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving the payment of cash or the issuance of debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some initial dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may engage in FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to its business. The Company may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions, which present the risks of acquisitions discussed above, as well as some risks specific to these transactions. Because FDIC-assisted acquisitions provide for limited diligence and negotiation of terms, these transactions may require additional resources and time, including servicing acquired problem loans and costs related to integration of personnel and operating systems, and the establishment of processes to service acquired assets. Such transactions may also require the Company to raise additional capital, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders. If the Company is unable to manage these risks, FDIC-assisted acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available in the future. The Company expects that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with it to acquire financial services businesses. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that the Company believes are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If the Company fails to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, it will not be able to consummate an acquisition that it believes is in its best interests. Among other things, the Company’s regulators consider the Company’s capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to the Company’s earnings and stockholders’ equity per share of the Company’s Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock. The Company’s goodwill may be determined to be impaired. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying amount of the Company’s goodwill was $83.06 million. The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary. Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are to be used as the basis for measuring impairment, when available. Other acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. If the Company determines that the carrying amount of its goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, the Company would be required to write-down the value of the goodwill on its balance sheet. This, in turn, would result in a charge against earnings and, thus, a reduction in the Company’s stockholders’ equity and certain related capital measures. During 2011, the Company recognized a charge of $1.24 million to write-down the value of goodwill at its insurance agency subsidiary. The Company may lose members of its management team and have difficulty attracting skilled personnel. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire such people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of key personnel of the Company could have a material adverse impact on its business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. In addition, recent regulatory proposals and guidance relating to compensation may negatively impact the Company’s ability to retain and attract skilled personnel. An increase in FDIC deposit insurance premiums could adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Market developments have significantly depleted the DIF of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC revised its assessment rates which raised deposit premiums for certain insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required. The Company is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, the FDIC may increase the deposit insurance assessment rates. Any future assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect the Company’s earnings and could have a material adverse effect on the value of its Common Stock. 18 Table of Contents The Company may seek to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. The Company may seek to raise additional capital in the future to provide it with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet its commitments, business needs, and growth objectives, particularly if its asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of its control, and its financial performance. Economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase the Company’s cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the FRB. Any occurrence that may limit the Company’s access to the capital markets may adversely affect the Company’s capital costs and its ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. Accordingly, the Company cannot provide any assurance that additional capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair the Company’s ability to fund operations and jeopardize its financial condition. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, equity and debt offerings and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities, or on terms attractive to the Company, could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a reduction in its credit ratings, if any, an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of its business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against the Company, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence. The Company’s access to liquidity sources could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to it, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by future failures of financial institutions and the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. The Company has exposure to different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. In certain of these transactions, the Company is required to post collateral to secure the obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, the Company may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. In addition, many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by the Company’s counterparty or client. In addition, the credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any losses resulting from the Company’s routine funding transactions may materially and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Risks Associated with the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s Common Stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for holders of the Company’s Common Stock to resell when desired. The Company’s Common Stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. • Recommendations by securities analysts. • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company. • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors. • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors. • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors. • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. • Changes in government regulations. • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company’s Common Stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The trading volume in the Company’s Common Stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Although the Company’s Common Stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ, the trading volume in its Common Stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company’s Common Stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s Common Stock, significant sales of the Company’s Common Stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company’s stock price to fall. The Company may not continue to pay dividends on its Common Stock in the future. The Company’s Common Stockholders are only entitled to receive such dividends the Company’s board of directors declares out of funds legally available for such payments. Although the Company has historically declared cash dividends on its Common Stock, it is not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate its Common Stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. Also, the Company is a financial holding company and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board regarding capital adequacy and dividends. An investment in the Company’s Common Stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s Common Stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s Common Stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, holders of the Company’s Common Stock could lose some or all of their investment. Certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Company’s shareholders. These provisions effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. 20 Table of Contents The Company issued Series A Preferred Stock, which ranks senior to its Common Stock. The Company issued 18,921 shares of Series A Preferred Stock in May 2011. The Series A Preferred Stock ranks senior to shares of the Company’s Common Stock. As a result, the Company must make dividend payments on its Series A Preferred Stock before any dividends can be paid on the Company’s Common Stock and, in the event of its bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on the Company’s Common Stock. If the Company does not remain current in the payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, no dividends may be paid on its Common Stock. In addition, the dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce any net income available to holders of Common Stock and earnings per common share. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has no unresolved staff comments as of the filing date of this 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 