ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe may affect us are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. If we are not able to grow our APM revenue at anticipated levels, we may fail to achieve our forecasted financial results and we may fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors which could cause our stock price to decline. The success of our APM business segment is dependent on continued revenue growth of our on-premise hosted software solutions. The APM market is currently growing as companies continue to invest in applications to take advantage of the proliferation of mobile devices, cloud computing and the large amounts of data being collected by applications referred to as Big Data. Our APM revenue has grown as a result of this spending. If customer investment in applications and supporting application performance management solutions does not continue to grow or declines, or we are unable to deliver solutions desired by customers, the demand for our APM solutions may decline, and we may not be able to grow revenue or revenue may decline as a result. If this occurs it could have a material impact on our results of operations. Additionally, we continue to invest in new derivative offerings of our on-premise and SaaS offerings. It is difficult to estimate customer acceptance of these new offerings and how these new offerings will affect sales of our existing offerings. If these new offerings are not in demand by our customers or cause a reduction in the demand for our existing offerings, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Also, we have competitors with substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we have. As a result, these competitors may be more effective in developing offerings that customers purchase. If we are less successful than our competitors in creating and maturing offerings that customers purchase, our results of operations could be negatively affected. A substantial portion of our Mainframe segment revenue is dependent on our customers’ continued use of IBM and IBM-compatible products. A substantial portion of our revenue from software solutions is generated from products designed for use with IBM and IBM-compatible mainframe operating systems. As a result, much of our revenue from software solutions is dependent on our customers’ continued use of these systems. In addition, because our products operate in conjunction with IBM operating systems software, changes to IBM’s mainframe operating systems may require us to adapt our products to these changes. IBM also provides competing products designed for use with their mainframe operating systems. A decline in our customers’ use of IBM and IBM-compatible mainframe operating systems, our inability to keep our products current with changes to IBM’s mainframe operating systems on a timely basis, or the loss of market share to IBM’s competing products could have a material adverse effect on our license and maintenance revenue in this segment, negatively impacting our results of operations and cash flow. 14 Table of Contents Our product revenue is dependent on the acceptance of our pricing structure for our software solutions. The pricing of our software licenses, maintenance services and hosted software is under constant pressure from customers and competitive vendors that can negatively impact our product revenue. These competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Maintenance revenue could continue to decline. Our maintenance revenue has been negatively affected by cancellations and reduced pricing for Mainframe maintenance renewals and the decline in new Mainframe maintenance arrangements. If we are unable to increase new product sales and maintenance contract renewals to outpace the combined impact of maintenance cancellations, reduced pricing for maintenance renewals and currency fluctuations, our maintenance revenues will decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Our primary source of profitability is from our Mainframe segment. As revenues in this segment decline, our profitability will decline unless we are able to significantly increase margins in our APM segment. Our Mainframe segment generates significantly higher contribution margins than our APM and applications services segments. We expect our future revenue growth to come primarily from APM as we intend to have a tax free distribution of our application services segment. Declines in Mainframe revenue and contribution margin prior to the APM segment generating additional significant improvements in its contribution margin will have a further negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow. Changes in the financial services industry could have a negative impact on our revenue and margins. Approximately 20% of our Mainframe revenue is generated from customers in the financial services industry. Future changes in the financial services industry, including mergers, restructurings or failures, could have a material adverse effect on our Mainframe license and maintenance revenue, negatively impacting our results of operations and cash flow. We may fail to achieve our forecasted financial results due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other unpredictable factors. If we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price could decline substantially. Our revenues, particularly our software license revenues, are difficult to forecast. Software license revenues in any quarter are dependent on orders booked in the quarter. Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate the sales forecast. Our sales forecast estimates could prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time as a significant amount of our transactions are completed during the final weeks and days of the quarter. Therefore, we generally do not know whether revenues or earnings will have met expectations until after the end of the quarter. Also, the manner in which our customers license our products can cause revenues to be deferred or recognized ratably over time. Changes in the mix of customer agreements could adversely affect our revenues. As a result, our actual financial results can vary substantially from our forecasted results. In addition, investors should not rely on the results of prior periods or on historical seasonality in license revenue as an indication of our future performance. Our operating expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term and are based, in part, on our expectations of future revenue. If we have unanticipated lower sales in any given quarter, we will not be able to reduce our operating expenses for that quarter proportionately in response. Therefore, net income may be disproportionately affected by a fluctuation in revenue. 15 Table of Contents Any significant shortfall in revenues or earnings, or lowered expectations could cause our common stock price to decline. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of shareholders or others. There can be no assurance that a shareholder or another third party will not make an unsolicited takeover proposal in the future or take other action to acquire control of Compuware. Considering and responding to such proposals is likely to result in significant additional costs to Compuware, and future acquisition proposals, other shareholder actions to acquire control and the litigation that often accompanies them, if any, are likely to be costly and time-consuming and may disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing our strategic plan. Additionally, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of shareholder activism or potential changes to the composition of the Board of Directors may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of the business or other instability which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. If customers choose to delay, defer or reduce transactions with us or do business with our competitors instead of us because of any such issues, then our revenue, earnings and operating cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we believe that the future trading price of our common stock may be volatile based on various factors, including uncertainty associated with potential offers to acquire Compuware. Our planned distribution of all or a substantial part of our remaining shares of common stock in Covisint Corporation, which we refer to as the Tax-Free Distribution, could subject us and our shareholders to significant tax liability and could affect our ability to enter into certain transactions in the future. We have announced plans to distribute our shares of Covisint common stock within one year of the October 2013 offering of Covisint’s common stock to the public. We sought and have received a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that, among other things, the Tax-Free Distribution will qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code or the Code. One requirement for the Tax-Free Distribution to be a tax-free distribution is that we maintain at least 80% ownership in Covisint until the distribution. We currently own approximately 80.03% of Covisint’s outstanding shares. Certain holders of options to purchase Covisint common stock from Covisint have agreed not to exercise their options for a specified period of time after the IPO. These agreements restrict exercise of such options only through June 23, 2014. We have agreed with Covisint to allow us to purchase additional shares of Covisint prior to any Covisint equity transaction (including, without limitation, the exercise of stock options to purchase Covisint common stock from Covisint) to ensure that we maintain at least 80% ownership in Covisint up to the Tax-Free Distribution. In addition, Covisint has granted the holders of options exercisable in calendar 2014 tandem stock appreciation rights that permit such holders to effectively elect cash settlement of those options. These tandem stock appreciation rights are first exercisable after the agreements restricting exercises of options expire in June 2014. The related options will expire upon exercise of the tandem stock appreciation rights. We have agreed with Covisint to purchase additional Covisint shares during fiscal 2015 to fund the cash settlement of the tandem stock appreciation rights. Any such purchases of Covisint common stock may result in significant cash outlays from us to Covisint, which could have a negative impact on our available cash and equity before or subsequent to a Tax-Free Distribution. 16 Table of Contents In May 2014, we submitted to the IRS a request for a supplemental private letter ruling confirming the tax-free status of the Tax-Free Distribution, taking into account (i) the award and potential exercise of SARs and our expected acquisition of additional shares of Covisint’s common stock under our agreements with Covisint or in open-market purchases, and (ii) our possible retention of a minor portion of Covisint’s common stock for sale following the Tax-Free Distribution. There can be no assurance that we will receive the requested ruling. If we do not receive the supplemental ruling in the form requested, we may determine not to proceed with the distribution of the Covisint shares. In addition, the private letter rulings and the tax opinion that we expect to receive from counsel will rely on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of Covisint’s business, and neither the private letter rulings nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. Moreover, the private letter rulings will not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution will qualify as a tax-free transaction. Notwithstanding the private letter rulings and opinion, the IRS could subsequently determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes if, among other reasons, it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter rulings or the private letter rulings or in the request for the private letter rulings were false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter rulings. If the Tax-Free Distribution fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction, in general, we would be subject to tax as if we had sold our shares of Covisint common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our shareholders who receive shares of Covisint common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. Any additional tax we are required to pay in such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Even if the Tax-Free Distribution would otherwise qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, such distribution may be taxable to us if Section 355(d) of the Code or Section 355(e) of the Code applies to the distribution. Section 355(d) of the Code may apply to the distribution if any person purchases 50% or more of our stock, by vote or value, during the five-year period ending on the date of any distribution of our shares of Covisint to our shareholders. Section 355(e) of the Code will apply to the distribution if 50% or more of our stock or Covisint’s stock, by vote or value, is acquired by one or more persons, other than the holders of our stock who received Covisint stock in the distribution, acting pursuant to a plan or a series of related transactions that includes the distribution. Any shares of our stock or Covisint stock acquired directly or indirectly within two years before or after the Tax-Free Distribution generally are presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption can be rebutted. In the event Section 355(d) or (e) of the Code is implicated by a proposed acquisition of our stock or Covisint’s stock, such an acquisition in connection with the Tax-Free Distribution could cause such distribution to be fully taxable to us and require us to pay a material amount of income taxes without any related cash received with which to pay the resulting tax liability. This substantial potential liability may discourage offers to acquire Compuware and/or Covisint from being made or may result in any such offer being discounted to take into account the risk of such tax liability. In addition, during this timeframe, the potential tax liability on account of these Code provisions could affect our ability to issue stock to complete acquisitions, expand our product offerings, develop new technology or obtain additional debt financing and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Substantial uncertainty exists on the scope of Section 355(e) of the Code, and we or Covisint may have undertaken, may contemplate undertaking or may otherwise undertake in the future transactions that may cause Section 355(e) of the Code to apply to the distribution notwithstanding our desire or intent to avoid application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Accordingly, we cannot provide you any assurance that we will not have tax-related obligations related to the application of Section 355(e) of the Code to the Tax-Free Distribution. Another requirement for the Tax-Free Distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction is that Compuware either distribute (i) all of its Covisint common stock held immediately before the Tax-Free Distribution or (ii) an amount constituting at least 80% of Covisint’s outstanding shares of common stock and establish to the satisfaction of the IRS that the retention of Covisint common stock is not in pursuance of a plan having as one of its principal purposes the avoidance of federal income tax. In the event that Compuware’s ownership percentage of Covisint’s common stock exceeds 80%, Compuware may determine to retain some or all of the excess shares, which would later be sold to raise cash for use in Compuware’s business operations. As noted above, Compuware is requesting a ruling from the IRS with respect to its possible retention of Covisint shares in the supplemental private letter ruling. If Compuware receives a positive ruling from the IRS and determines to retain shares of Covisint common stock for future sale, then Compuware shareholders would receive fewer Covisint shares in the Tax-Free Distribution than they would have received if Compuware had distributed all of its Covisint shares. Our announced evaluation of a strategic separation of our APM and Mainframe businesses may take multiple forms, may not produce the intended benefits to shareholders or may not result in a separation of the businesses. In May 2014, we announced that we are exploring the strategic separation of our APM and Mainframe businesses. We are early in the process of determining the feasibility of such a separation, the expected effects on these businesses, alternative structures and whether such separation would create shareholder value. As a result, there can be no assurance that the review will result in a strategic separation or as to the form such a separation would take, and there is no specific timetable for completing this review or the separation itself. If it does not occur or is significantly delayed, our stock price may be negatively affected. If we proceed with a separation, the separation is subject to a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that any spin-off or other disposition by the Company of its interest in one of these businesses is not able to be implemented as intended, the risk that the separation does not achieve the expected benefits for the Company and its shareholders, the risk that the separation results in an adverse impact on the Company’s remaining business, the risk of adverse tax consequences for the Company and its shareholders, the risk that the costs and disruptions arising out of any such separation will outweigh the benefits, and the risk of potential unanticipated adverse customer impact. The occurrence of any of these contingencies may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and stock price. Substantial changes in our operations, including business segregations and divestitures, may disrupt our business, divert the attention of our management or cause us to incur additional costs and may result in financial results that are worse than expected. During fiscal 2014, we divested our professional services business and a portion of our software portfolio, completed the initial public offering of approximately 20% of our Covisint business and reaffirmed our intention to divest all or a substantial part of our remaining interest in Covisint stock through a Tax-Free Distribution. As a part of the 2014 divestiture, we continue to provide certain support for the divested businesses under a transition services agreement. Additionally, in May 2014, we announced that we would begin exploring a separation of the APM and Mainframe business segments. These activities, or similar activities in the future, could disrupt our business, divert the attention of management or cause us to incur additional costs to maintain appropriate levels of service for our remaining business segments, any of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. The loss of certain key employees and technical personnel or our inability to hire additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends in part upon the continued service of our key senior management and technical personnel. Such personnel are employed at-will and may leave Compuware at any time. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial and sales personnel. The market for technical personnel has historically been, and we expect that it will continue to be, intensely competitive. These market factors and changes to our business portfolio may cause additional uncertainties among existing personnel or candidates for certain positions. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. The loss of certain key employees or our inability to attract and retain other qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents We may not achieve the results we expect from our expense reduction program, the timing could be delayed, or the restructuring charges necessary to achieve the targeted expense reductions could be higher than expected, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In fiscal 2013, we announced and began to implement plans to reduce expenses, which included a reduction in our workforce, the elimination or reduction in size of certain office facilities and the early termination of certain operating leases. Some of the changes being implemented will require additional investments in systems and personnel to implement new systems and may result in unanticipated costs. Moreover, the timing and actual cost savings achieved from our cost rationalization initiative may vary from our announced expectations due to delays, unanticipated needs to retain a greater number of employees than expected or higher than expected costs to achieve the savings targets. Until fully implemented, there can be no assurance that our restructuring plan to reduce expenses will produce the cost savings we anticipate or in the time frame we expect. Any negative variance in the amount or timing of the cost savings or in the cost to achieve our savings targets could cause our results of operations to be worse than anticipated or require additional restructuring charges. Defects or disruptions in our hosted software or application services networks or interruptions or delays in service would impair the delivery of our on-demand service and could diminish demand for our services and subject us to substantial liability. Defects in our hosted software network or our application services network could result in service disruptions for our customers. Our network performance and service levels could be disrupted by numerous events, including natural disasters and power losses. We might inadvertently operate or misuse the system in ways that could cause a service disruption for some or all of our customers. We might have insufficient redundancy or server capacity to address any such disruption, which could result in interruptions in our services or degradations of our service levels. Our customers might use our hosted software in ways that cause a service disruption for other customers. These defects or disruptions could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. The market for application services is highly competitive with emerging competitors. As the market matures, competition may increase and could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Several of our competitors in the application services market have substantially greater financial, marketing, recruiting and training resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be more efficient and effective at achieving the following principal competitive factors affecting the market for application services: security; scalability; speed of implementation; ability to enable users to maintain regulatory compliance; features and functionality; ability to meet customer service level requirements; and price. If we are less successful at achieving one or more of these factors than our competitors, we may lose market share which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Economic uncertainties or slowdowns may reduce demand for our offerings, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Our revenues and profitability depend on the overall demand for our software products, hosted software and application services. Economic uncertainties over the last few years have resulted in companies reassessing their spending for technology projects. If the economies within the geographic regions in which we operate experience a slowdown or recession, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. 18 Table of Contents Future changes in the U.S. domestic automotive manufacturing business could reduce demand for our Covisint application services, which may have a material negative effect on our revenues and operating results. A substantial portion of our Covisint application services revenue has been generated from customers in the automotive industry, with General Motors Company currently Covisint’s largest customer. General Motors announced in July 2012 that it intends to significantly reduce its use of outsourced information technology services over the next three to five years. If General Motors were to terminate or significantly curtail its relationship with Covisint, it could experience a rapid decline in application services revenue and contribution margin over a relatively short period of time. In addition, negative developments in the automotive manufacturing industry generally, including restructuring, cost reduction efforts and bankruptcies, could increase the collection risk of accounts receivable from these customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our application services results of operations and margins. If the fair value of our long-lived assets deteriorated below the carrying value of these assets, recognition of an impairment loss would be required, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill, acquired product rights and other intangible assets, whenever events or circumstances occur that may indicate these assets are impaired or, periodically, as required by generally accepted accounting principles. This evaluation utilizes expectations of future revenues and profitability to estimate fair value of our reporting units. In the continuing process of evaluating the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets including goodwill, we could identify substantial impairments which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our software technology may infringe the proprietary rights of others. Our software technology is developed or enhanced internally or acquired from unrelated parties. All employees sign an agreement that states the employee was hired for his or her talent and skill rather than for any trade secrets or proprietary information of others of which he or she may have knowledge. Further, our employees execute an agreement stating that work developed for us or our clients belongs to us or our clients, respectively. During the due diligence stage of any software technology acquisition, we research and investigate the title to the software technology we would be acquiring from the seller. This investigation generally includes without limitation, litigation searches, copyright and trademark searches, review of development documents and interviews with key employees of the seller regarding development, title and ownership of the software technology being acquired. The acquisition agreement itself generally contains representations, warranties and covenants concerning the title and ownership of the software technology as well as indemnification and remedy provisions in the event the representations, warranties and covenants are breached by the seller. Although we use all reasonable efforts to ensure we do not infringe on third party intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us with respect to our current and future software technology or that any such assertion will not require us to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly litigation. Our results could be adversely affected by increased competition, pricing pressures and technological changes within the software products market. The markets for our software products are highly competitive. Several of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. The principal competitive factors affecting the market for our software products include: responsiveness to customer needs; functionality, performance and reliability of our software products in a customer’s environment; ease of use; quality of customer support; our ability to bring products to market that meet ever-changing customer requirements; vendor reputation; distribution channels; and price. A variety of external and internal events and circumstances could adversely affect our competitive capacity. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, to a great extent, upon our performance in sales, product development and customer support. To be successful in the future, we must respond promptly and effectively to our customers’ purchasing methodologies, challenges of technological change and our competitors' innovations by continually enhancing our product offerings. 19 Table of Contents We operate in an industry characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. If we fail to keep pace with technological change in our industry, such failure would have an adverse effect on our revenues. During the past several years, many new technological advancements and competing products entered the marketplace. To the extent that our current product portfolio does not meet such changing requirements, our revenues will suffer. Delays in new product introductions or less-than-anticipated market acceptance of these new products are possible and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Developers of third party products, including operating systems, databases, systems software, applications, networks, servers and computer hardware, frequently introduce new or modified products. These new or modified third party products could incorporate features which perform functions currently performed by our products or could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies’ hardware or software. While we have generally been able to adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by new or modified third party product offerings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Failure to adapt our products in a timely manner to such changes or customer decisions to forego the use of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality contained either in the hardware or other software could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. We must develop or acquire product enhancements and new products to succeed. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop product enhancements and new products that keep pace with continuing changes in technology and customer preferences. The majority of our products have been developed from acquired technology and products. We believe that our future growth lies, in part, in continuing to identify, acquire and then develop promising technologies and products. While we are continually searching for acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in identifying, acquiring and developing products and technology. If any potential acquisition opportunities are identified, there can be no assurance that we will consummate and successfully integrate any such acquisitions and there can be no assurance as to the timing or effect on our business of any such acquisitions. Our failure to develop technological improvements or to adapt our products to technological change may, over time, have a material adverse effect on our business. Acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business or divert the attention of our management and may result in financial results that are different than expected. As part of our overall strategy, we have acquired or invested in, and plan to continue to acquire or invest in, complementary companies, products, and technologies and may enter into joint ventures and strategic alliances with other companies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the combined companies; the risk that we may not be able to integrate the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the inability to retain key technical, sales and managerial personnel; the inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; the risk that revenues from acquired companies, products and technologies do not meet our expectations; and decreases in reported earnings as a result of charges for in-process research and development and amortization of acquired intangible assets. 20 Table of Contents For us to maximize the return on our investments in acquired companies, the products from these entities must be integrated with our existing solutions. These integrations can be difficult and unpredictable, especially given the complexity of software and that acquired technology is typically developed independently and designed with no regard to integration. The difficulties are compounded when the products involved are well-established because compatibility with the existing base of installed products must be preserved. Successful integration also requires coordination of different development and engineering teams. This too can be difficult and unpredictable because of possible cultural conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product integration efforts or that we will realize the expected benefits. With each of our acquisitions, we have initiated efforts to integrate the disparate cultures, employees, systems and products of these companies. Retention of key employees is critical to ensure the continued development, support, sales and marketing efforts pertaining to the acquired products. We have implemented retention programs to keep many of the key technical and sales employees of acquired companies. Nonetheless, we have lost some key employees and may lose others in the future. We are exposed to exchange rate risks on foreign currencies and to other international risks that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Approximately 40 percent of our total revenues from continuing operations are derived from foreign operations and we expect that foreign operations will continue to generate a significant percentage of our total revenues. Products and services are generally priced in the currency of the country in which they are sold. Changes in the exchange rates of foreign currencies or exchange controls may adversely affect our results of operations. The international business environment is also subject to other risks, including the need to comply with foreign and U.S. laws and the greater difficulty of managing business operations overseas. In addition, our foreign operations are affected by general economic conditions in the international markets in which we do business. A worsening of economic conditions in these markets could cause customers to delay or forego decisions to license new products or to reduce their requirements for application services. Current laws may not adequately protect our proprietary rights. We regard our software as proprietary and attempt to protect it with copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws and/or restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We have many patents and many patent applications pending. However, existing patent and copyright laws afford only limited practical protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any claims against those who infringe on our proprietary rights can be time consuming and expensive to prosecute, and there can be no assurance that we would be successful in protecting our rights despite significant expenditures. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rates, or exposure to additional income tax liabilities, could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. One item that needs to be evaluated is the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. Changes in estimates of projected future operating results or in assumptions regarding our ability to generate future taxable income could result in significant increases to our total valuation allowance and tax expense that would reduce net income. In addition, we recognize reserves for uncertain tax positions through tax expense for estimated exposures related to our current and historical tax positions. We evaluate the need for reserves for uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and any change in the amount will be recorded in our results of operations, as appropriate. It could take several years to resolve certain of these issues. We are also subject to routine corporate income tax audits in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our provision for income taxes includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that are likely to result from the examination of our corporate tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of these examinations could be materially different from the amounts included in the provision for income taxes and result in increases to tax expense. 21 Table of Contents Our stock repurchase plan and future dividend payments may be suspended or terminated at any time, or our plans to distribute our Covisint shares to shareholders or to undertake a return of capital transaction may change, any of which may result in a decrease in our stock price. We have repurchased shares of our common stock from time to time under an arrangement pursuant to which management is permitted to determine the amount and timing of repurchases in its discretion subject to an overall limit, as well as under a time-limited arrangement pursuant to which repurchases occur according to a formula without further discretion that is also subject to the overall limit and can be terminated at any time. Our ability and willingness to repurchase shares is subject to, among other things, the availability of cash resources and credit at rates and upon terms we believe are prudent. Stock market conditions, the market value of our common stock and other factors may also make it imprudent for us from time to time to engage in repurchase activity. There can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase shares at historic levels or at all. If our repurchase program is curtailed, our stock price may be negatively affected. In June 2013, we began paying quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. We have also announced our intention to distribute our shares of our Covisint subsidiary to our shareholders within 12 months after completion of Covisint’s initial public offering and to subsequently undertake a return of capital transaction for the benefit of shareholders, the form, size and timing of which are yet to be determined. The amount and size of any future cash dividend payments will be subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our current and expected results of operations, financial condition and available cash resources, the terms of the documentation relating to any indebtedness we have at the time, applicable state law and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Similarly, any distribution of some or all of our shares of Covisint, the timing of any such distribution, whether the intended return of capital transaction will occur and, if so, the form, size and timing of such transaction will be subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, such as our current and expected results of operations and financial condition, the terms of the documentation relating to any indebtedness we have at the time, applicable state law, applicable tax ramifications, our ability to improve and optimize our balance sheet, the availability of any necessary funding and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends, distribute our Covisint shares or engage in the return of capital transaction as we intend. If we do not continue to pay cash dividends, or determine not to distribute Covisint shares or engage in the return of capital transaction, our stock price may be negatively affected. Acts of terrorism, acts of war, cyber-attacks and other unforeseen events may cause damage or disruption to us or our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Natural disasters, acts of war, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks and the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may have negative and significant effects, such as imposition of increased security measures, changes in applicable laws, market disruptions and job losses. Such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist or cyber-attacks and the national and international responses to such threats could affect the business in ways that cannot be predicted. The effect of any of these events or threats could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and rights agreement as well as certain provisions of Michigan law may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, Michigan law and the Rights Agreement, dated October 25, 2000, as amended, between Compuware Corporation and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Compuware, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to shareholders. The combination of these provisions inhibits a non-negotiated acquisition, merger or other business combination involving Compuware, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 