ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RESERVES ESTABLISHED FOR FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS AND CLAIMS MAY PROVE INADEQUATE. The Company's reserves for future policy benefits and unpaid claims and claim expenses are estimates that entail various assumptions and judgments. See "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates -- Future Policy Benefits and Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses." in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a description of the most significant assumptions used in the estimation process. These estimates are subject to variability, since the factors and events affecting the ultimate liability for claims have not all taken place, and thus cannot be evaluated with certainty. Moreover, under the Company's actuarial methodologies, these estimates are subject to reevaluation based on developing trends with respect to the Company's loss experience. Such trends may emerge over longer periods of time, and changes in such trends cannot necessarily be identified or predicted at any given time by reference to current claims experience, whether favorable or unfavorable. If the Company's actual loss experience from its current or discontinued products is less favorable than the Company's assumptions or estimates, the Company's reserves could be inadequate. In such event, the Company's results of operations, in addition to its liquidity and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. THE MARKET VALUES OF THE COMPANY'S INVESTMENTS FLUCTUATE. The market values of the Company's investments vary depending on economic and market conditions, including interest rates, and such values can decline as a result of changes in such conditions. Increasing interest rates or a widening in the spread between interest rates available on U.S. Treasury securities and corporate debt, for example, will typically have an adverse impact on the market values of the fixed maturity securities in the Company's investment portfolio. If interest rates decline, the Company generally achieves a lower overall rate of return on investments of cash generated from the Company's operations. In addition, in the event that investments are called or mature in a declining interest rate environment, the Company may be unable to reinvest the proceeds in securities with comparable interest rates. The Company may also in the future be required or determine to sell certain investments, whether to meet contractual obligations to its policyholders, or otherwise, at a price and a time when the market value of such investments is less than the book value of such investments, resulting in losses to the Company. Declines in the fair value of investments that are considered in the judgment of management to be other than temporary are reported as realized investment losses. See "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates -- Investments." in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for a description of management's evaluation process. The Company has experienced and may in the future experience losses from other than temporary declines in security values. Such losses are recorded as realized investment losses in the income statement. See "Results of Operations - 2006 Compared to 2005" in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, the Company invests in certain limited partnerships and limited liability companies that invest in various financial instruments. These investments are reflected in the Company's financial statements under the equity method; accordingly, positive or negative changes in the value of the investees' financial instruments are included in net investment income. Thus, the Company's results of operations, in addition to its liquidity and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected if these entities were to experience significant losses in the values of their financial assets. THE COMPANY'S INVESTMENT STRATEGY EXPOSES THE COMPANY TO DEFAULT AND OTHER RISKS. The management of the Company's investment portfolio is an important component of the Company's profitability since a substantial portion of the Company's operating income is generated from the difference between the yield achieved on invested assets and, in the case of asset accumulation products, the interest credited on policyholder funds and, in the case of the Company's other products for which reserves are discounted, the discount rate used to calculate the related reserves. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Investments." in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for a description of the Company's investment portfolio and strategy. The Company is subject to the risk, among others, that the issuers of the fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans the Company owns will default on principal or interest payments. A major economic downturn or any of the various other factors that affect issuers' abilities to pay could result in issuer defaults. Because the Company's investments consist primarily of fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and short-term investments, such defaults could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. The Company continually monitors its investment portfolio and attempts to ensure that the risks associated with concentrations of investments in either a particular sector of the market or a single entity are limited; however, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. -19- THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL POSITION EXPOSES THE COMPANY TO INTEREST RATE RISKS. Because the Company's primary assets and liabilities are financial in nature, the Company's consolidated financial position and earnings are subject to risks resulting from changes in interest rates. The Company seeks to manage this risk through active portfolio management focusing on minimizing its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by matching its invested assets and related liabilities and by periodically adjusting the crediting rates on its annuity products. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Asset/Liability Management and Market Risk." in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The profitability of group employee benefit products for which the reserves are discounted is also affected by the difference between the yield achieved on invested assets and the discount rate used to calculate the related reserves. The Company manages this risk by seeking to adjust the prices charged for these products. THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO REDUCE ITS EXPOSURE TO RISKS DEPENDS ON THE AVAILABILITY AND COST OF REINSURANCE. The Company transfers its exposure to some risks through reinsurance ceded arrangements with other insurance and reinsurance companies. Under the Company's reinsurance ceded arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of the Company's risks under certain of its insurance policies in exchange for a specified portion of the premiums received by the Company under such policies. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had reinsurance receivables of $410.6 million and $413.1 million, respectively. The availability, amount, cost and terms of reinsurance may vary significantly based on market conditions. Any decrease in the amount of the Company's reinsurance ceded will increase the Company's risk of loss and premium income, and any increase in the cost of such reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the reinsurance amount, reduce the Company's premium income. Furthermore, the Company is subject to credit risk with respect to reinsurance. The Company's reinsurance ceded arrangements generally consist of indemnity reinsurance transactions in which the Company is liable for the transferred risks whether or not the reinsurers meet their financial obligations to the Company. Such failures could materially affect the Company's results of operations, in addition to its liquidity and financial condition. Following the terrorist events of September 11, 2001, due to various factors, higher prices and less favorable terms and conditions have been offered in the reinsurance market. These market conditions are reflected in the terms of the replacement reinsurance arrangements entered into during 2003 and remaining in effect for the Company's excess workers' compensation and long-term disability products. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Reinsurance." in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In the future, the Company's reinsurers may continue to seek price increases or other unfavorable modifications to the terms, conditions or amounts of their reinsurance coverages, although the extent of any such actions cannot currently be predicted. Also, there has been significantly reduced availability of reinsurance covering risks such as terrorist and catastrophic events. Accordingly, substantially all of the Company's coverages of this nature were discontinued during 2002, which would result in the Company bearing a higher portion of losses from such events if they occur. The Company has not been able to replace such coverages on acceptable terms due to present market conditions, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so in the future. However, under the Terrorism Act, which terminates on December 31, 2007, the federal government will pay 85% of the Company's covered losses during 2007, relating to acts of international terrorism from property and casualty products directly written by SNCC above the Company's annual deductible. See "Group Employee Benefit Products" in Item 1 - Business. The occurrence of a significant terrorist or catastrophic event could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, in addition to its liquidity and financial condition. THE INSURANCE BUSINESS IS A HEAVILY REGULATED INDUSTRY. The Company's insurance subsidiaries, like other insurance companies, are highly regulated by state insurance authorities in the states in which they are domiciled and the other states in which they conduct business. Such regulations, among other things, limit the amount of dividends and other payments that can be made by such subsidiaries without prior regulatory approval and impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments such subsidiaries may have. These regulations also affect many other aspects of the Company's insurance subsidiaries' businesses, including, for example, RBC requirements, various reserve requirements, the terms, conditions and manner of sale and marketing of insurance products, claims-handling practices and the form and content of required financial statements. These regulations are intended to protect policyholders rather than investors. The ability of the Company's insurance subsidiaries to continue to conduct their businesses is dependent upon the maintenance of their licenses in these various states. In April 2004, the New York Attorney General ("NYAG") initiated an investigation into certain insurance broker compensation arrangements and other aspects of dealings between insurance brokers and insurance companies, and, in connection therewith, filed a civil complaint in October 2004 against a major insurance brokerage firm based on certain of -20- such firm's compensation arrangements with insurers and alleged misconduct in connection with the placement of insurance business. Other state regulators subsequently announced the commencement of similar investigations and reviews. The Company received administrative subpoenas or similar requests for information from the Illinois Division of Insurance, the Missouri Department of Insurance, the NYAG's office, the North Carolina Department of Insurance and the Ohio Department of Insurance in connection with their investigations. Additional regulatory inquiries may be received by the Company's insurance subsidiaries in the future. The Company has fully cooperated with inquiries it has received to date, and it intends to fully cooperate with any future inquiries of this type. Based on an internal review in 2004 relating to the Company's insurance subsidiaries, the Company had identified certain potential issues concerning past insurance solicitation practices involving SNCC and Marsh & McLennan. The instances that the Company was able to specifically identify in this regard were limited in number and involved modest amounts of premium. The Company reported on these issues to the NYAG's office and to the Missouri Department of Insurance in 2004. In 2005, SNCC was the subject of a targeted market conduct examination by the Missouri Department of Insurance relating to these issues, which did not result in any significant adverse findings. The Company will fully cooperate with these and any other regulatory agencies relating to these issues. It is not possible to predict the future impact of this matter on the Company or of the various investigations, or any regulatory changes or litigation resulting from such investigations, on the insurance industry or on the Company and its insurance subsidiaries. From time to time, increased scrutiny has been placed upon the insurance regulatory framework, and a number of state legislatures have considered or enacted legislative measures that alter, and in many cases increase, state authority to regulate insurance companies. In addition to legislative initiatives of this type, the NAIC and insurance regulators are continuously involved in a process of reexamining existing laws and regulations and their application to insurance companies. Furthermore, while the federal government currently does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal legislation and administrative policies (and court interpretations thereof) in a number of areas, such as employee benefits regulation, age, sex and disability-based discrimination, financial services regulation and federal taxation, can significantly affect the insurance business. It is not possible to predict the future impact of changing regulation on the operations of the Company and those of its insurance subsidiaries. The Company's insurance subsidiaries can also be required, under solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which they do business, to pay assessments to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of insurance companies that become insolvent. THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING RULES AND IN THE INTERPRETATIONS OF SUCH RULES. The Company's financial position and results of operations are reported in accordance with GAAP, in the case of the Company, and in accordance with statutory accounting principles, in the case of the statutory financial statements of its insurance subsidiaries. Changes in the applicable GAAP or statutory accounting rules, or in the interpretations of such rules, may adversely affect the Company's and such subsidiaries' reported financial condition and results of operations. In September 2005, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position ("SOP") 05-1, "Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts." SOP 05-1 provides GAAP accounting guidance for deferred policy acquisition costs associated with internal replacements of insurance and investment contracts not addressed by previous accounting guidance, including group insurance products. It defines an internal replacement as a modification in product benefits, features, rights, or coverages that occurs by the exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement or rider to a contract, or by the election of a feature or coverage within a contract. The provisions of SOP 05-1 are effective for internal replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company is in the process of implementing the changes required by its adoption of SOP 05-1 and evaluating the impact the statement will have on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. Based on the Company's evaluation to date, the Company preliminarily estimates that the after-tax charge that will result from the cumulative adjustment to the Company's beginning retained earnings balance at January 1, 2007 will be in the range of $75 million to $90 million, net of the related tax benefit. This preliminary estimate is based on the Company's interpretation of SOP 05-1 and the manner of its implementation with respect to deferred policy acquisition costs relating to the Company's group employee benefit products. However, these matters involve a significant degree of interpretive judgment, and the Company's interpretation is subject to future change due to the issuance of further accounting guidance regarding SOP 05-1 or its application by the accounting industry. It is therefore possible that such charge will be adjusted, either upward or downward, in the event of such a change and thus be outside the Company's presently estimated range. An upward adjustment could materially adversely affect the Company's consolidated financial position; in addition, changes required by future accounting guidance regarding SOP 05-1 or its implementation could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations. -21- THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. The Company competes with numerous other insurance and financial services companies. Many of these organizations have substantially greater assets, higher ratings from rating agencies, larger and more diversified portfolios of insurance products and larger agency sales operations than the Company. Competition in asset accumulation product markets is also encountered from banks, securities brokerage firms and other financial intermediaries marketing alternative savings products, such as mutual funds, traditional bank investments and retirement funding alternatives. THE COMPANY MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY A DECLINE IN THE RATINGS OF ITS INSURANCE SUBSIDIARIES OR ITS OWN CREDIT RATINGS. Ratings with respect to claims-paying ability and financial strength have become an increasingly important factor impacting the competitive position of insurance companies. The financial strength ratings of RSLIC as of February 2007 as assigned by A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody's and Standard & Poor's were A (Excellent), A (Strong), A3 (Good) and A (Strong), respectively. The financial strength ratings of SNCC as of February 2007 as assigned by A.M. Best, Fitch and Standard & Poor's were A (Excellent), A (Strong) and A (Strong), respectively. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings of companies periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained or improved in the future. Claims-paying and financial strength ratings are based upon factors relevant to the Company's insurance subsidiary policyholders and are not directed toward protection of investors in the Company. Downgrades in the ratings of the Company's insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect sales of their products and policyholder withdrawals and could have a material adverse effect on the results of the Company's operations. In addition, downgrades in the Company's credit ratings could materially adversely affect its ability to access the capital markets. The Company's senior unsecured debt ratings as of February 2007 from A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody's and Standard & Poor's were bbb, BBB, Baa3 and BBB, respectively. The ratings for RSLIC's funding agreements as of February 2007 from A.M. Best, Moody's and Standard & Poor's were a, A3, and A, respectively. ALMOST HALF OF THE VOTING POWER OF DELPHI IS CONTROLLED BY ROBERT ROSENKRANZ, WHOSE INTERESTS MAY DIFFER FROM THOSE OF OTHER SECURITYHOLDERS. Each share of Delphi's Class A Common Stock entitles the holder to one vote and each share of Delphi's Class B Common Stock entitles the holder to a number of votes per share equal to the lesser of (1) the number of votes such that the aggregate of all outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock will be entitled to cast 49.9% of all of the votes represented by the aggregate of all outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock or (2) ten votes. Each share of Class B Common Stock is convertible at any time into one share of Class A Common Stock. The holders of the Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class to elect one director of Delphi. As of February 15, 2007, Mr. Robert Rosenkranz, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, by means of beneficial ownership of the general partner of Rosenkranz & Company, L.P. and direct or beneficial ownership, had the power to vote all of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, which as of such date represented 49.9% of the aggregate voting power of the Common Stock. Holders of a majority of the combined voting power of our stockholders have the power to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors (other than the director elected by the holders of Class A Common Stock) and to determine the outcome of fundamental corporate transactions, including mergers and acquisitions, consolidations and sales of all or substantially all of our assets. The Company is a party to consulting and other arrangements with certain affiliates of Mr. Rosenkranz under which various fees are paid to such affiliates, and which are expected to continue in accordance with their terms. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 