Item 1A. Risk Factors From time to time, information provided by us, including, but not limited to statements in this report, or other statements made by or on our behalf, may contain “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those anticipated. Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we presently anticipate. Discussion about the important operational risks that our businesses encounter can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Below, we have described our present view of certain important strategic risks. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will impact our future results. -12- We operate in a cyclical business which could result in significant fluctuations in demand for our products Cyclical changes in our customers’ businesses have resulted in, and may in the future result in, significant fluctuations in demand for our products, our unit costs and our profitability. Most of our customers are in cyclical industries. Their requirements for passive components fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in general economic conditions and other factors. During periods of increasing demand they typically seek to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, as has happened in the past, they tend to decrease rapidly, or even cancel, orders for our products while they use up accumulated stocks. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions and customer industries. Significant fluctuations in sales of our products impact our unit manufacturing costs and impact our profitability by making it more difficult for us to predict our production, raw materials and shipping needs. Changes in demand mix, needed technologies and end-use markets may adversely affect our ability to match our products, inventory and capacity to meet customer demand and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are also vulnerable to general economic events or trends beyond our control, and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand. Our global growth is subject to economic risk If the anticipated growth in the global economy and in the electronics industry is weaker or shorter than expected, demand in the electronic component industry may decline as it has in the past, which could lead to increased sales price erosion and adversely affect our results of operations. During periods of economic downturn, we tend to suffer from declining demand in the passive electronic component industry, which causes a drop in our average sales prices, resulting in a reduction in our gross margins and operating profits. Future growth of the global economy and the demand of the electronic component industry can be difficult to predict. Accordingly, it is difficult for us to predict our future sales, which could make it difficult to manage our operations. We must consistently reduce our total costs to remain competitive and to combat downward price trends To remain competitive and to combat the impact of potential downward price trends we must consistently reduce the total costs of our products. Our industry is intensely competitive, and prices for existing products tend to decrease over their life cycle. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and material improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers’ inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for supply chain management. In addition, as a result of our efforts to streamline manufacturing, logistics operations and enhance operations in low cost labor markets in response to the needs of the electronic components market, we have incurred restructuring costs in the past and may incur additional restructuring costs in the future. We attempt to improve profitability by operating in countries in which labor costs are low; but the shift of operations to these regions may entail considerable expense Our strategy is aimed at achieving significant production cost savings through the transfer and expansion of manufacturing operations to and in countries with lower productions costs, such as the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, China and El Salvador. During this process, we may experience under-utilization of certain plants and factories in high-labor-cost regions and capacity constraints in plants and factories located in low-labor-costs regions. This under-utilization may result initially in production inefficiencies and higher costs. These costs include those associated with compensation in connection with work force reductions and plant closings in the higher-labor-cost regions, and start-up expenses, manufacturing and construction delays, and increased depreciation costs in connection with the initiation or expansion of production in lower-labor-costs regions. In addition, as we implement transfers of certain of our operations we may experience strikes or other types of unrest as a result of lay-offs or termination of our employees in higher-labor-cost countries. We encounter competition in substantially all areas of our business We compete primarily on the basis of engineering, product quality, price, customer service, and delivery time. Competitors include large, diversified companies, some of which have substantial assets and financial resources, as well as medium to small companies. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not enter into our existing markets, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. -13- We must continue to develop innovative products Most of the fundamental technologies used in the passive components industry have been available for a long time. The market is nonetheless typified by rapid changes in product designs and technological advantages allowing for better performance and/or lower cost. New applications are frequently found for existing technologies, and new technologies occasionally replace existing technologies for some applications or open up new business opportunities in other areas of application. Successful innovation is critical for maintaining profitability in the face of potential erosion of selling prices for existing products. To combat downward selling price pressure for our products and to meet market requirements, we must continue to develop innovative products and production techniques. Sustaining and improving our profitability depends a great deal on our ability to develop new products quickly and successfully to customer specifications. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced price pressure in recent years. We have traditionally combated downward pricing trends in part by offering products with new technologies or applications that offer our customers advantages over older products. We also seek to maintain profitability by developing products to our customers’ specifications that are not readily available from competitors. Developing and marketing these products requires start-up costs that may not be recouped if those new products or production techniques are not successful. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our results of operations. Our operating results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality and cost Many of our products require the use of raw materials that are available from only a limited number of regions around the world, are available from only a limited number of suppliers or may be subject to significant fluctuations in market prices. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are significant price increases for these raw materials. For example, the prices for tantalum, platinum, silver, nickel, copper and palladium, raw materials that we use in the manufacture of our products, are subject to fluctuation but have remained relatively stable compared to prior years. Our inability to recover costs through increased prices could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For periods in which the prices for these raw materials rise, we may be unable to pass on the increased cost to our customers which would result in decreased margins for the products in which they are used. For periods in which margins are declining, we may be required, as has occurred in the past, to write down our inventory carrying cost of these raw materials. Depending on the extent of the difference between market price and our carrying cost, the write-down could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. From time to time there have been short-term market shortages of raw materials. While these shortages have not historically adversely affected our ability to increase production of products, they have historically resulted in higher raw material costs for us. There can be no assurance that any of these market shortages in the future would not adversely affect our ability to increase production, particularly during periods of growing demand for our products. Our sales to distribution sales channel customers may fluctuate Selling products to our customers in the electronic distribution sales channel has associated risks, including, without limitation, that sales can be negatively impacted on a short-term basis as a result of changes in distributor inventory levels; these changes may be unrelated to the purchasing trends by the end customer. In the past, we have gone through cycles of inventory correction as distributors increase or decrease their supply chain inventories based upon their anticipated market needs and economic conditions. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation Many of the orders that comprise our backlog may be canceled by our customers without penalty. Our customers may on occasion order components from multiple sources to ensure timely delivery when delivery lead times are particularly long. They may cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive, a situation that we have experienced during periods of economic slowdown. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the amount of our backlog does not exceed the level of orders that will ultimately be delivered. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if customers cancel a material portion of orders in our backlog. -14- Our growth strategy may include growth through acquisitions, which may involve significant risks We may, from time to time, consider making strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses as we believe such acquisitions can help to position us to take advantage of growth opportunities. Such acquisitions could introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. More particularly, risks and uncertainties of an acquisition strategy could include: (1) difficulties in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (2) challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (3) risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (4) potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; (5) risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations; (6) risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (7) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; (8) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (9) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. Changes in our environmental liability and compliance obligations may adversely impact our operations Our manufacturing operations, products and/or product packaging are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes and certain chemicals used or generated in our manufacturing process, employee health and safety, labeling or other notifications with respect to the content or other aspects of our processes, products or packaging, restrictions on the use of certain materials in or on design aspects of our products or product packaging, and responsibility for disposal of products or product packaging. We also operate on sites that may have potential future environmental issues as a result of activities at sites during AVX’s long history of manufacturing operations or prior to the start of operations by AVX. Even though we may have been indemnified for such environmental matters at certain sites, regulatory agencies in those jurisdictions may require us to address such issues. We establish reserves for specifically identified potential environmental liabilities which we believe are adequate. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance we will not be obligated to address environmental matters that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, more stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with these regulations. In order to resolve liabilities at various sites, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees, some of which may be, under certain conditions, reopened or subject to renegotiation. Our results may be negatively affected by foreign currency exchange rates We conduct business in several international currencies through our worldwide operations, and as a result, are subject to foreign exchange exposure due to changes in exchange rates of the various currencies. Changes in exchange rates can positively or negatively affect our sales, gross margins and retained earnings. In order to minimize the effects of movements in currency exchange rates, we enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge external and intercompany foreign currency transactions. In addition, we attempt to minimize currency exposure risk by producing our products in the same country or region in which the products are sold, thereby generating revenues and incurring expenses in the same currency. There can be no assurance that our approach will be successful, especially in the event of a significant and sudden decline in the value of any of the international currencies of our worldwide operations. We do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. Our operating results may be adversely affected by foreign operations International manufacturing and sales are subject to inherent risks, including changes in local economic or political conditions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory environments, potentially adverse tax consequences and the exchange rate risk discussed above. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have a material adverse impact on our production capabilities or otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. -15- Our products are subject to stringent specifications and operating tolerances All of our products are built to specifications and tested by us for adherence to such specifications before shipment to customers. We warrant that our products will meet such specifications. In the past, we have not incurred significant warranty claims. However, we have seen an increasing trend for claims related to end market product application failures or end-user recall or damage claims related to product defects which could result in future claims that have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Changes in general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control may adversely impact our business The following factors could adversely impact our business: · A global economic slowdown in any one, or all, of our markets. · Rapid material escalation of the cost of regulatory compliance and litigation. · Unexpected government policies and regulations affecting us or our significant customers’ sales or production facilities. · Unforeseen regional conflicts or actions, including but not limited to armed conflict and trade wars, that could impact our, or our customers’, production capabilities. · Unforeseen interruptions to our business with our significant customers and suppliers resulting from but not limited to, strikes, financial instabilities, computer malfunctions, environmental disruptions or inventory excesses. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new factors emerge from time to time. Other unknown and unpredictable factors also could have either adverse or positive effects on our future results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable Item 