Item 1A. Risk Factors From time to time, information provided by us, including, but not limited to statements in this report, or other statements made by or on our behalf, may contain “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those anticipated. -12- Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. Discussion about the important operational risks that our businesses encounter can be found in “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Below, we have described our present view of certain important strategic risks. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will impact our future results. We operate in a cyclical business Cyclical changes in our customers’ businesses have resulted in, and may in the future result in, significant fluctuations in demand for our products, our unit costs and our profitability. Most of our customers are in cyclical industries. Their requirements for passive components fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in general economic conditions and other factors. During periods of increasing demand they typically seek to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, as has happened in the past, they tend to decrease rapidly, or even cancel, orders for our products while they use up accumulated stocks. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions and customer industries. Significant fluctuations in sales of our products impact our unit manufacturing costs and impact our profitability by making it more difficult for us to predict our production, raw materials and shipping needs. We are also vulnerable to general economic events or trends beyond our control, and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand. Our global growth is subject to economic risk If the anticipated growth in the global economy and in the electronics industry is weaker or shorter than expected, demand in the electronic component industry may decline again, which could lead to increased sales price erosion and adversely affect our results of operations. After a prolonged downturn in the global economy in general, and the passive electronic component industry in particular, we experienced a global upturn during the first half of fiscal year 2005, accompanied by a generally positive trend in demand for passive electronic components from all industries and regions. However, this recovery slowed down quickly in the second half of that fiscal year. During periods of economic downturn, we tend to suffer from declining demand in the passive electronic component industry, which causes a drop in our average sales prices, resulting in a reduction in our gross margins and operating profits. Future growth of the global economy and the demand of the electronic component industry remain uncertain. Accordingly, it is difficult for us to predict our future sales, which could make it difficult to manage our operations. We must consistently reduce our total costs to combat downward price trends To combat the impact of potential downward price trends we must consistently reduce the total costs of our products. Our industry is intensely competitive, and prices for existing products tend to decrease over their life cycle. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and material improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers’ inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for supply chain management. As a result of our efforts to streamline manufacturing and logistics operations in response to the needs of the electronic components market, we have incurred restructuring costs in the past and may incur additional restructuring costs in the future. We encounter competition in substantially all areas of our business We compete primarily on the basis of engineering, product quality, price, customer service, and delivery time. Competitors include large, diversified companies, some of which have substantial assets and financial resources, as well as medium to small companies. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not enter into our existing markets, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. -13- We must continue to develop innovative products Most of the fundamental technologies used in the passive components industry have been available for a long time. The market is nonetheless typified by rapid changes in product designs and technological advantages allowing for better performance and/or lower cost. New applications are frequently found for existing technologies, and new technologies occasionally replace existing technologies for some applications or open up new business opportunities in other areas of application. Successful innovation is critical for maintaining profitability in the face of potential erosion of selling prices for existing products. To combat downward selling price pressure for our products and to meet market requirements, we must continue to develop innovative products and production techniques. Sustaining and improving our profitability depends a great deal on our ability to develop new products quickly and successfully to customer specifications. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced price pressure in recent years. We have traditionally combated downward pricing trends in part by offering products with new technologies or applications that offer our customers advantages over older products. We also seek to maintain profitability by developing products to our customers’ specifications that are not readily available from competitors. Developing and marketing these products requires start-up costs that may not be recouped if those new products or production techniques are not successful. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our results of operations. Our operating results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality and cost Many of our products require the use of raw materials that are available from only a limited number of regions around the world, are available from only a limited number of suppliers or may be subject to significant fluctuations in market prices. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are significant price increases for these raw materials. For example, the prices for tantalum, platinum, silver, copper and palladium, raw materials that we use in the manufacture of our products, are subject to fluctuation and have increased significantly over the past year. Our inability to recover costs through increased prices could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For periods in which the prices for these raw materials rise, we may be unable to pass on the increased cost to our customers which would result in decreased margins for the products in which they are used. For periods in which margins are declining, we may be required, as has occurred in the past, to write down our inventory carrying cost of these raw materials. Depending on the extent of the difference between market price and our carrying cost, the write-down could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. From time to time there have been short-term market shortages of raw materials. While these shortages have not historically adversely affected our ability to increase production of products containing tantalum, platinum, silver, copper and palladium, they have historically resulted in higher raw material costs for us. There can be no assurance that any of these market shortages in the future would not adversely affect our ability to increase production, particularly during periods of growing demand for our products. Our sales to distribution sales channel customers fluctuate Selling products to our customers in the electronic distribution sales channel has associated risks, including, without limitation, that sales can be negatively impacted on a short-term basis as a result of changes in distributor inventory levels; these changes may be unrelated to the purchasing trends by the end customer. In the past, we have gone through cycles of inventory correction as distributors increase or decrease their supply chain inventories based upon their anticipated market needs and economic conditions. -14- Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation Many of the orders that comprise our backlog may be canceled by our customers without penalty. Our customers may on occasion order components from multiple sources to ensure timely delivery when delivery lead times are particularly long. They may cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive, a situation that we have experienced during periods of economic slowdown. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the amount of our backlog does not exceed the level of orders that will ultimately be delivered. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if customers cancel a material portion of orders in our backlog. Changes in general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control may adversely impact our business The following factors could adversely impact our business: · A global economic slowdown in any one, or all, of our markets. · The effects of significant changes in monetary and fiscal policies in the U.S. and abroad including significant currency fluctuations and unforeseen inflationary pressures. · Rapid material escalation of the cost of regulatory compliance and litigation. · Unexpected government policies and regulations affecting us or our significant customers’ sales or production facilities. · Unforeseen regional conflicts or actions, including but not limited to armed conflict and trade wars, that could impact our, or our customers’, production capabilities. · Unforeseen interruptions to our business with our significant customers and suppliers resulting from but not limited to, strikes, financial instabilities, computer malfunctions, environmental disruptions or inventory excesses. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new factors emerge from time to time. Other unknown and unpredictable factors also could have either adverse or positive effects on our future results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable Item 