Item 1A: Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us and our business. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Also, consider the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the documents incorporated by reference. The Company’s Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally Since December 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are facing extremely difficult operating conditions due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $200 billion in the equity of other banking organizations, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the State of Maryland and, in particular, the Baltimore, Washington metropolitan region. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, declining unemployment, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; rising unemployment, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2008, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. The business environment in Maryland and the markets in which the Company operates has been less adverse than in the 10 United States generally but continues to deteriorate. It is expected that the business environment in the State of Maryland, the United States and worldwide will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s Profitability Depends Significantly On Economic Conditions In The State Of Maryland The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Maryland and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers in the Baltimore, Washington metropolitan area. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company’s deposit funding sources. Although economic conditions in the State of Maryland have experienced less decline than in the United States generally, these conditions are declining and are expected to continue to decline in the future. A significant decline in general economic conditions, whether caused by recession, inflation, unemployment, changes in securities markets, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Competition may decrease our growth or profits. We face significant competition for banking services in our primary market in which we operate. Competition in the local banking industries may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. We may face competition now and in the future from the following: other local and regional banking institutions, including larger commercial banking organizations; savings banks; credit unions; other financial institutions; and non-bank financial services companies serving the area. In particular, our competitors may possess greater resources that may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits, which enable them to serve the credit needs of larger customers. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in their respective market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively affected. In the past, we have expanded our operations into non-banking activities such as insurance-related products and brokerage services. We may have difficulty competing with more established providers of these products and services due to the intense competition in many of these industries. In addition, we may be unable to attract and retain non-banking customers due to a lack of market and product knowledge or other industry specific matters or an inability to attract and retain qualified, experienced employees. Our failure to attract and retain customers with respect to these non-banking activities could negatively impact our future earnings. Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our main source of income from operations is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between the interest income received on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred in connection with deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, our net interest income can be affected by changes in market interest rates. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. We have adopted asset and liability management policies to try to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on our net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, even with these policies in place, we cannot provide assurance that changes in interest rates will not negatively impact our operating results. An increase in interest rates also could have a negative impact on our business by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to our allowance for loan losses. Increases in interest rates also may reduce the demand for loans and, as a result, the amount of loan and commitment fees. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates may result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from depository institutions into direct investments that pay higher rates of return, and may affect the value of our investment securities and other interest-earning assets. We originate and sell mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for our loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold and lower gains on sales of mortgages can decrease our revenues and net income. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover our actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. If our customers default on the repayment of their loans, our profitability could be adversely affected. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more of our loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loans. If collection efforts are unsuccessful or 11 acceptable workout arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write-off the loans in whole or in part. Although we may acquire any real estate or other assets that secure the defaulted loans through foreclosure or other similar remedies, the amount owed under the defaulted loans may exceed the value of the assets acquired. Our management periodically makes a determination of our allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of our loan portfolio, economic conditions, and the value of the underlying collateral and the level of our non-accruing loans. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance may not be sufficient and future additions to the allowance may be necessary which will result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or an increase in nonperforming loans, management determines that an increase in our allowance for loan losses is necessary, we may incur additional expenses. In addition, as an integral part of their examination process, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and the value we attribute to real estate acquired through foreclosure or other similar remedies. These regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items based on their judgment. These adjustments could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. In the course of our business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of the affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owners or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Because we serve primarily individuals and smaller businesses, the ability of our customers to repay their loans is impacted by the economic conditions in these areas. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 72% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial loans, defined as commercial and industrial, municipal, multi-family, commercial real estate and construction loans. Thus, our results of operations, both in terms of the origination of new loans and the potential default of existing loans, is heavily dependent upon the strength of local businesses. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of competitive pressures, market interest rates, general economic conditions or other events, the balance of our deposits decrease relative to our overall banking operations, we may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. Such an increased reliance on borrowings could have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Government regulation significantly affects our business. Bank holding companies and state and federally chartered banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by federal and state regulatory agencies. We are subject to the BHCA, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, and the Office of the Maryland Commissioner. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including: changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies; maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution; permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments; permissible non-banking activities; the level of reserves against deposits; and restrictions on dividend payments. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect our ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. The FDIC, and state banking authorities possess cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct our business and obtain financing. Furthermore, our banking business is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the monetary policies of the FRB. Changes in monetary or legislative policies may affect the interest rates we must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates we can charge on our loans, as well as the manner in which we offer deposits and make loans. These monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions, including our Bank. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under our regulatory framework could affect the confidence of our customers in us, thus compromising our competitive position. In addition, failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under our regulatory framework or “well managed” under regulatory examination procedures could compromise our status as a bank holding company and related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals. 12 Changes in the Federal and State tax laws may negatively impact the financial performance of the Company. The Company is subject to changes in tax law that could increase the effective tax rate payable to the state or federal government. These law changes may be retroactive to previous periods and as a result, could negatively affect the current and future performance of the Company. Technology failure could adversely affect our operations and profits. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruptions or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, and servicing or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could result in a loss of customer business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company is subject to litigation risk. In the normal course of business, the Corporation may become involved in litigation, the outcome of which may have a direct material impact on our financial position and daily operations. Please see Note 16, “Contingencies” for the current status of existing and threatened litigation. Changes in accounting standards or interpretation in new or existing standards could materially affect the results of the Company. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change accounting regulations and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. In addition, the FASB, SEC, bank regulators and the outside independent auditors may revise their previous interpretations regarding existing accounting and regulations and the application of these accounting standards. These revisions in their interpretations are out of the Company’s control and may have a material impact on the Company’s financial results of operations. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and contract. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders largely depends on the Company’s receipt of dividends from the Bank. The amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company is limited by federal laws and regulations. We also may decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to maintain earnings for use in our business. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, ranging between $5.50 and $15.08 per share during the 12 months ended December 31, 2008. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. There may be a significant impact on the market share of our common stock due to, among other things: Variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors; Changes in investors’ or analysts’ perceptions of the risks and conditions of business; The size of the public float of our common stock; Regulatory developments; The announcement of acquisitions or new branch locations by us or our competitors; Market conditions; and General economic conditions. Additionally, the average daily trading volume for our common stock is low and on various days throughout the year, there is no activity on the stock. There can be no assurance that a more active or consistent trading market will develop. As a result, relatively small trades could have a significant impact on the price of our stock. Item 