Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us and our business. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Also, consider the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the documents incorporated by reference. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, us and our industry. Although there were some indications of improvement during the last two years, the economic downturn that began with the recession that started in December 2007 continued during 2011. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses continue to face extremely difficult operating conditions due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has remained at an elevated level which will continue to hamper economic growth. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve Board borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. Starting in 2008 the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve Board and other regulators have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing in the equity of other banking organizations, but asset values have continued to decline and access to credit continues to be very limited. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the State of Maryland and, in particular, the Baltimore metropolitan region. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, declining unemployment, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; rising unemployment, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, natural disasters, or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, since 2009, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide, which negatively impacted our ability to make loans, our borrowers’ ability to remain current in accordance with the terms of their loans, and our overall results of operations and financial condition. The business environment in Maryland and the markets in which we operate has been less adverse than in the United States generally but continues to be less than stable. While the recession has officially ended and there have been some indications of improvement in the economy, it remains unclear when conditions will improve to the extent that will impact our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and demand for loans overall. We expect that the business environment in the State of Maryland, the United States and worldwide will continue to be challenging for the foreseeable future. Similarly, while there have been some limited pockets of price stability or even appreciation in our market area, overall real estate values are continuing to decline. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, would have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could continue to adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, results of operations, and financial condition, and worsening conditions would have an even more dramatic impact. 21 Because we serve a limited market area in Maryland, unfavorable economic conditions in our market area could more adversely affect us than it affects our larger competitors who are more geographically diverse. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Maryland and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers in the Baltimore metropolitan area. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services, as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Although economic conditions in the State of Maryland have experienced less decline than in the United States generally, these conditions have declined during the past few years and are not expected to improve significantly in the near future. A continued decline in general economic conditions, whether caused by another recession, inflation, unemployment, changes in securities markets, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences or other factors could impact local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and may more severely affect our business and financial condition than it affects our larger bank competitors. Further, unexpected changes in the national and local economy may adversely affect our ability to attract deposits and to make loans. Such risks are beyond our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the value of our securities. We may raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed and could be dilutive to existing stockholders. We are required by our regulators to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Carrollton Bank, exceeded the minimum regulatory capital levels as of December 31, 2011. Based on the levels of capital, the Company and the Bank were classified as “well capitalized.” However, we expect that we will be required to raise additional capital in the future to redeem the preferred stock issued to Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Plan and to support balance sheet growth. We may also choose to raise additional capital for strategic, regulatory or other reasons, particularly if adverse market conditions continue. Current conditions in the capital markets are such that traditional sources of capital may not be available to us when needed or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully raise additional capital at all or on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Further, if we raise capital by issuing stock, the holdings of our existing stockholders will be diluted. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover our actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. If our customers default on the repayment of their loans, our profitability could be adversely affected. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more of our loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loans. If collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable workout arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write off the loans in whole or in part. Although we may acquire any real estate or other assets that secure the defaulted loans through foreclosure or other similar remedies, the amount owed under the defaulted loans may exceed the value of the assets acquired. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Our management periodically makes a determination of our allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of our loan portfolio, economic conditions, concentrations of credit risk, the value of the underlying collateral, and the level of our non-accruing loans. If our assumptions in making this determination prove to be incorrect, our allowance may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio and future additions to the allowance may be necessary which will result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or an increase in nonperforming loans, management determines that an increase in our allowance for loan losses is necessary, we may incur additional expenses. 22 While we believe that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we would be unable to predict loan losses with certainty even under normal economic conditions. The unprecedented volatility experienced in the financial and capital markets during the last few years makes what is already a complex and difficult determination even more so, as the types of processes and information we have traditionally relied upon may no longer be accurate. As a result, we cannot be sure that charge-offs will not exceed the allowance for loan losses in future periods. In addition, as an integral part of their examination process, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and the value we attribute to real estate acquired through foreclosure or other similar remedies. These regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items based on their judgment. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. Events affecting properties acquired through foreclosure could affect earnings. In the course of our business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of the affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owners or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Our lending strategy involves risks resulting from the choice of loan portfolio. Our loan strategy emphasizes commercial business loans and commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2011, such loans accounted for approximately 69.5% of our loan portfolio. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans are considered to have a higher degree of credit risk than residential mortgage loans because the repayment of such loans typically depends on the income stream, and thus successful operation of, the borrower’s business and, in the case of commercial real estate loans, the real estate securing the loan as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. In addition, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or related borrowers than residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a single one-to four-family residential mortgage loan. Commercial real estate loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. In addition, the property securing these loans is often subject to greater volatility than the property securing residential mortgage loans. In addition, with respect to commercial business loans, the collateral securing these loans, often assets of the business, may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and liquidate, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Because commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans are vulnerable to downturns in the business cycle, further economic weakness could cause more of those loans to become nonperforming. The underwriting, review and monitoring performed by our officers and directors cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. In addition, we have a high concentration of construction and real estate loans, both commercial and residential. Such loans constitute 86.5% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2011. We secure many of our loans with real estate (both residential and commercial) in the Maryland suburbs of Baltimore. While we believe our credit underwriting adequately considers the underlying collateral in the evaluation process, further weakness in the real estate market could adversely affect our customers, which in turn could adversely impact us. While we are currently decreasing the number of land development and construction loans we originate based on current market conditions, such loans accounted for approximately 5.0% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011. Real estate construction, land acquisition and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate, and we may be exposed to significant losses on loans for these projects. Such loans involve additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion, and costs may exceed realizable values in declining real estate markets. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and the realizable market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated or market values or rental rates decline, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time while we attempt to dispose of it. 23 If we are unable to continue to originate residential real estate loans and sell them into the secondary market for a profit, our earnings could decrease. We sell a majority of the residential mortgage loans we originate on the secondary market and derive a significant portion of our noninterest income from the origination of residential real estate loans and the subsequent sale of such loans into the secondary market. If we are unable to continue to originate and sell residential real estate loans at historical or greater levels, our residential real estate loan volume would decrease, which could decrease our earnings. A rising interest rate environment, general economic conditions or other factors beyond our control could adversely affect our ability to originate residential real estate loans. We also are experiencing an increase in regulations and compliance requirements related to mortgage loan originations necessitating technology upgrades and other changes. If new regulations continue to increase and we are unable to make technology upgrades, our ability to originate mortgage loans will be reduced or eliminated. Additionally, we sell a large portion of our residential real estate loans to third party investors, and rising interest rates could negatively affect our ability to generate suitable profits on the sale of such loans. If interest rates increase after we originate the loans, our ability to market those loans is impaired as the profitability on the loans decreases. These fluctuations can have an adverse effect on the revenue we generate from residential real estate loans and in certain instances, could result in a loss on the sale of the loans. We may face increasing pressure from historical purchasers of our residential mortgage loans to repurchase those loans or reimburse purchasers for losses related to those loans. For the mortgage loans we sell in the secondary market, the mortgage loan sales contracts contain indemnification clauses should the loans default, generally in the first 60 to 90 days, or if documentation is determined not to be in compliance with regulations. In response to the ongoing financial crisis, we believe that purchasers of residential mortgage loans, such as government sponsored entities, are increasing their efforts to seek to require sellers of residential mortgage loans to either repurchase loans previously sold or reimburse purchasers for losses related to loans previously sold when losses are incurred on a loan previously sold due to actual or alleged failure to strictly conform to the purchaser’s purchase criteria. As a result, we may face increasing pressure from historical purchasers of our residential mortgage loans to repurchase those loans or reimburse purchasers for losses related to those loans and we may face increasing expenses to defend against such claims. While our historic losses as a result of these indemnities have been insignificant, if we are required in the future to repurchase loans previously sold, reimburse purchasers for losses related to loans previously sold, or if we incur increasing expenses to defend against such claims, this could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our mortgage loan activities and negatively impact our net income. Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our main source of income from operations is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income received on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred in connection with deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, our net interest income can be affected by changes in market interest rates. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. We have adopted asset and liability management policies to try to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on our net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, even with these policies in place, we cannot provide assurance that changes in interest rates will not negatively impact our operating results. A decrease in interest rates could have a negative impact on our business by reducing the yield on interest earning assets without a corresponding decrease in the cost of our interest bearing liabilities. An increase in interest could adversely impact our business if the cost of deposits and borrowings increases more quickly than the yield on interest earning assets. An increase in interest rates also could have a negative impact on our business by reducing the ability of borrowers with variable rate loans to repay their current loan obligations when their required payments increase, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to our allowance for loan losses. Increases in interest rates also may reduce the demand for loans and, as a result, the amount of loan and commitment fees. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates may result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from depository institutions into direct investments that pay higher rates of return, and may affect the value of our investment securities and other interest-earning assets. 24 We originate and sell mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for our loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold and lower gains on sales of mortgages could decrease our revenues and net income. Also, we have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of competitive pressures, market interest rates, general economic conditions or other events, the balance of our deposits decreases relative to our overall banking operations, we may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future, which would have a higher interest rate than deposits. Further, if interest rates rise it is likely we would have to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which would increase our interest expenses and decrease net interest income. Because a portion of our assets, including loans held in our portfolio, have fixed rates, such increases in the rate we pay on deposits and the higher rates we would be required to pay if we increased our reliance on borrowings would not necessarily be offset by increases in the yield on our interest-earning assets. Therefore, such an increased reliance on borrowings and/or higher rates paid on deposits could increase interest expenses and decrease net interest income, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Government regulation significantly affects our business and could restrict our operations and cause us to incur higher costs. Bank holding companies and state and federally chartered banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by federal and state regulatory agencies. We are subject to the BHCA, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the FDIC and the Office of the Maryland Commissioner of Financial Regulation. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including: changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies; maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits, and restrictions on dividend payments. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect our ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. The FDIC, and state banking authorities possess cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve Board possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct our business and obtain financing. In addition, because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. Changes in regulation and oversight could affect the service and products we offer, increase our operating expenses, increase compliance challenges, and otherwise adversely impact our financial performance and condition. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and our Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. Furthermore, our banking business is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary or legislative policies may affect the interest rates we must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates we can charge on our loans, as well as the manner in which we offer deposits and make loans. These monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions, including our Bank. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under our regulatory framework could affect the confidence of our customers in us, thus compromising our competitive position. In addition, failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under our regulatory framework or “well managed” under regulatory examination procedures could compromise our status as a bank holding company and related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals. 25 The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, represents a comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. financial services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes the new CFPB, included provisions that impact corporate governance and executive compensation disclosure by all SEC reporting companies, impose new capital requirements on bank and thrift holding companies, allow financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts, broaden the base for FDIC insurance assessments, impose additional duties and limitations on mortgage lending activities and restrict how mortgage brokers and loan originators may be compensated, included additional mortgage origination provisions including risk retention, and modified many other regulations applicable to insured depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations to implement its various provisions, and the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business will not be known for years until regulations required by the statute are adopted and implemented. As a result, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business, operations, or financial condition. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business and operations, impose on us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes will also likely result in additional costs and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities and may decrease revenues by, for example, limiting the fees we can charge, any of which may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity, or financial condition. Further, if the industry responds to provisions allowing financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts by competing for those deposits with interest-bearing accounts when these provisions become effective during 2011, this would put some degree of downward pressure on our net interest margin. The new duties to be imposed on mortgage lenders, including a duty to determine the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and a requirement on mortgage securitizers to retain a minimum level of economic interest in securitized pools of certain mortgage types, may decrease the demand for mortgage loans as well as our ability to sell such loans into the secondary market, which would reduce both our interest and non-interest income, especially in light of our focus on mortgage loans. Any of these consequences, as well as the failure to comply with new requirements or any future changes in laws or regulations, may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. For a more detailed description of the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Supervision and Regulation—The Dodd-Frank Act.” Future increases in and/or special FDIC assessments would hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the DIF. As a result, beginning in 2009 the FDIC significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance and imposed a special assessment in June 2009. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. Although our FDIC assessment decreased in 2011 as a result of the change in the assessment calculation discussed above in “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Deposit Insurance,” they are still significantly higher than before the 2007 recession. The FDIC may increase the assessment rates or impose additional special assessments in the future to keep the DIF at the statutory target level. Any increase in our FDIC premiums, whether as a result of an increase in the risk category for the Bank or in the general assessment rates or as a result of special assessments, would negatively impact our earnings. We face substantial competition that could negatively impact our growth and profits. We face significant competition for banking services in our primary market in which we operate. Competition in the local banking industries may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. Many of our competitors are significantly larger, have established customer bases, possess greater resources that may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns, and can offer services we do not and cannot. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits, which enable them to serve the credit needs of larger customers. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in their respective market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively affected. In addition, in the past, we have expanded our operations into non-banking activities such as insurance-related products and brokerage services. We may have difficulty competing with more established providers of these products and services due to the intense competition in many of these industries. In addition, we may be unable to attract and retain non-banking customers due to a lack of market and product knowledge or other industry specific matters or an inability to attract and retain qualified, experienced employees. Our failure to attract and retain customers with respect to these non-banking activities could negatively impact our future earnings. 26 Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations System failure or cybersecurity breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen hardware and cybersecurity issues. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customers and inhibit current and potential customers from our Internet banking services, any of all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Each year, we add additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity breaches including firewalls and penetration testing, but there can be no assurance that such security measures will be effective in preventing such breaches, damage or failures. We continue to investigate cost effective measures as well as insurance protection; there is no guarantee, however, that such insurance, if obtained, would cover all costs associated with any breach, damage or failure of our computer systems and network infrastructure. Our ability to compete effectively and operate profitably may depend on our ability to keep up with technological changes. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and contract. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders largely depends on the Company’s receipt of dividends from the Bank. The amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company is limited by federal and state laws and regulations. Among other things, as a recipient of TARP funds, we must adhere to restrictions that limit dividends to stockholders when our net income available to stockholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends; our rate of earnings retention is inconsistent with capital needs and overall macroeconomic outlook; or if we will not meet, or are in danger of not meeting, minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. We also may decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to maintain earnings for use in our business. We have not paid any dividends since February 2011 but have accrued for all unpaid TARP dividends and reflected that accrual as a reduction in stockholders’ equity. 27 The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, ranging between $2.10 and $5.02 per share during the 12 months ended December 31, 2011. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. There may be a significant impact on the market value of our common stock due to, among other things: · Variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors · Changes in investors’ or analysts’ perceptions of the risks and conditions of business · The size of the public float of our common stock · Regulatory developments · The announcement of acquisitions or new branch locations by us or our competitors · Market conditions · General economic conditions Additionally, the average daily trading volume for our common stock is low and on various days throughout the year, there is no activity on the stock. There can be no assurance that a more active or consistent trading market will develop. As a result, relatively small trades could have a significant impact on the price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 