RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Our discussion and analysis in this report, in other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases and in public statements of our officers and corporate spokespersons contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current events. They use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “will”, “plan,” “believe” and other words of similar meaning in connection with discussion of future operating or financial performance. These include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results. Forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this report—for example, governmental regulation and competition in our industry—will be important in determining future results. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed, and actual results may vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statement. Medicis undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. We provide the following discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could also be adversely affected by other factors besides those listed here. However, these are the risks our management currently believes are material. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We Derive A Majority Of Our Sales From Our Core Products, And Any Factor Adversely Affecting Sales Of These Products Would Harm Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations We believe that the prescription volume of our core prescription products and sales of our dermal aesthetic product, RESTYLANE®, which we began selling in the United States on January 6, 2004, will continue to constitute a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any factor adversely affecting our sales related to these products, individually or collectively, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our core prescription products, including DYNACIN® and LOPROX®, are subject to generic competition or may be in the near future. On July 18, 2004, Glades announced the launch of myracTM (minocycline hydrochloride tablets, USP), as a branded pharmaceutical product. MyracTM tablets is a prescription product that competes directly with our DYNACIN® tablet products. During the third quarter of our fiscal 2005, myracTM began being marketed as a generic product. On August 6, 2004, the FDA approved an ANDA submitted by Altana for its ciclopirox topical suspension, a generic version of our LOPROX® TS product. On December 29, 2004, the FDA approved an ANDA submitted by Altana for its ciclopirox cream, a generic version of our LOPROX® cream product. On August 10, 2005, the FDA approved an ANDA submitted by Taro Pharmaceuticals U.S.A. Inc. (“Taro”) for its ciclopirox topical suspension, a generic version of our LOPROX® topical suspension. Each of our core products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by competitive changes, including generic competition. 11 Table of Contents Sales related to our core prescription products and RESTYLANE® could also be adversely affected by other factors, including: • manufacturing or supply interruptions; • the development of new competitive pharmaceuticals and technological advances to treat the conditions addressed by our core products, including the introduction of new products into the marketplace; • marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our competitors; • regulatory action by the FDA and other government regulatory agencies; • changes in the prescribing or procedural practices of dermatologists, plastic surgeons and/or podiatrists; • changes in the reimbursement or substitution policies of third-party payors or retail pharmacies; • product liability claims; • the outcome of disputes relating to trademarks, patents, license agreements and other rights; • changes in state and federal law that adversely affect our ability to market our products to dermatologists, plastic surgeons and/or podiatrists; and • restrictions on travel affecting the ability of our sales force to market to prescribing physicians and plastic surgeons in person. Our Operating Results And Financial Condition May Fluctuate Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons. The following events or occurrences, among others, could cause fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period: • changes in the amount we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses; • untimely contingent research and development payments under our third-party product development agreements; • changes in the amount we spend to promote our products; • delays between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses; • changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently prescribe our products; • changes in reimbursement policies of health plans and other similar health insurers, including changes that affect newly developed or newly acquired products; • increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products; • manufacturing and supply interruptions, including failure to comply with manufacturing specifications; • development of new competitive products by others; • the mix of products that we sell during any time period; • lower than expected demand for our products; • our responses to price competition; • expenditures as a result of legal actions; • market acceptance of our products; • the timing and receipt of FDA approvals; • the impairment and write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets; • implementation of new or revised accounting or tax rules or policies; • disposition of core products, technologies and other rights; • termination or expiration of, or the outcome of disputes relating to, trademarks, patents, license agreements and other rights; • increases in insurance rates for existing products and the cost of insurance for new products; • general economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and investments that affect customer demand; • seasonality of demand for our products; 12 Table of Contents • our level of research and development activities; • new accounting standards and/or changes to existing accounting standards that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows; • costs and outcomes of any tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; and • timing of revenue recognition related to licensing agreements and/or strategic collaborations. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and these comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. The above factors may cause our operating results to fluctuate and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We Will Be Unable To Meet Our Anticipated Development And Commercialization Timelines If Clinical Trials For Our Products Are Unsuccessful Or Delayed Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we and/or our partners must demonstrate through pre-clinical testing and clinical trials that our products are safe and effective for use in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. Our commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: • lack of efficacy during the clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; • slower than expected patient recruitment; and • government or regulatory delays. The results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials are often not predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new products have shown promising results in clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of many factors, including perceived defects in the design of the clinical trials and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials could materially and adversely affect our development and commercialization timelines, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If The Proposed Merger With Inamed Is Not Completed, We Will Have Incurred Substantial Costs That May Adversely Affect Our Financial Results And Operations And The Market Price Of Our Common Stock We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial costs in connection with the proposed merger with Inamed. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of financial advisors, attorneys, accountants and consultants. In addition, we have diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the merger and are subject to restrictions contained in the merger agreement on the conduct of our business. If the merger is not completed, we will receive little or no benefit for these costs. If the merger agreement is terminated, we, in certain specified circumstances, may be required to pay a termination fee of up to $70.0 million to Inamed. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be required to pay Inamed an expense fee of $10.0 million. As consideration for Inamed’s dismissal of pending litigation against Medicis, we agreed to pay Inamed $16.5 million if either the $70.0 million termination fee or the $10.0 million expense fee becomes payable by us or if the merger agreement is terminated because our stockholder approval is not obtained at the stockholders meeting relating to the merger. In addition, if the merger is not consummated, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and our collaborative partners, customers and employees. Each of these factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our financial results and operations. 13 Table of Contents We Will Have More Indebtedness After The Completion Of The Proposed Merger With Inamed, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Cash Flows and Business In order to complete the proposed merger with Inamed, we anticipate arranging for and funding approximately $650 million of new financing. Our debt outstanding as of June 30, 2005 was approximately $453 million. As a result of this increase in debt, demands on our cash resources will increase after the completion of the proposed merger. The increased levels of debt could, among other things: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to, and limit flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; • adversely affect our credit rating; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sales to purposes other than the repayment of debt. If We Are Unable To Finance The Proposed Merger With Inamed Through Existing Cash Balances and Financings, The Completion Of The Proposed Merger Will Be Jeopardized We intend to finance the proposed merger with Inamed with existing cash balances, cash flow from operations and equity or debt financings. In the event that we are unable to finance the merger, but are still obligated to complete the merger, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets or restructuring debt, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, these sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance the proposed merger, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to secure such additional financing, the completion of the proposed merger will be jeopardized and we could be in breach of the merger agreement. We May Not Realize All Of The Anticipated Benefits Of The Proposed Merger With Inamed Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses of Inamed with our company. The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the diverse business practices and operations of our company and Inamed. Neither company has previously completed a merger or acquisition comparable in size or scope to the merger. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies, and may not result in the full benefits expected by our company and Inamed. The failure of the combined company to meet the challenges involved in integrating successfully the operations of our company and Inamed or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could seriously harm its results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities and diversion of management’s attention, and may cause the combined company’s stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • coordinating sales and marketing, research and development and manufacturing functions; • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; • unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods; • maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; • integrating the business cultures of both companies; 14 Table of Contents • preserving important strategic and customer relationships; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. In addition, even if the operations of our company and Inamed are integrated successfully, the combined company may not realize the full benefits of the merger, including the synergies, cost savings, or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, because the businesses of our company and Inamed differ, the results of operations of the combined company, and the market price of our company common stock, may be affected after the merger by factors different from those affecting the shares of our company and Inamed currently, and may suffer as a result of the merger. As a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of Inamed with our company will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the merger. Provisions Of The Merger Agreement May Deter Alternative Business Combinations And Could Negatively Impact The Stock Prices Of Medicis If The Merger Agreement Is Terminated In Certain Circumstances Restrictions in the merger agreement on solicitation generally prohibit us from soliciting any acquisition proposal or offer for a merger or business combination with any other party, including a proposal that might be advantageous to our stockholders when compared to the terms and conditions of the merger with Inamed. If the merger is not completed, we may not be able to conclude another merger, sale or combination on as favorable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. If the merger agreement is terminated, we, in certain specified circumstances, may be required to pay a termination fee of up to $70.0 million to Inamed. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be required to pay Inamed an expense fee of $10.0 million. As consideration for Inamed’s dismissal of pending litigation against our company, we agreed to pay Inamed $16.5 million if either the $70.0 million termination fee or the $10.0 million expense fee becomes payable by us or if the merger agreement is terminated because our stockholders do not approve the issuance of shares pursuant to the merger agreement at the stockholders meeting relating to the merger. These provisions may deter third parties from proposing or pursuing alternative business combinations that might result in greater value to our stockholders than the merger with Inamed. In the event the merger is terminated by us or Inamed in circumstances that obligate us to pay the expenses or termination fee to Inamed, including where Inamed terminates the merger agreement because our board of directors withdraws its support of the merger, our stock price may decline. If We Are Unable To Secure And Protect Our Intellectual Property And Proprietary Rights, Or If Our Intellectual Property Rights Are Found To Infringe Upon The Intellectual Property Rights Of Other Parties, Our Business Could Suffer Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that the protection of our trademarks and service marks is an important factor in product recognition and in our ability to maintain or increase market share. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks and service marks from infringement, their value to us could be lost or diminished. If the marks we use are found to infringe upon the trademark or service mark of another company, we could be forced to stop using those marks and, as a result, we could lose the value of those marks and could be liable for damages caused by an infringement. The patents and patent applications in which we have an interest may be challenged as to their validity or enforceability. Challenges may result in potentially significant harm to our business. The cost of responding to these challenges and the inherent costs to defend the validity of our patents, including the prosecution of infringements and the related litigation, could be substantial. Such litigation also could require a substantial commitment of our management’s time. 15 Table of Contents We are pursuing several United States patent applications, although we cannot be sure that any of these patents will ever be issued. We also have acquired rights under certain patents and patent applications in connection with our licenses to distribute products and by assignment of rights to patents and patent applications from certain of our consultants and officers. These patents and patent applications may be subject to claims of rights by third parties. If there are conflicting claims to the same patent or patent application, we may not prevail and, even if we do have some rights in a patent or patent application, those rights may not be sufficient for the marketing and distribution of products covered by the patent or patent application. The ownership of a patent or an interest in a patent does not always provide significant protection. Others may independently develop similar technologies or design around the patented aspects of our technology. We only conduct patent searches to determine whether our products infringe upon any existing patents when we think such searches are appropriate. As a result, the products and technologies we currently market, and those we may market in the future, may infringe on patents and other rights owned by others. If we are unsuccessful in any challenge to the marketing and sale of our products or technologies, we may be required to license the disputed rights, if the holder of those rights is willing, or to cease marketing the challenged products, or to modify our products to avoid infringing upon those rights. A claim or finding of infringement regarding one of our products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs of responding to infringement claims could be substantial and could require a substantial commitment of our management’s time. The expiration of patents may expose our products to additional competition. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing and manufacturing many of our core products. It is our policy to require all of our employees, consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements prohibiting them from taking or disclosing our proprietary information and technology. Nevertheless, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and proprietary know-how if they are used or disclosed. Despite all of the precautions we may take, people who are not parties to confidentiality agreements may obtain access to our trade secrets or know-how. In addition, others may independently develop similar or equivalent trade secrets or know-how. If Q-Med Is Unable To Protect Its Intellectual Property And Proprietary Rights With Respect To Our Dermal Aesthetic Enhancement Products, Our Business Could Suffer RESTYLANE®, PERLANETM and RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM currently have patent protection in the United States until 2015, and the exclusivity period of the license granted to us by Q-Med ends on the last to occur of the last patent covering the products expiring and the licensed know-how becoming publicly known. If the validity or enforceability of these patents is successfully challenged, the cost to us could be significant and our business may be harmed. For example, if any such challenges are successful, Q-Med may be unable to supply products to us. We may be unable to market, distribute and commercialize the products or it may no longer be profitable for us to do so. We May Not Be Able To Collect All Scheduled License Payments From BioMarin As part of our asset purchase agreement, license agreement and securities purchase agreement with BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (“BioMarin”) discussed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements, BioMarin will make license payments to us of $2.1 million per quarter for four quarters beginning in July 2005; $1.75 million per quarter for the subsequent eight quarters beginning in July 2006; and $1.5 million per quarter for the subsequent four quarters beginning in July 2008. While we did receive all scheduled quarterly license payments during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2005, we cannot give any assurances as to BioMarin’s continuing ability to make payments to us. Currently, our revenue recognition of these payments is on a cash basis. We Depend Upon Our Key Personnel And Our Ability To Attract, Train, And Retain Employees Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our senior management team. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our key managers, with the exception of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of any member of our senior 16 Table of Contents management or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and harm our operating results. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to hire, train and retain skilled employees. Competition for these employees is intense. Our Continued Growth Depends Upon Our Ability To Develop New Products We have internally developed potential pharmaceutical compounds and agents. We also have acquired the rights to certain potential compounds and agents in various stages of development. We currently have a variety of new products in various stages of research and development and are working on possible improvements, extensions and reformulations of some existing products. These research and development activities, as well as the clinical testing and regulatory approval process, which must be completed before commercial quantities of these developments can be sold, will require significant commitments of personnel and financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop a product or technology in a timely manner, or at all. Delays in the research, development, testing or approval processes will cause a corresponding delay in revenue generation from those products. Regardless of whether they are ever released to the market, the expense of such processes will have already been incurred. We reevaluate our research and development efforts regularly to assess whether our efforts to develop a particular product or technology are progressing at a rate that justifies our continued expenditures. On the basis of these reevaluations, we have abandoned in the past, and may abandon in the future, our efforts on a particular product or technology. Products that we research or develop may not be successfully commercialized. If we fail to take a product or technology from the development stage to market on a timely basis, we may incur significant expenses without a near-term financial return. We have in the past, and may in the future, supplement our internal research and development by entering into research and development agreements with other pharmaceutical companies. We may, upon entering into such agreements, be required to make significant up-front payments to fund the projects. We cannot be sure, however, that we will be able to locate adequate research partners or that supplemental research will be available on terms acceptable to us in the future. If we are unable to enter into additional research partnership arrangements, we may incur additional costs to continue research and development internally or abandon certain projects. Even if we are able to enter into collaborations, we cannot assure you that these arrangements will result in successful product development or commercialization. In March 2003, we completed our acquisition of the rights to market, distribute and commercialize the dermal filler product lines known as RESTYLANE®, PERLANETM and RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM in the United States and Canada. The products are approved for sale in Canada, and RESTYLANE® was approved for use in the United States on December 12, 2003. We cannot assure you that the FDA will approve PERLANETM and RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM in a timely fashion, or for the same indications as approved in other countries, or at all. There is also a risk that our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community generally. The degree of market acceptance of any medical device or other product that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including demonstrated clinical efficacy and safety, cost-effectiveness, potential advantages over alternative products, and our marketing and distribution capabilities. Physicians will not recommend our products until clinical data or other factors demonstrate their safety and efficacy compared to other competing products. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of using our products is established, physicians may elect to not recommend using them for any number of other reasons, including whether our products best meet the particular needs of the individual patient. We May Not Be Able To Identify And Acquire Products, Technologies And Businesses On Acceptable Terms, If At All, Which May Constrain Our Growth Our strategy for continued growth includes the acquisition of products, technologies and businesses. These acquisitions could involve acquiring other pharmaceutical companies’ assets, products or technologies. In addition, we may seek to obtain licenses or other rights to develop, manufacture and distribute products. We cannot be certain 17 Table of Contents that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition or licensing candidates or if any will be available on acceptable terms. Other pharmaceutical companies, with greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we have, have also tried to grow through similar acquisition and licensing strategies. Because of their greater resources, our competitors may be able to offer better terms for an acquisition or license than we can offer, or they may be able to demonstrate a greater ability to market licensed products. Our Success Depends On Our Ability To Manage Our Growth We recently experienced a period of rapid growth from both acquisitions and internal expansion of our operations. This growth has placed significant demands on our human and financial resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information controls and systems and effectively motivate, train and manage our employees to properly manage this growth. Even if these steps are taken, we cannot be sure that our recent acquisitions will be integrated successfully into our business operations. If we are not able to successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create. In addition, if we do not manage this growth effectively, maintain the quality of our products despite the demands on our resources and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed. We Depend On Licenses From Others, And Any Loss Of Such Licenses Could Harm Our Business, Market Share And Profitability We have acquired the rights to manufacture, use and market certain products, including certain of our core products. We also expect to continue to obtain licenses for other products and technologies in the future. Our license agreements generally require us to develop a market for the licensed products. If we do not develop these markets within specified time frames, the licensors may be entitled to terminate these license agreements. We may fail to fulfill our obligations under any particular license agreement for various reasons, including insufficient resources to adequately develop and market a product, and lack of market development despite our diligence and lack of product acceptance. Our failure to fulfill our obligations could result in the loss of our rights under a license agreement. Our inability to continue the distribution of any particular licensed product could harm our business, market share and profitability. Also, certain products we license are used in connection with other products we own or license. A loss of a license in such circumstances could materially harm our ability to market and distribute these other products. Our growth and acquisition strategy depends upon the successful integration of licensed products with our existing products. Therefore, any loss, limitation or flaw in a licensed product could impair our ability to market and sell our products, delay new product development and introduction, and harm our reputation. These problems, individually or together, could harm our business and results of operations. We Depend On A Limited Number Of Customers, And If We Lose Any Of Them, Our Business Could Be Harmed Our customers include some of the nation’s leading wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, such as AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal, McKesson, Quality King, and major drug chains. During fiscal 2005, McKesson and Cardinal accounted for 51.2%, and 21.8%, respectively, of our net revenues. The loss of any of these customers’ accounts or a material reduction in their purchases could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may face pricing pressure from our customers. The distribution network for pharmaceutical products has, in recent years, been subject to increasing consolidation. As a result, a few large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. In addition, the number of independent drug stores and small chains has decreased as retail consolidation has occurred. Further consolidation among, or any financial difficulties of, distributors or retailers could result in the combination or elimination of warehouses which may result in product returns to our company, cause a reduction in the inventory 18 Table of Contents levels of distributors and retailers, or otherwise result in reductions in purchases of our products, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Rely On Others To Manufacture Our Products Currently, we outsource our entire product manufacturing needs. Typically, our manufacturing contracts are short-term. We are dependent upon renewing agreements with our existing manufacturers or finding replacement manufacturers to satisfy our requirements. As a result, we cannot be certain that manufacturing sources will continue to be available or that we can continue to outsource the manufacturing of our products on reasonable or acceptable terms. The underlying cost to us for manufacturing our products is established in our agreements with these outside manufacturers. Because of the short-term nature of these agreements, our expenses for manufacturing are not fixed and could change from contract to contract. If the cost of production increases, our gross margins could be negatively affected. In addition, we rely on outside manufacturers to provide us with an adequate and reliable supply of our products on a timely basis. Loss of a supplier or any difficulties that arise in the supply chain could significantly affect our inventories and supply of products available for sale. We do not have alternative sources of supply for all of our products. If a primary supplier of any of our core products is unable to fulfill our requirements for any reason, it could reduce our sales, margins and market share, as well as harm our overall business and financial results. If we are unable to supply sufficient amounts of our products on a timely basis, our revenues and market share could decrease and, correspondingly, our profitability could decrease. Under several exclusive supply agreements, with certain exceptions, we must purchase most of our product supply from specific manufacturers. If any of these exclusive manufacturer or supplier relationships were terminated, we would be forced to find a replacement manufacturer or supplier. The FDA requires that all manufacturers used by pharmaceutical companies comply with the FDA’s regulations, including the cGMP regulations applicable to manufacturing processes. The cGMP validation of a new facility and the approval of that manufacturer for a new drug product may take a year or more before manufacture can begin at the facility. Delays in obtaining FDA validation of a replacement manufacturing facility could cause an interruption in the supply of our products. Although we have business interruption insurance covering the loss of income for up to 12 months, which may mitigate the harm to us from the interruption of the manufacturing of our largest selling products caused by certain events, the loss of a manufacturer could still cause a reduction in our sales, margins and market share, as well as harm our overall business and financial results. Our Reliance On Third-Party Manufacturers And Suppliers Can Be Disruptive To Our Inventory Supply We and the manufacturers of our products rely on suppliers of raw materials used in the production of our products. Some of these materials are available from only one source and others may become available from only one source. Any disruption in the supply of raw materials or an increase in the cost of raw materials to our manufacturers could have a significant effect on their ability to supply us with our products. We try to maintain inventory levels that are no greater than necessary to meet our current projections. Any interruption in the supply of finished products could hinder our ability to timely distribute finished products. If we are unable to obtain adequate product supplies to satisfy our customers’ orders, we may lose those orders and our customers may cancel other orders and stock and sell competing products. This, in turn, could cause a loss of our market share and reduce our revenues. We Could Experience Difficulties In Obtaining Supplies of RESTYLANE®, PERLANETM And RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM The manufacturing process to create bulk non-animal stabilized hyaluronic acid necessary to produce RESTYLANE®, PERLANETM and RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM products is technically complex and requires significant lead-time. Any failure by us to accurately forecast demand for finished product could result in an 19 Table of Contents interruption in the supply of RESTYLANE®, PERLANETM and RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM products and a resulting decrease in sales of the products. We depend exclusively on Q-Med for our supply of RESTYLANE®, PERLANETM and RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM products. There are currently no alternative suppliers of these products. Q-Med has committed to supply RESTYLANE® to us under a long-term license that is subject to customary conditions and our delivery of specified milestone payments. Q-Med manufactures RESTYLANE®, PERLANETM and RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM at its facility in Uppsala, Sweden. We cannot be certain that Q-Med will be able to meet our current or future supply requirements. Any impairment of Q-Med’s manufacturing capacities could significantly affect our inventories and our supply of products available for sale. Supply Interruptions May Disrupt Our Inventory Levels And The Availability Of Our Products Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of our finished products, including: • timing, scheduling and prioritization of production by our contract manufacturers; • labor interruptions; • changes in our sources for manufacturing; • the timing and delivery of domestic and international shipments; • our failure to locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed on a timely basis; and • conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials. We estimate customer demand for our prescription products primarily through use of third party syndicated data sources which track prescriptions written by health care providers and dispensed by licensed pharmacies. These data are extrapolations from information provided only by certain pharmacies, and are estimates of historical demand levels. We observe trends from these data, and, coupled with certain proprietary information, prepare demand forecasts that are the basis for purchase orders for finished and component inventory from our third party manufacturers and suppliers. Our forecasts may fail to accurately anticipate ultimate customer demand for products. Overestimates of demand may result in excessive inventory production; underestimates may result in inadequate supply of our products in channels of distribution. We sell our products primarily to major wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains. Consistent with pharmaceutical industry patterns, approximately 80% of our revenues are derived from four major drug wholesale concerns. While we attempt to estimate inventory levels of our products at our major wholesale customers, using historical prescription information and historical purchase patterns, this process is inherently imprecise. Rarely do wholesale customers provide us complete inventory levels at regional distribution centers, or within their national distribution systems. We rely wholly upon our wholesale and drug chain customers to effect the distribution allocation of our products. We periodically offer promotions to wholesale and chain drugstore customers to encourage dispensing of our products, consistent with prescriptions written by licensed health care providers. Because many of our products compete in multi-source markets, it is important for us to ensure the licensed health care providers’ dispensing instructions are fulfilled with our branded products and are not substituted with a generic product or another therapeutic alternative product which may be contrary to the licensed health care providers’ recommended prescribed Medicis brand. We believe that a critical component of our brand protection program is maintenance of full product availability at drugstore and wholesale customers. We believe such availability reduces the probability of local and regional product substitutions, shortages and backorders, which could result in lost sales. We expect to continue providing favorable terms to wholesale and retail drug chain customers as may be necessary to ensure the fullest possible distribution of our branded products within the pharmaceutical chain of commerce. We cannot control or influence greatly the purchasing patterns of our wholesale and retail drug chain customers. These are highly sophisticated customers that purchase our products in a manner consistent with their industry practices and, presumably, based upon their projected demand levels. Purchases by any given customer, during any given period, may be above or below actual prescription volumes of any of our products during the same period, resulting in fluctuations in product inventory in the distribution channel. 20 Table of Contents Fluctuations In Demand For Our Products Create Inventory Maintenance Uncertainties As a result of customer buying patterns, a substantial portion of our revenues has been recognized in the last month of each quarter. We schedule our inventory purchases to meet anticipated customer demand. As a result, relatively small delays in the receipt of manufactured products by us could result in revenues being deferred or lost. Our operating expenses are based upon anticipated sales levels, and a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Consequently, variations in the timing of revenue recognition could cause significant fluctuations in operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated periodic earnings shortfalls or losses. We Selectively Outsource Certain Non-Sales And Non-Marketing Services, And Cannot Assure You That We Will Be Able To Obtain Adequate Supplies Of Such Services On Acceptable Terms To enable us to focus on our core marketing and sales activities, we selectively outsource certain non-sales and non-marketing functions, such as laboratory research, manufacturing and warehousing. As we expand our activities in these areas, additional financial resources are expected to be utilized. We typically do not enter into long-term manufacturing contracts with third party manufacturers. Whether or not such contracts exist, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate supplies of such services or products in a timely fashion, on acceptable terms, or at all. Importation Of Products From Canada And Other Countries Into The United States May Lower The Prices We Receive For Our Products Our products are subject to competition from lower priced versions of our products and competing products from Canada and other countries where government price controls or other market dynamics result in lower prices. The ability of patients and other customers to obtain these lower priced imports has grown significantly as a result of the Internet, an expansion of pharmacies in Canada and elsewhere targeted to American purchasers, the increase in United States-based businesses affiliated with Canadian pharmacies marketing to American purchasers, and other factors. Most of these foreign imports are illegal under current United States law. However, the volume of imports continues to rise due to the limited enforcement resources of the FDA and the United States Customs Service, and there is increased political pressure to permit the imports as a mechanism for expanding access to lower priced medicines. In December 2003, Congress enacted the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This law contains provisions that may change United States import laws and expand consumers’ ability to import lower priced versions of our and competing products from Canada, where there are government price controls. These changes to United States import laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will lead to substantial savings for consumers and will not create a public health safety issue. The former Secretary of Health and Human Services did not make such a certification. However, it is possible that the current Secretary or a subsequent Secretary could make the certification in the future. As directed by Congress, a task force on drug importation recently conducted a comprehensive study regarding the circumstances under which drug importation could be safely conducted and the consequences of importation on the health, medical costs and development of new medicines for United States consumers. The task force issued its report in December 2004, finding that there are significant safety and economic issues that must be addressed before importation of prescription drugs is permitted, and the current Secretary has not yet announced any plans to make the required certification. In addition, federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the United States import laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. Even if the changes to the United States import laws do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from Canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the FDA, the United States Customs Service and other government agencies. The importation of foreign products adversely affects our profitability in the United States. This impact could become more significant in the future, and the impact could be even greater if there is a further change in the law or if state or local governments take further steps to facilitate the importation of products from abroad. 21 Table of Contents If We Become Subject To Product Liability Claims, Our Earnings And Financial Condition Could Suffer We are exposed to risks of product liability claims from allegations that our products resulted in adverse effects to the patient or others. These risks exist even with respect to those products that are approved for commercial sale by the FDA and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by the FDA. In addition to our desire to reduce the scope of our potential exposure to these types of claims, many of our customers require us to maintain product liability insurance as a condition of conducting business with us. We currently carry product liability insurance in the amount of $50.0 million per claim and $50.0 million in the aggregate on a claims-made basis. Nevertheless, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all claims made against us. Insurance coverage is expensive and may be difficult to obtain. As a result, we cannot be certain that our current coverage will continue to be available in the future on reasonable terms, if at all. If we are liable for any product liability claims in excess of our coverage or outside of our coverage, the cost and expense of such liability could cause our earnings and financial condition to suffer. Rising Insurance Costs Could Negatively Impact Profitability The cost of insurance, including workers compensation, product liability and general liability insurance, have risen significantly in recent years and may increase in the future. In response, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease certain coverages to mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If We Suffer Negative Publicity Concerning The Safety Of Our Products, Our Sales May Be Harmed And We May Be Forced To Withdraw Products Physicians and potential patients may have a number of concerns about the safety of our products, whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research. Negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products could reduce market or governmental acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand or product withdrawal. In addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. RESTYLANE® Is A Consumer Product; Trends May Change And Applicable Laws May Affect Sales Or Product Margins Of RESTYLANE® RESTYLANE® is a consumer product. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react to competitive products or if consumer preferences in the cosmetic marketplace shift to other treatments for the treatment of fine lines, wrinkles and deep facial folds, we may experience a decline in demand for RESTYLANE®. In addition, the popular media has at times in the past produced, and may continue in the future to produce, negative reports regarding the efficacy, safety or side effects of facial aesthetic products. Consumer perceptions of RESTYLANE® may be negatively impacted by these reports and other reasons. Demand for RESTYLANE® may be materially adversely affected by changing economic conditions. Generally, the costs of cosmetic procedures are borne by individuals without reimbursement from their medical insurance providers or government programs. Individuals may be less willing to incur the costs of these procedures in weak or uncertain economic environments, and demand for RESTYLANE® could be adversely affected. We May Not Be Able To Repurchase The Old Notes And New Notes When Required We May Not Be Able To Repurchase The Old Notes And New Notes When Required In June 2002, we sold Contingent Convertible Senior Notes, due in 2032 (the “Old Notes”), in the amount of $400.0 million. In August 2003, we exchanged approximately $230.8 million in principal of these Old Notes for approximately $283.9 million of our Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due in 2033 (the “New Notes”). 22 Table of Contents On June 4, 2007, 2012 and 2017 and upon the occurrence of a change in control, holders of the remaining Old Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their Old Notes for cash. On June 4, 2008, 2013 and 2018 and upon the occurrence of a change in control, holders of the New Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their New Notes for cash. We may not have sufficient funds at the time of any such events to make the required repurchases. The source of funds for any repurchase required as a result of any such events will be our available cash or cash generated from operating activities or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling entity. We cannot assure you, however, that sufficient funds will be available at the time of any such events to make any required repurchases of the Notes tendered. Furthermore, the use of available cash to fund the repurchase of the Old Notes or New Notes may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The Growth Of Managed Care Organizations, Other Third-Party Reimbursement Policies, State Regulatory Agencies And Retailer Fulfillment Policies May Harm Our Pricing, Which May Reduce Our Market Share And Margins Our operating results and business success depend in large part on the availability of adequate third-party payor reimbursement to patients for our prescription-brand products. These third-party payors include governmental entities such as Medicaid, private health insurers and managed care organizations. Because of the size of the patient population covered by managed care organizations, marketing of prescription drugs to them and the pharmacy benefit managers that serve many of these organizations has become important to our business. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States and the growth of managed care organizations could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a reduction in product demand. Managed care organizations and other third party payors try to negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs. Managed care organizations and pharmacy benefit managers typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their lower costs, generic products are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one managed care organization to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical conditions. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization patient population. Payment or reimbursement of only a portion of the cost of our prescription products could make our products less attractive, from a net-cost perspective, to patients, suppliers and prescribing physicians. We cannot be certain that the reimbursement policies of these entities will be adequate for our pharmaceutical products to compete on a price basis. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share and gross margins could be harmed, as could our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Some of our products are not of a type generally eligible for reimbursement. It is possible that products manufactured by others could address the same effects as our products and be subject to reimbursement. If this were the case, some of our products may be unable to compete on a price basis. In addition, decisions by state regulatory agencies, including state pharmacy boards, and/or retail pharmacies may require substitution of generic for branded products, may prefer competitors’ products over our own, and may impair our pricing and thereby constrain our market share and growth. Managed care initiatives to control costs have influenced primary-care physicians to refer fewer patients to dermatologists and other specialists. Further reductions in these referrals could reduce the size of our potential market, and harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents We Are Subject To Extensive Governmental Regulation Pharmaceutical companies are subject to significant regulation by a number of national, state and local governments and agencies. The FDA administers requirements covering testing, manufacturing, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, sampling, advertising and promotion of our products. Several states have also instituted laws and regulations covering some of these same areas. In addition, the FTC and state and local authorities regulate the advertising of over-the-counter drugs and cosmetics. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in: • fines; • changes to advertising; • suspensions of regulatory approvals of products; • product recalls; • delays in product distribution, marketing and sale; and • civil or criminal sanctions. Our prescription and over-the-counter products receive FDA review regarding their safety and effectiveness. However, the FDA is permitted to revisit and change its prior determinations. We cannot be sure that the FDA will not change its position with regard to the safety or effectiveness of our products. If the FDA’s position changes, we may be required to change our labeling or formulations or cease to manufacture and market the challenged products. Even prior to any formal regulatory action, we could voluntarily decide to cease distribution and sale or recall any of our products if concerns about their safety or effectiveness develop. Before marketing any drug that is considered a “new drug” by the FDA, the FDA must provide its approval of the product. All products which are considered drugs which are not “new drugs” and that generally are recognized by the FDA as safe and effective for use do not require the FDA’s approval. We believe that some of our products, as they are promoted and intended for use, are exempt from treatment as “new drugs” and are not subject to approval by the FDA. The FDA, however, could take a contrary position, and we could be required to seek FDA approval of those products and the marketing of those products. We could also be required to withdraw those products from the market. Sales representative activities may also be subject to the Voluntary Compliance Guidance issued for pharmaceutical manufacturers by the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the Department of Health and Human Services, as well as state laws and regulations. We have established compliance program policies and training programs for our sales force, which we believe are appropriate. The OIG and / or state law enforcement entities, however, could take a contrary position, and we could be required to modify our sales representative activities. If We Market Products In A Manner That Violates Health Care Fraud And Abuse Laws, We May Be Subject To Civil Or Criminal Penalties Federal health care program anti-kickback statutes prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing, or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Although we believe that we are in compliance, our practices may be determined to fail to meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged 24 Table of Contents promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Obtaining FDA And Other Regulatory Approvals Is Time Consuming, Expensive And Uncertain The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is time consuming and expensive. Clinical trials are required and the marketing and manufacturing of pharmaceutical products are subject to rigorous testing procedures. We may not be able to obtain FDA approval to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture or market any of the products we develop, acquire or license on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, the costs to obtain approvals could be considerable, and the failure to obtain or delays in obtaining an approval could significantly harm our business performance and financial results. Even if pre-marketing approval from the FDA is received, the FDA is authorized to impose post-marketing requirements such as: • testing and surveillance to monitor the product and its continued compliance with regulatory requirements; • submitting products for inspection and, if any inspection reveals that the product is not in compliance, prohibiting the sale of all products from the same lot; • suspending manufacturing; • switching status from prescription to over-the-counter drug; • recalling products; and • withdrawing marketing clearance. In their regulation of advertising, the FDA and FTC from time to time issue correspondence to pharmaceutical companies alleging that some advertising or promotional practices are false, misleading or deceptive. The FDA has the power to impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for such advertising practices, and the receipt of correspondence from the FDA alleging these practices could result in the following: • incurring substantial expenses, including fines, penalties, legal fees and costs to comply with the FDA’s requirements; • changes in the methods of marketing and selling products; • taking FDA-mandated corrective action, which may include placing advertisements or sending letters to physicians rescinding previous advertisements or promotion; and • disruption in the distribution of products and loss of sales until compliance with the FDA’s position is obtained. In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in Congress and in some state legislatures that include major changes in the health care system. These proposals have included price or patient reimbursement constraints on medicines, restrictions on access to certain products, reimportation of products from Canada or other sources and mandatory substitution of generic for branded products. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives, and it is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting us. 25 Table of Contents We Face Significant Competition Within Our Industry The pharmaceutical and dermal aesthetics industries are highly competitive. Competition in our industry occurs on a variety of fronts, including: • developing and bringing new products to market before others; • developing new technologies to improve existing products; • developing new products to provide the same benefits as existing products at less cost; and • developing new products to provide benefits superior to those of existing products. The intensely competitive environment requires an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovations and the ability to market products effectively. Consequently, we must continue to develop and introduce products in a timely and cost-efficient manner to effectively compete in the marketplace and maintain our revenue and gross margins. Our competitors vary depending upon product categories. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies in the fields of pharmaceuticals, chemicals, cosmetics and health care. Our competitors include Allergan, Aventis, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Elan, Galderma, GlaxoSmithKline, Inamed, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Schering-Plough, Valeant Pharmaceuticals, Wyeth and others. Many of these companies have greater resources than we do to devote to marketing, sales, research and development and acquisitions. As a result, they have a greater ability to undertake more extensive research and development, marketing and pricing policy programs. It is possible that our competitors may develop new or improved products to treat the same conditions as our products or make technological advances reducing their cost of production so that they may engage in price competition through aggressive pricing policies to secure a greater market share to our detriment. These competitors also may develop products that make our current or future products obsolete. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, including reducing our market share, gross margins, and cash flows. We sell and distribute prescription brands, medical devices and over-the-counter products. Each of these products competes with products produced by others to treat the same conditions. Several of our prescription products compete with generic pharmaceuticals, which claim to offer equivalent benefit at a lower cost. In some cases, insurers and other health care payment organizations try to encourage the use of these less expensive generic brands through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement policies. These organizations may make the generic alternative more attractive to the patient by providing different amounts of reimbursement so that the net cost of the generic product to the patient is less than the net cost of our prescription brand product. Aggressive pricing policies by our generic product competitors and the prescription benefits policies of third party payors could cause us to lose market share or force us to reduce our gross margins in response. There are several dermal filler products under development and/or in the FDA pipeline for approval which claim to offer equivalent or greater facial aesthetic benefits to RESTYLANE® and, if approved, the companies producing such products could charge less to doctors for their products. 