Item 1A. Risk Factors Our statements in this report, other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), our press releases and in public statements of our officers and corporate spokespersons contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current events, and contain words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “will,” “plan,” “believe,” “should,” “outlook,” “could,” “target” and other words of similar meaning in connection with discussion of future operating or financial performance. These include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results. These statements are based on certain assumptions made by us based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. Such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements reflect the current views of senior management with respect to future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given, however, that these activities, events or developments will occur or that such results will be achieved, and actual results may vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statement. Any such forward-looking statements, whether made in this report or elsewhere, should be considered in context of the various disclosures made by us about our businesses including, without limitation, the risk factors discussed below. We do not plan to update any such forward-looking statements and expressly disclaim any duty to update the information contained in this filing except as required by law. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. Risks Related To Our Business Certain of our primary products could lose patent protection in the near future and become subject to competition from generic forms of such products. If that were to occur, sales of those products would decline significantly and such decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend upon patents to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for certain of our primary products for some period of time. If product patents for our primary products expire, or are successfully challenged by our competitors, in the United States and in other countries, we would face strong competition from lower price generic drugs. Loss of patent protection for any of our primary products would likely lead to a rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. In the case of products that contribute significantly to our sales, the loss of patent protection could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, while current patent coverage for SOLODYN® does not expire until 2018, SOLODYN® may face generic competition in the near future without prior notice if a generic competitor decides to enter the market notwithstanding the risk of a suit for patent infringement. Because SOLODYN® contains an antibiotic drug that was first approved by the FDA prior to the enactment of the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997, or FDAMA, SOLODYN® does not have the benefit of the protections offered under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Accordingly, we would not receive a Paragraph IV notice regarding SOLODYN® from any potential generic competitor and would not be entitled to an automatic 30-month stay of generic entry that would be available to a patent owner filing an infringement suit based on receipt of such a notice. We currently have one issued patent relating to SOLODYN®. As part of our patent strategy, we are currently pursuing additional patent protection for SOLODYN®. However, we cannot provide any assurance that any additional patents will be issued relating to SOLODYN® and the failure to obtain additional patent protection could adversely affect our ability to deter generic competition, which would adversely affect SOLODYN® revenue and our results of operations. On January 15, 2008, we announced that IMPAX Laboratories, Inc. (“IMPAX”) announced that IMPAX sent us a letter advising that IMPAX has filed an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market a generic version of SOLODYN® (minocycline HCl) extended-release capsules. IMPAX has not advised us as to the status of the FDA’s review of its filing, or whether IMPAX has complied with recent FDA requirements for proving bioequivalence. Also on January 15, 2008, IMPAX filed a lawsuit against US in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California seeking a declaratory judgment that our U.S. Patent No. 5,908,838 related to SOLODYN® is invalid and is not infringed by IMPAX’s ANDA for a generic version of SOLODYN®. In addition to SOLODYN®, many of our primary prescription products may be subject to generic competition in the 15 Table of Contents near future. If any of our primary products are rendered obsolete or uneconomical by competitive changes, including generic competition, our results of operation would be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to secure and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, or if our intellectual property rights are found to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of other parties, our business could suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that the protection of our trademarks and service marks is an important factor in product recognition and in our ability to maintain or increase market share. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks and service marks from infringement, their value to us could be lost or diminished. If the marks we use are found to infringe upon the trademark or service mark of another company, we could be forced to stop using those marks and, as a result, we could lose the value of those marks and could be liable for damages caused by an infringement. The patents and patent applications in which we have an interest may be challenged as to their validity or enforceability or infringement. Any such challenges may result in potentially significant harm to our business and enable generic entry to markets for our products. The cost of responding to any such challenges and the cost of prosecuting infringement claims and any related litigation, could be substantial. In addition, any such litigation also could require a substantial commitment of our management’s time. On January 15, 2008, IMPAX filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California seeking a declaratory judgment that our U.S. Patent No. 5,908,838 related to SOLODYN® is invalid and is not infringed by IMPAX’s filing of an ANDA for a generic version of SOLODYN®. See Item 3 of Part I of this report, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 15, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements listed under Item 15 of Part IV of this report, “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules,” for information concerning our current intellectual property litigation. We are pursuing several United States patent applications; although we cannot be sure that any of these patents will ever be issued. For example, on November 6, 2007, we received notification of a non-final rejection from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office relating to certain patent applications that we filed relating to SOLODYN®. We responded promptly to the non-final rejections and are continuing our vigorous efforts to obtain additional patent protection for SOLODYN®. We also have acquired rights under certain patents and patent applications in connection with our licenses to distribute products and by assignment of rights to patents and patent applications from certain of our consultants and officers. These patents and patent applications may be subject to claims of rights by third parties. If there are conflicting claims to the same patent or patent application, we may not prevail and, even if we do have some rights in a patent or patent application, those rights may not be sufficient for the marketing and distribution of products covered by the patent or patent application. The ownership of a patent or an interest in a patent does not always provide significant protection. Others may independently develop similar technologies or design around the patented aspects of our technology. We only conduct patent searches to determine whether our products infringe upon any existing patents when we think such searches are appropriate. As a result, the products and technologies we currently market, and those we may market in the future, may infringe on patents and other rights owned by others. If we are unsuccessful in any challenge to the marketing and sale of our products or technologies, we may be required to license the disputed rights, if the holder of those rights is willing to license such rights, otherwise we may be required to cease marketing the challenged products, or to modify our products to avoid infringing upon those rights. A claim or finding of infringement regarding one of our products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs of responding to infringement claims could be substantial and could require a substantial commitment of our management’s time. The expiration of patents may expose our products to additional competition. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing and manufacturing many of our primary products. It is our policy to require all of our employees, consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements prohibiting them from taking or disclosing our proprietary information and technology. Nevertheless, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for 16 Table of Contents our trade secrets and proprietary know-how if they are used or disclosed. Despite all of the precautions we may take, people who are not parties to confidentiality agreements may obtain access to our trade secrets or know-how. In addition, others may independently develop similar or equivalent trade secrets or know-how. We depend on licenses from others, and any loss of such licenses could harm our business, market share and profitability. We have acquired the rights to manufacture, use and market certain products, including certain of our primary products. We also expect to continue to obtain licenses for other products and technologies in the future. Our license agreements generally require us to develop a market for the licensed products. If we do not develop these markets within specified time frames, the licensors may be entitled to terminate these license agreements. We may fail to fulfill our obligations under any particular license agreement for various reasons, including insufficient resources to adequately develop and market a product, lack of market development despite our diligence and lack of product acceptance. Our failure to fulfill our obligations could result in the loss of our rights under a license agreement. Our inability to continue the distribution of any particular licensed product could harm our business, market share and profitability. Also, certain products we license are used in connection with other products we own or license. A loss of a license in such circumstances could materially harm our ability to market and distribute these other products. Obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is time consuming, expensive and uncertain. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is time consuming and expensive. Clinical trials are required and the marketing and manufacturing of pharmaceutical products are subject to rigorous testing procedures. We may not be able to obtain FDA approval to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture or market any of the products we develop, acquire or license on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, the costs to obtain approvals could be considerable, and the failure to obtain or delays in obtaining an approval could significantly harm our business performance and financial results. The FDA vigorously monitors the ongoing safety of products, which can affect the approvability of our products or the continued ability to market our products. For example, the FDA recently stated it was reviewing the safety of two botulinum toxin products currently marketed in the U.S. Even if pre-marketing approval from the FDA is received, the FDA is authorized to impose post-marketing requirements such as: • testing and surveillance to monitor the product and its continued compliance with regulatory requirements; • submitting products for inspection and, if any inspection reveals that the product is not in compliance, prohibiting the sale of all products from the same lot; • suspending manufacturing; • switching status from prescription to over-the-counter drug; • recalling products; and • withdrawing marketing clearance. In their regulation of advertising, the FDA and FTC from time to time issue correspondence to pharmaceutical companies alleging that some advertising or promotional practices are false, misleading or deceptive. The FDA has the power to impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for such advertising practices, and the receipt of correspondence from the FDA alleging these practices could result in the following: • incurring substantial expenses, including fines, penalties, legal fees and costs to comply with the FDA’s requirements; • changes in the methods of marketing and selling products; • taking FDA-mandated corrective action, which may include placing advertisements or sending letters to physicians rescinding previous advertisements or promotion; and 17 Table of Contents • disruption in the distribution of products and loss of sales until compliance with the FDA’s position is obtained. In recent years, various legislative proposals have been offered in Congress and in some state legislatures that include major changes in the health care system. These proposals have included price or patient reimbursement constraints on medicines, restrictions on access to certain products, reimportation of products from Canada or other sources and mandatory substitution of generic for branded products. We cannot predict the outcome of such initiatives, and it is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting us. If we market products in a manner that violates health care fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. Federal health care program anti-kickback statutes prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing, or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Although we believe that we are in compliance, our practices may be determined to fail to meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. On April 25, 2007, we entered into a Settlement Agreement with the Justice Department, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”) and the TRICARE Management Activity (collectively, the “United States”) and private complainants to settle all outstanding federal and state civil suits against us in connection with claims related to our alleged off-label marketing and promotion of LOPROX® and LOPROX® TS products to pediatricians during periods prior to our May 2004 disposition of our pediatric sales division (the “Settlement Agreement”). The settlement is neither an admission of liability by us nor a concession by the United States that its claims are not well founded. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, we agreed to pay approximately $10 million to settle the matter. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, the United States released us from the claims asserted by the United States and agreed to refrain from instituting action seeking exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid, the TRICARE Program and other federal health care programs for the alleged conduct. These releases relate solely to the allegations related to us and do not cover individuals. The Settlement Agreement also provides that the private complainants release us and our officers, directors and employees from the asserted claims, and we release the United States and the private complainants from asserted claims. As part of the settlement, we have entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement (the “CIA”) with the OIG to resolve any potential administrative claims the OIG may have arising out of the government’s investigation. The CIA acknowledges the existence of our comprehensive existing compliance program and 18 Table of Contents provides for certain other compliance-related activities during the term of the CIA, including the maintenance of a compliance program that, among other things, is designed to ensure compliance with the CIA, federal health care programs and FDA requirements. Pursuant to the CIA, we are required to notify the OIG, in writing, of: (i) any ongoing government investigation or legal proceeding involving an allegation that we have committed a crime or has engaged in fraudulent activities; (ii) any other matter that a reasonable person would consider a probable violation of applicable criminal, civil, or administrative laws; (iii) any written report, correspondence, or communication to the FDA that materially discusses any unlawful or improper promotion of our products; and (iv) any change in location, sale, closing, purchase, or establishment of a new business unit or location related to items or services that may be reimbursed by Federal health care programs. We are also subject to periodic reporting and certification requirements attesting that the provisions of the CIA are being implemented and followed, as well as certain document and record retention mandates. We have hired a Chief Compliance Officer and created an enterprise-wide compliance function to administer our obligations under the CIA. Failure to comply under the CIA could result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and being excluded from government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On or about October 12, 2006, we and the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Kansas entered into a Nonprosecution Agreement wherein the government agreed not to prosecute us for any alleged criminal violations relating to the alleged off-label marketing and promotion of LOPROX®. In exchange for the government’s agreement not to pursue any criminal charges against us, we agreed to continue cooperating with the government in its ongoing investigation into whether past and present employees and officers may have violated federal criminal law regarding alleged off-label marketing and promotion of LOPROX® to pediatricians. As a result of the investigation, prosecutions and other proceedings, certain past and present sales and marketing employees and officers are likely to separate from the Company and, together with the cost of their defense, fines and penalties, could have a material impact on our reputation, business and financial condition. See Item 3 of Part I of this report, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 15, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements listed under Item 15 of Part IV of this report, “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules,” for information concerning our current litigation. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations. The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the United States and in foreign countries. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe to be current best practices, we cannot assure you that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations and/or laws a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, we have entered into a five-year CIA with the OIG. The CIA acknowledges the existence of our comprehensive existing compliance program and provides for certain other compliance-related activities during the term of the CIA, including the maintenance of a compliance program that, among other things, is designed to ensure compliance with the CIA, federal health care programs and FDA requirements. Pursuant to the CIA, we are required to notify the OIG, in writing, of: (i) any ongoing government investigation or legal proceeding involving an allegation that we have committed a crime or has engaged in fraudulent activities; (ii) any other matter that a reasonable person would consider a probable violation of applicable criminal, civil, or administrative laws; (iii) any written report, correspondence, or communication to the FDA that materially discusses any unlawful or improper promotion of our products; and (iv) any change in location, sale, closing, purchase, or establishment of a new business unit or location related to items or services that may be reimbursed by Federal health care programs. We are also subject to periodic reporting and certification requirements attesting that the provisions of the CIA are being implemented and followed, as well as certain document and record retention mandates. We have hired a Chief Compliance Officer and created an enterprise-wide compliance function to administer our obligations under the CIA. Failure to comply under the CIA could result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and being excluded from government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of customers, and if we lose any of them, our business could be harmed. Our customers include some of the United States’ leading wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, such as Cardinal, McKesson, and major drug chains. During 2007, McKesson and Cardinal accounted for 52.2% and 16.9%, respectively, of our net revenues. During 2006, McKesson and Cardinal accounted for 56.8% and 19.3%, respectively, of our net revenues. During the Transition Period, McKesson and Cardinal accounted for 54.9% and 18.9%, respectively, of our net revenues. During fiscal 2005, McKesson and Cardinal accounted for 51.2%, and 21.8%, respectively, of our net revenues. The loss of either of these customers’ accounts or a material reduction in their purchases could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may face pricing pressure from our customers. McKesson is our sole distributor of our RESTYLANE® and PERLANE® products in the United States and Canada. We are in the process of negotiating arrangements with wholesalers for fixed-term purchases. To date we have been unable to agree to terms with Cardinal Health. While such arrangements are not necessary for wholesale purchases, if we are unable to come to terms with any wholesalers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents We derive a majority of our sales from our primary products, and any factor adversely affecting sales of these products would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the prescription volume of our primary prescription products, in particular, SOLODYN® and ZIANA®, and sales of our dermal aesthetic products, RESTYLANE® and PERLANE®, will continue to constitute a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any factor adversely affecting our sales related to these products, individually or collectively, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. On June 5, 2006, Allergan announced that the FDA had approved its JuvédermTM dermal filler family of products. Allergan began marketing these products in January 2007. Other dermal filler products, such as Artefill®, Radiesse®, Sculptra® and ElevessTM have also recently been approved by the FDA. Patients may differentiate these products from RESTYLANE® and PERLANE® based on price, efficacy and/or duration, which may appeal to some patients. In addition, there are several dermal filler products under development and/or in the FDA pipeline for approval which claim to offer equivalent or greater facial aesthetic benefits to RESTYLANE® and PERLANE® and, if approved, the companies producing such products could charge less to doctors for their products. On January 15, 2008, we announced that IMPAX announced that IMPAX sent us a letter advising that IMPAX has filed an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market a generic version of SOLODYN® (minocycline HCl) extended-release capsules. IMPAX has not advised us as to the status of the FDA’s review of its filling, or whether IMPAX has complied with recent FDA requirements for proving bioequivalence. Also on January 15, 2008, IMPAX filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California seeking a declaratory judgment that our U.S. Patent No. 5,908,838 related to SOLODYN® is invalid and is not infringed by IMPAX’s ANDA for a generic version of SOLODYN®. Sales related to our primary prescription products, including SOLODYN® and ZIANA®, and sales of our dermal restorative products, RESTYLANE® and PERLANE® could also be adversely affected by other factors, including: • manufacturing or supply interruptions; • the development of new competitive pharmaceuticals and technological advances to treat the conditions addressed by our primary products, including the introduction of new products into the marketplace; • generic competition; • marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our competitors; • regulatory action by the FDA and other government regulatory agencies; • importation of other dermal fillers; • changes in the prescribing or procedural practices of dermatologists, plastic surgeons and/or podiatrists; • changes in the reimbursement or substitution policies of third-party payors or retail pharmacies; • product liability claims; • the outcome of disputes relating to trademarks, patents, license agreements and other rights; • changes in state and federal law that adversely affect our ability to market our products to dermatologists, plastic surgeons and/or podiatrists; and • restrictions on travel affecting the ability of our sales force to market to prescribing physicians and plastic surgeons in person. Our continued growth depends upon our ability to develop new products. We have internally developed potential pharmaceutical compounds and agents. We also have acquired the rights to certain potential compounds and agents in various stages of development. We currently have a variety of new products in various stages of research and development and are working on possible improvements, extensions and reformulations of some existing products. These research and development activities, as well as the clinical testing and regulatory approval process, which must be completed before commercial quantities of these developments can be sold, will require significant commitments of personnel and financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop a product or technology in a timely manner, or at all. Delays in the research, development, testing or approval processes will cause a corresponding delay in revenue generation from those products. Regardless of whether they are ever released to the market, the expense of such processes will have already been incurred. For example, on January 30, 2008, we received a letter from the FDA stating that, upon a preliminary review of our BLA for the botulinum toxin type A, RELOXIN®, in aesthetics, the FDA has determined 20 Table of Contents not to accept the BLA for filing because it is not sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. While we are uncertain of the impact at this time, the FDA’s determination not to accept the BLA may result in delays in the FDA’s substantive response to the BLA. We reevaluate our research and development efforts regularly to assess whether our efforts to develop a particular product or technology are progressing at a rate that justifies our continued expenditures. On the basis of these reevaluations, we have abandoned in the past, and may abandon in the future, our efforts on a particular product or technology. Products that we research or develop may not be successfully commercialized. If we fail to take a product or technology from the development stage to market on a timely basis, we may incur significant expenses without a near-term financial return. We have in the past, and may in the future, supplement our internal research and development by entering into research and development agreements with other pharmaceutical companies. We may, upon entering into such agreements, be required to make significant up-front payments to fund the projects. We cannot be sure, however, that we will be able to locate adequate research partners or that supplemental research will be available on terms acceptable to us in the future. If we are unable to enter into additional research partnership arrangements, we may incur additional costs to continue research and development internally or abandon certain projects. Even if we are able to enter into collaborations, we cannot assure you that these arrangements will result in successful product development or commercialization. There is also a risk that our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community generally. The degree of market acceptance of any medical device or other product that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including demonstrated clinical efficacy and safety, cost-effectiveness, potential advantages over alternative products, and our marketing and distribution capabilities. Physicians will not recommend our products until clinical data or other factors demonstrate their safety and efficacy compared to other competing products. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of using our products is established, physicians may elect to not recommend using them for any number of other reasons, including whether our products best meet the particular needs of the individual patient. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons. The following events or occurrences, among others, could cause fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period: • development of new competitive products or generics by others; • the timing and receipt of FDA approvals or lack of approvals; • changes in the amount we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses; • costs related to business development transactions; • untimely contingent research and development payments under our third-party product development agreements; • changes in the amount we spend to promote our products; • delays between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses; • changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently prescribe our products; • changes in reimbursement policies of health plans and other similar health insurers, including changes that affect newly developed or newly acquired products; • increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products; • manufacturing and supply interruptions, including failure to comply with manufacturing specifications; • changes in prescription levels and the effect of economic changes in hurricane and other natural disaster-affected areas; • the impact on our employees, customers, patients, manufacturers, suppliers, vendors, and other companies we do business with and the resulting impact on the results of operations associated 21 Table of Contents with the possible mutation of the avian form of influenza from birds or other animal species to humans, current human morbidity, and mortality levels persist following such potential mutation; • the mix of products that we sell during any time period; • lower than expected demand for our products; • our responses to price competition; • expenditures as a result of legal actions, including the defense of our patents and other intellectual property; • market acceptance of our products; • the impairment and write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets; • implementation of new or revised accounting or tax rules or policies; • disposition of primary products, technologies and other rights; • termination or expiration of, or the outcome of disputes relating to, trademarks, patents, license agreements and other rights; • increases in insurance rates for existing products and the cost of insurance for new products; • general economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and investments that affect customer demand; • seasonality of demand for our products; • our level of research and development activities; • new accounting standards and/or changes to existing accounting standards that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows; • costs and outcomes of any tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; and • timing of revenue recognition related to licensing agreements and/or strategic collaborations. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. The above factors may cause our operating results to fluctuate and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our investments in other companies and our collaborations with companies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have made substantial investments in companies and entered into significant collaborations with companies. We may use these and other methods to develop or commercialize products in the future. These arrangements typically involve other pharmaceutical companies as partners that may be competitors of ours in certain markets. In many instances, we will not control these companies or collaborations, and cannot assure you that these ventures will be profitable or that we will not lose any or all of our invested capital. If these investments and collaborations provide to unsuccessful, our results of operations could materially suffer. Our profitability is impacted by our continued participation in governmental pharmaceutical pricing programs. In order for our products to receive reimbursement by state Medicaid programs, we must participate in the Medicaid drug rebate program. Participation in the program requires us to provide a rebate for each unit of our products that is reimbursed by Medicaid. Rebate amounts for our products are determined by a statutory formula that is based on prices defined by statute: average manufacturer price (“AMP”), which we must calculate for all products that are covered outpatient drugs under the Medicaid program, and best price, which we must calculate only for those of our covered outpatient drugs that are innovator products. We are required to report AMP and best price for each of our covered outpatient drugs to the government on a regular basis. In July 2007, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), the federal agency that is responsible for administering the Medicaid drug rebate program, issued a final rule that, among other things, clarifies how manufacturers must calculate both AMP and best price and implements new requirements under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 on the use of AMP to calculate federal upper limits on pharmacy reimbursement amounts under the Medicaid program. These upper limits are used to determine ceilings placed on the amounts that state Medicaid programs can pay for certain prescription drugs using federal dollars. We cannot predict the full impact of these changes, which became 22 Table of Contents effective in part on January 1, 2007 and in part on October 1, 2007, on our business, nor can we predict whether there will be additional federal legislative or regulatory proposals to modify current Medicaid rebate rules. To receive reimbursement under state Medicaid programs for our products, we also are required by federal law to provide discounts under other pharmaceutical pricing programs. For example, we are required to enter into a Federal Supply Schedule (“FSS”) contract with the Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”) under which we must make our covered drugs available to the “Big Four” federal agencies — the VA, the Department of Defense, the Public Health Service, and the Coast Guard — at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory Federal ceiling price (“FCP”) formula set forth in the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 (“VHCA”). The FCP is based on a weighted average wholesaler price known as the “non-federal average manufacturer price,” which manufacturers are required to report on a quarterly and annual basis to the VA. FSS contracts are federal procurement contracts that include standard government terms and conditions and separate pricing for each product. In addition to the Big Four agencies, all other federal agencies and some non-federal entities are authorized to access FSS contracts. FSS contractors are permitted to charge FSS purchasers other than the Big Four agencies “negotiated pricing” for covered drugs that is not capped by the VHCA formula; instead, such pricing is negotiated based on a mandatory disclosure of the contractor’s commercial “most favored customer” pricing. Medicis chooses to offer one single FCP-based FSS contract price for each product to the Big Four agencies as well as all to other FSS purchasers. Medicis also offers products that are not VHCA covered drugs on its FSS contract at negotiated pricing. All items on FSS contracts are subject to a standard FSS contract clause that requires FSS contract price reductions under certain circumstances where pricing to an agreed “tracking customer” is reduced. To receive reimbursement under state Medicaid programs for our products, we also are required by federal law to provide discounted purchase prices under the Public Health Service Drug Pricing Program to certain categories of entities defined by statute. The formula for determining the discounted purchase price is defined by statute and is based on the AMP and rebate amount for a particular product as calculated under the Medicaid drug rebate program, discussed above. To the extent that the statutory and regulatory definitions of AMP and the Medicaid rebate amount change as a result of the Deficit Reduction Act and final rule discussed above, these changes also could impact the discounted purchase prices that we are obligated to provide under this program. We cannot predict the full impact of these changes, which became effective in part on January 1, 2007 and in part on October 1, 2007, on our business, nor can we predict whether there will be additional federal legislative or regulatory proposals to modify current Medicaid rebate rules which then could impact this program as well. Our profitability may be impacted by our ongoing review of our prior reports under certain Federal pharmaceutical pricing programs. Under the terms of our Medicaid drug rebate program agreement and our VA Federal Supply Schedule (“FSS”) contract and related pricing agreements required under the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, we are required to accurately report our pharmaceutical pricing data, which is based, in part, on accurate classifications of our customers’ classes of trade. On May 1, 2007, and on May 15, 2007, we notified the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Veterans Affairs, respectively, that we may have misclassified certain of our customers’ classes of trade, which could affect the prices previously reported under the Medicaid drug rebate program and/or prices on our VA FSS contract. We have been reviewing this issue and have identified certain customer class of trade misclassifications. We are therefore undertaking a review and recalculation of our Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Prices (“Non-FAMPs”) and related Federal Ceiling Prices, Average Manufacturer Prices (“AMPs”), and Best Prices (“BPs”) for a period going back at least (3) years to determine the impact, if any, that reclassification of customers to appropriate classes of trade might have on these reported prices. In doing the recalculation, we will generally review the methodologies for computing the reported prices, the classification of products under the various programs, and any other potentially significant issues identified in the course of the review. We also are conducting a review of our administration of obligations under the Price Reductions Clause in our FSS contract with the VA. It is unclear whether any issue that may be identified during this review may result in any changes to our Medicaid rebate liability for prior quarters or to prices paid under the FSS, or any penalties, or whether any such changes or penalties would have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines if clinical trials for our products are unsuccessful, delayed, or additional information is required by the FDA. 23 Table of Contents The production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trials activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we and/or our partners must demonstrate through pre-clinical testing and clinical trials that our products are safe and effective for use in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling and record-keeping procedures. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. Our commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: • lack of efficacy during the clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; • slower than expected patient recruitment; • failure of Medicis, investigators, or other contractors to strictly adhere to federal regulations governing the conduct and data collection procedures involved in clinical trials; • development of issues that might delay or impede performance by a contractor; • errors in clinical documentation or at the clinical locations; • non-acceptance by the FDA of our NDAs, ANDAs or BLAs. For example, on January 30, 2008, we received a letter from the FDA stating that, upon a preliminary review of our BLA for the botulinum toxin type A, RELOXIN®, in aesthetics, the FDA has determined not to accept the BLA for filing because it is not sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. While we are uncertain of the impact at this time, the FDA’s determination not to accept the BLA may result in delays in the FDA’s substantive response to the BLA; • government or regulatory delays; and • unanticipated requests from the FDA for new or additional information. The results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials are often not predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new products have shown promising results in clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of many factors, including perceived defects in the design of the clinical trials and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials could materially and adversely affect our development and commercialization timelines, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Downturns in general economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business, including our dermal restorative and branded prescription products, may be adversely affected by downturns in general economic conditions. Economic conditions such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, energy and fuel costs, consumer confidence and tax rates could change consumer purchasing habits or reduce personal discretionary spending. A reduction in consumer spending may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 Table of Contents The current condition of the credit markets may not allow us to secure financing for potential future activities on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our existing cash and short-term investments are available for dividends, strategic investments, acquisitions of companies or products complimentary to our business, the repayment of outstanding indebtedness, repurchases of our outstanding securities and other potential large-scale needs. While we believe existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations, should be sufficient to meet operating requirements for the foreseeable future, we may also consider incurring additional indebtedness and issuing additional debt or equity securities in the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to refinance existing debt or for general corporate purposes. As a result of recent subprime loan losses and write-downs, as well as other economic trends in the credit market industry, we may not be able to secure additional financing for future activities on satisfactory terms, or at all, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Negative conditions in the credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our short-term and long-term investments. Our short-term and long-term investments consist of corporate and various government agency and municipal debt securities and auction rate floating securities. As of December 31, 2007, our short-term investments included $101.7 million of auction rate floating securities. Our auction rate floating securities are debt instruments with a long-term maturity and with an interest rate that is reset in short intervals through auctions. The recent negative conditions in the credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings, including their holdings of auction rate floating securities. During February 2008 we were informed that there was insufficient demand at auction for approximately $43.6 million of our auction rate floating securities. As a result, these affected auction rate floating securities are now not considered liquid, and we could be required to hold them until they are redeemed by the holder at maturity. The negative credit markets may affect our other auction rate floating securities as they cycle through the auction process. We may not be able to make the securities liquid until a future auction on these investments is successful. At this time, we have not obtained sufficient evidence to conclude that the fair value of these auction rate floating securities is less than their carrying value or that they will not be settled in the short-term, although the market for these investments is currently uncertain. All of our auction rate auction rate floating securities held as of December 31, 2007 successfully re-set at auction at the first auction interval subsequent to December 31, 2007, and we subsequently liquidated approximately $56.8 million of our auction rate floating securities at par. As of February 26, 2008, we had approximately $44.9 million of auction rate floating securities. If Q-Med is unable to protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights with respect to our dermal filler products, our business could suffer. RESTYLANE®, PERLANE®, RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM and SubQTM currently have patent protection in the United States until 2015, and the exclusivity period of the license granted to us by Q-Med will terminate on the later of (i) the expiration of the last patent covering the products or (ii) upon the licensed know-how becoming publicly known. If the validity or enforceability of these patents is successfully challenged, the cost to us could be significant and our business may be harmed. For example, if any such challenges are successful, Q-Med may be unable to supply products to us. As a result, we may be unable to market, distribute and commercialize the products or it may no longer be profitable for us to do so. We may not be able to collect all scheduled license payments from BioMarin. As part of our asset purchase agreement, license agreement and securities purchase agreement with BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (“BioMarin”) discussed in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, BioMarin will make license payments to us of $1.75 million per quarter for the two quarters beginning in January 2008 and $1.5 million per quarter for the subsequent four quarters beginning in July 2008. While we did receive all scheduled quarterly license payments during 2007, 2006, the Transition Period and fiscal 2005, we cannot give any assurances as to BioMarin’s continuing ability to make these payments to us. Currently, our revenue recognition of these payments is on a cash basis. In addition, while we expect BioMarin to make the final payment of $70.6 million to us in 2009 for the purchase of all of the outstanding shares of Ascent Pediatrics, we cannot give any assurances as to BioMarin’s ability to make this payment. Should BioMarin be unable or unwilling to make the required payments, we may be required to record an impairment of the 25 Table of Contents related Ascent goodwill. If BioMarin defaults on its obligations to make the required payments, we may be forced to incur indebtedness or otherwise reallocate our financial resources to cover the loss of these expected cash payments. We depend upon our key personnel and our ability to attract, train, and retain employees. Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our senior management team, and Jonah Shacknai, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, in particular. While we have entered into employment agreements with many members of our senior management team, the loss of the services of any member of our senior management for any reason or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and harm our operating results. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to hire, train and retain skilled employees. Competition for these employees is intense. We may acquire (whether by acquisition, license or otherwise) technologies, products and companies in the future and these acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not obtain the benefits that the acquisitions were intended to create. As part of our business strategy, we regularly consider and, as appropriate, make acquisitions (whether by acquisition, license or otherwise) of technologies, products and companies that we believe are complementary to our business. Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and companies acquired, and may result in significant charges to earnings. If we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions with our existing business, or we otherwise make an acquisition that does not result in the benefits that we anticipated, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, which would adversely affect our ability to develop and introduce new products and the market price of our stock. In addition, in connection with acquisitions, we could experience disruption in our business or employee base, or key employees of companies that we acquire may seek employment elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, the products of companies we acquire may overlap with our products or those of our customers, creating conflicts with existing relationships or with other commitments that are detrimental to the combined businesses. We may not be able to identify and acquire products, technologies and businesses on acceptable terms, if at all, which may constrain our growth. Our strategy for continued growth includes the acquisition of products, technologies and businesses. These acquisitions could involve acquiring other pharmaceutical companies’ assets, products or technologies. In addition, we may seek to obtain licenses or other rights to develop, manufacture and distribute products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition or licensing candidates, if they will be accretive in the near future, or if any will be available on acceptable terms. Other pharmaceutical companies, with greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we have, are also attempting to grow through similar acquisition and licensing strategies. Because of their greater resources, our competitors may be able to offer better terms for an acquisition or license than we can offer, or they may be able to demonstrate a greater ability to market licensed products. In addition, even if we identify potential acquisitions and enter into definitive agreements relating to such acquisitions, we may not be able to consummate planned acquisitions on the terms originally agreed upon or at all. For example, on March 20, 2005, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger with Inamed, pursuant to which we agreed to acquire Inamed. On December 13, 2005, we entered into a merger termination agreement with Inamed following Allergan Inc.’s exchange offer for all outstanding shares of Inamed, which was commenced on November 21, 2005. Our success depends on our ability to manage our growth. We have experienced a period of rapid growth from both acquisitions and internal expansion of our operations. This growth has placed significant demands on our human and financial resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information controls and systems and effectively motivate, train and manage our employees to properly manage this growth. If we do not manage this growth effectively, maintain the quality of our products despite the demands on our resources and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed. 26 Table of Contents Implementation of our new enterprise resource planning system could cause business interruptions and negatively affect our profitability and cash flows. During 2007, we began developing and implementing a new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system to integrate and improve the financial and operational aspects of our business. A significant portion our new ERP system began to be utilized on January 1, 2008. The design and implementation of an ERP system, which will continue in 2008, involves risks such as cost overruns, project delays and business interruption. A significant amount of our resources have been committed to the ERP project, and we may experience challenges in designing and implementing the new ERP system that could adversely affect our operations and our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our financial position. If we experience a material business interruption as a result of our design and implementation of our new ERP system, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. The consolidation of drug wholesalers could increase competition and pricing pressures throughout the pharmaceutical industry. We sell our pharmaceutical products primarily through major wholesalers. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions. As a result, a smaller number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. In addition, the number of independent drug stores and small chains has decreased as retail consolidation has occurred. Further consolidation among, or any financial difficulties of, distributors or retailers could result in the combination or elimination of warehouses which may result in product returns to us, cause a reduction in the inventory levels of distributors and retailers, result in reductions in purchases of our products or increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on others to manufacture our products. Currently, we outsource all of our product manufacturing needs. Typically, our manufacturing contracts are short-term. We are dependent upon renewing agreements with our existing manufacturers or finding replacement manufacturers to satisfy our requirements. As a result, we cannot be certain that manufacturing sources will continue to be available or that we can continue to outsource the manufacturing of our products on reasonable or acceptable terms. The underlying cost to us for manufacturing our products is established in our agreements with these outside manufacturers. Because of the short-term nature of these agreements, our expenses for manufacturing are not fixed and could change from contract to contract. If the cost of production increases, our gross margins could be negatively affected. In addition, we rely on outside manufacturers to provide us with an adequate and reliable supply of our products on a timely basis. Loss of a supplier or any difficulties that arise in the supply chain could significantly affect our inventories and supply of products available for sale. We do not have alternative sources of supply for all of our products. If a primary supplier of any of our primary products is unable to fulfill our requirements for any 27 Table of Contents reason, it could reduce our sales, margins and market share, as well as harm our overall business and financial results. If we are unable to supply sufficient amounts of our products on a timely basis, our revenues and market share could decrease and, correspondingly, our profitability could decrease. Under several exclusive supply agreements, with certain exceptions, we must purchase most of our product supply from specific manufacturers. If any of these exclusive manufacturer or supplier relationships were terminated, we would be forced to find a replacement manufacturer or supplier. The FDA requires that all manufacturers used by pharmaceutical companies comply with the FDA’s regulations, including the cGMP regulations applicable to manufacturing processes. The cGMP validation of a new facility and the approval of that manufacturer for a new drug product may take a year or more before manufacture can begin at the facility. Delays in obtaining FDA validation of a replacement manufacturing facility could cause an interruption in the supply of our products. Although we have business interruption insurance to assist in covering the loss of income for products where we do not have a secondary manufacturer, which may mitigate the harm to us from the interruption of the manufacturing of our largest selling products caused by certain events, the loss of a manufacturer could still cause a reduction in our sales, margins and market share, as well as harm our overall business and financial results. We and our third-party manufacturers rely on a limited number of suppliers of the raw materials of our products. A disruption in supply of raw material would be disruptive to our inventory supply. We and the manufacturers of our products rely on suppliers of raw materials used in the production of our products. Some of these materials are available from only one source and others may become available from only one source. We try to maintain inventory levels that are no greater than necessary to meet our current projections, which could have the affect of exacerbating supply problems. Any interruption in the supply of finished products could hinder our ability to timely distribute finished products. If we are unable to obtain adequate product supplies to satisfy our customers’ orders, we may lose those orders and our customers may cancel other orders and stock and sell competing products. This, in turn, could cause a loss of our market share and reduce our revenues. In addition, any disruption in the supply of raw materials or an increase in the cost of raw materials to our manufacturers could have a significant effect on their ability to supply us with our products, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We could experience difficulties in obtaining supplies of RESTYLANE®, PERLANE®, RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM and SubQTM. The manufacturing process to create bulk non-animal stabilized hyaluronic acid necessary to produce RESTYLANE®, PERLANE®, RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM and SubQTM products is technically complex and requires significant lead-time. Any failure by us to accurately forecast demand for finished product could result in an interruption in the supply of RESTYLANE®, PERLANE®, RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM and SubQTM products and a resulting decrease in sales of the products. We depend exclusively on Q-Med for our supply of RESTYLANE®, PERLANE®, RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM and SubQTM products. There are currently no alternative suppliers of these products. Q-Med has committed to supply RESTYLANE® to us under a long-term license that is subject to customary conditions and our delivery of specified milestone payments. Q-Med manufactures RESTYLANE®, PERLANE®, RESTYLANE FINE LINESTM and SubQTM at its facility in Uppsala, Sweden. We cannot be certain that Q-Med will be able to meet our current or future supply requirements. Any impairment of Q-Med’s manufacturing capacities could significantly affect our inventories and our supply of products available for sale, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Supply interruptions may disrupt our inventory levels and the availability of our products. Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of our finished products, including: • timing, scheduling and prioritization of production by our contract manufacturers; • labor interruptions; • changes in our sources for manufacturing; • the timing and delivery of domestic and international shipments; • our failure to locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed on a timely basis; • conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials; and • hurricanes and other natural disasters. We estimate customer demand for our prescription products primarily through use of third party syndicated data sources which track prescriptions written by health care providers and dispensed by licensed pharmacies. The data represents extrapolations from information provided only by certain pharmacies, and are estimates of historical demand levels. We estimate customer demand for our non-prescription products primarily through internal data that we compile. We observe trends from these data, and, coupled with certain proprietary information, prepare demand forecasts that are the basis for purchase orders for finished and component inventory from our third party manufacturers and suppliers. Our forecasts may fail to accurately anticipate ultimate customer demand for products. Overestimates of demand may result in excessive inventory production and underestimates may result in inadequate supply of our products in channels of distribution. We sell our products primarily to major wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains. Approximately 65-75% of our gross revenues are typically derived from two major drug wholesale concerns. While we attempt to estimate inventory levels of our products at our major wholesale customers by using written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers, historical prescription information and historical purchase patterns, this process is inherently imprecise. We rely wholly upon our wholesale and drug chain customers to effect the distribution allocation of substantially all of our products. We periodically offer promotions to wholesale and chain drugstore customers to encourage dispensing of our prescription products, consistent with prescriptions written by licensed health care providers. Because many of our prescription products compete in multi-source markets, it is important for us to ensure the licensed health care providers’ dispensing instructions are fulfilled with our branded products and are not substituted with a generic product or another therapeutic alternative product which may be contrary to the licensed health care providers’ recommended prescribed Medicis brand. We believe that a critical component of our brand protection program is maintenance of full product availability at drugstore and wholesale customers. We believe such availability reduces the probability of local and regional product substitutions, shortages and backorders, which could result in lost sales. We expect to continue providing favorable terms to wholesale and retail drug chain customers as may be necessary to ensure the fullest possible distribution of our branded products within the pharmaceutical chain of commerce. We cannot control or influence greatly the purchasing patterns of our wholesale and retail drug chain customers. They are highly sophisticated customers that purchase our products in a manner consistent with their industry practices and, presumably, based upon their projected demand levels. Purchases by any given customer, during any given period, may be above or below actual prescription volumes of any of our products during the same period, resulting in fluctuations in product inventory in the distribution channel. Any decision made by management to reduce wholesale inventory levels will decrease our product revenue. Fluctuations in demand for our products create inventory maintenance uncertainties. We schedule our inventory purchases to meet anticipated customer demand. As a result, miscalculation of customer demand or relatively small delays in our receipt of manufactured products could result in revenues being deferred or lost. Our operating expenses are based upon anticipated sales levels, and a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Depending on the customer, we recognize revenue at the 29 Table of Contents time of shipment to the customer, or at the time of receipt by the customer, net of estimated provisions. Consequently, variations in the timing of revenue recognition could cause significant fluctuations in operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated periodic earnings shortfalls or losses. We selectively outsource certain non-sales and non-marketing services, and cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate supplies of such services on acceptable terms. To enable us to focus on our core marketing and sales activities, we selectively outsource certain non-sales and non-marketing functions, such as laboratory research, manufacturing and warehousing. As we expand our activities, we expect to expend additional financial resources in these areas. We typically do not enter into long-term manufacturing contracts with third party manufacturers. Whether or not such contracts exist, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate supplies of such services or products in a timely fashion, on acceptable terms, or at all. Importation of products from Canada and other countries into the United States may lower the prices we receive for our products. Our products are subject to competition from lower priced versions of our products and competing products from Canada and other countries where government price controls or other market dynamics result in lower prices. The ability of patients and other customers to obtain these lower priced imports has grown significantly as a result of the Internet, an expansion of pharmacies in Canada and elsewhere targeted to American purchasers, the increase in United States-based businesses affiliated with Canadian pharmacies marketing to American purchasers, and other factors. Most of these foreign imports are illegal under current United States law. However, the volume of imports continues to rise due to the limited enforcement resources of the FDA and the United States Customs Service, and there is increased political pressure to permit the imports as a mechanism for expanding access to lower priced medicines. In December 2003, Congress enacted the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This law contains provisions that may change United States import laws and expand consumers’ ability to import lower priced versions of our and competing products from Canada, where there are government price controls. These changes to United States import laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will lead to substantial savings for consumers and will not create a public health safety issue. The former Secretary of Health and Human Services did not make such a certification. However, it is possible that the current Secretary or a subsequent Secretary could make the certification in the future. As directed by Congress, a task force on drug importation recently conducted a comprehensive study regarding the circumstances under which drug importation could be safely conducted and the consequences of importation on the health, medical costs and development of new medicines for United States consumers. The task force issued its report in December 2004, finding that there are significant safety and economic issues that must be addressed before importation of prescription drugs is permitted, and the current Secretary has not yet announced any plans to make the required certification. In addition, federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the United States import laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. Even if the changes to the United States import laws do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from Canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the FDA, the United States Customs Service and other government agencies. The importation of foreign products adversely affects our profitability in the United States. This impact could become more significant in the future, and the impact could be even greater if there is a further change in the law or if state or local governments take further steps to facilitate the importation of products from abroad. If we become subject to product liability claims, our earnings and financial condition could suffer. We are exposed to risks of product liability claims from allegations that our products resulted in adverse effects to the patient or others. These risks exist even with respect to those products that are approved for commercial sale by the FDA and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by the FDA. 30 Table of Contents In addition to our desire to reduce the scope of our potential exposure to these types of claims, many of our customers require us to maintain product liability insurance as a condition of conducting business with us. We currently carry product liability insurance in the amount of $50.0 million per claim and $50.0 million in the aggregate on a claims-made basis. Nevertheless, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all claims made against us. Insurance coverage is expensive and may be difficult to obtain. As a result, we cannot be certain that our current coverage will continue to be available in the future on reasonable terms, if at all. If we are liable for any product liability claims in excess of our coverage or outside of our coverage, the cost and expense of such liability could cause our earnings and financial condition to suffer. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety of our products, our sales may be harmed and we may be forced to withdraw products. Physicians and potential patients may have a number of concerns about the safety of our products, whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research. Negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products could reduce market or governmental acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand or product withdrawal. In addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. Rising insurance costs could negatively impact profitability. The cost of insurance, including workers compensation, product liability and general liability insurance, have risen significantly in recent years and may increase in the future. In response, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease certain coverages to mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. RESTYLANE® and PERLANE® are consumer products and as such, are susceptible to changes in popular trends and applicable laws, which could adversely affect sales or product margins of RESTYLANE®and PERLANE®. RESTYLANE® and PERLANE® are consumer products. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react to competitive products or if consumer preferences in the cosmetic marketplace shift to other treatments for the treatment of fine lines, wrinkles and deep facial folds, we may experience a decline in demand for RESTYLANE® and PERLANE®. In addition, the popular media has at times in the past produced, and may continue in the future to produce, negative reports regarding the efficacy, safety or side effects of facial aesthetic products. Consumer perceptions of RESTYLANE® and PERLANE® may be negatively impacted by these reports and other reasons. Demand for RESTYLANE® and PERLANE® may be materially adversely affected by changing economic conditions. Generally, the costs of cosmetic procedures are borne by individuals without reimbursement from their medical insurance providers or government programs. Individuals may be less willing to incur the costs of these procedures in weak or uncertain economic environments, and demand for RESTYLANE® and PERLANE® could be adversely affected. We may not be able to repurchase the Old Notes and New Notes when required. In June 2002, we sold Contingent Convertible Senior Notes, due in 2032 (the “Old Notes”), in the amount of $400.0 million. In August 2003, we exchanged approximately $230.8 million in principal of these Old Notes for approximately $283.9 million of our Contingent Convertible Senior Notes due in 2033 (the “New Notes”). On June 4, 2012 and 2017 or upon the occurrence of a change in control, holders of the remaining Old Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their Old Notes for cash. On June 4, 2008, 2013 and 2018 or upon the occurrence of a change in control, holders of the New Notes may require us to offer to repurchase their New Notes for cash. If a significant portion of the holders of the New Notes require us to repurchase their New Notes on June 4, 2008, we may not have sufficient funds on June 4, 2008 or at the time of any such events to make the required repurchases. If all of the New Notes are put back to us on June 4, 2008, we would be required to pay $283.9 million in outstanding principal, plus outstanding accrued interest. We would also be required to pay an 31 Table of Contents accumulated deferred tax liability related to the New Notes. The deferred tax liability related to the New Notes as of December 31, 2007 was $30.6 million. The source of funds for any repurchase required as a result of any such events will be our available cash or cash generated from operating activities or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling entity. We cannot assure you, however, that sufficient funds will be available at the time of any such events to make any required repurchases of the Notes tendered. If sufficient funds are not available to repurchase the Notes, we may be forced to incur other indebtedness or otherwise reallocate our financial resources. Furthermore, the use of available cash to fund the repurchase of the Old Notes or New Notes may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. Our publicly-filed reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us, and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies’ public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and other foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in or interpretations of tax laws including pending tax law changes (such as the research and development credit and the deductibility of executive compensation), changes in our manufacturing activities and changes in our future levels of research and development spending. In addition, we are subject to the periodic examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these periodic examinations will not have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and estimated income tax liabilities. Risks Related to Our Industry The growth of managed care organizations, other third-party reimbursement policies, state regulatory agencies and retailer fulfillment policies may harm our pricing, which may reduce our market share and margins. Our operating results and business success depend in large part on the availability of adequate third-party payor reimbursement to patients for our prescription-brand products. These third-party payors include governmental entities such as Medicaid, private health insurers and managed care organizations. Because of the size of the patient population covered by managed care organizations, marketing of prescription drugs to them and the pharmacy benefit managers that serve many of these organizations has become important to our business. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States and the growth of managed care organizations could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a reduction in product demand. Managed care organizations and other third party payors try to negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs. Managed care organizations and pharmacy benefit managers typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their lower costs, generic products are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one managed care organization to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical conditions. Exclusion 32 Table of Contents of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization patient population. Payment or reimbursement of only a portion of the cost of our prescription products could make our products less attractive, from a net-cost perspective, to patients, suppliers and prescribing physicians. We cannot be certain that the reimbursement policies of these entities will be adequate for our pharmaceutical products to compete on a price basis. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share and gross margins could be harmed, as could our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Some of our products are not of a type generally eligible for reimbursement. It is possible that products manufactured by others could address the same effects as our products and be subject to reimbursement. If this were the case, some of our products may be unable to compete on a price basis. In addition, decisions by state regulatory agencies, including state pharmacy boards, and/or retail pharmacies may require substitution of generic for branded products, may prefer competitors’ products over our own, and may impair our pricing and thereby constrain our market share and growth. Managed care initiatives to control costs have influenced primary-care physicians to refer fewer patients to dermatologists and other specialists. Further reductions in these referrals could reduce the size of our potential market, and harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Pharmaceutical companies are subject to significant regulation by a number of national, state and local governments and agencies. The FDA administers requirements covering testing, manufacturing, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, sampling, advertising and promotion of our products. Several states have also instituted laws and regulations covering some of these same areas. In addition, the FTC and state and local authorities regulate the advertising of over-the-counter drugs and cosmetics. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in: • fines; • changes to advertising; • suspensions of regulatory approvals of products; • product recalls; • delays in product distribution, marketing and sale; and • civil or criminal sanctions. Our prescription and over-the-counter products receive FDA review regarding their safety and effectiveness. However, the FDA is permitted to revisit and change its prior determinations. We cannot be sure that the FDA will not change its position with regard to the safety or effectiveness of our products. If the FDA’s position changes, we may be required to change our labeling or formulations or cease to manufacture and market the challenged products. Even prior to any formal regulatory action, we could voluntarily decide to cease distribution and sale or recall any of our products if concerns about their safety or effectiveness develop. Before marketing any drug that is considered a “new drug” by the FDA, the FDA must provide its approval of the product. All products which are considered drugs which are not “new drugs” and that generally are recognized by the FDA as safe and effective for use do not require the FDA’s approval. We believe that some of our products, as they are promoted and intended for use, are exempt from treatment as “new drugs” and are not subject to approval by the FDA. The FDA, however, could take a contrary position, and we could be required to seek FDA approval of those products and the marketing of those products. We could also be required to withdraw those products from the market. For example, in the August 29, 2006 Federal Register, the FDA issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to categorically establish that over-the-counter skin bleaching drug products are not generally recognized as safe and effective and are misbranded. If the proposed rule is adopted, all manufacturers of skin bleaching products would be required to remove their products from the market and obtain FDA approval prior to 33 Table of Contents re-entering the U.S. market. The FDA has issued a Guidance document entitled “Marketed Unapproved Drugs – Compliance Policy Guide.” During a public workshop on January 9, 2007 concerning this Guidance, the FDA was reported to have stated the intention to accelerate its evaluation of such products. ESOTERICA® is an over-the-counter product line that we sell that contains bleaching products that would be regulated by the proposed rule and if that occurs we do not currently intend to invest in obtaining an approved NDA for this product line. This product accounted for approximately $2.2 million in net revenues during 2007. Sales representative activities may also be subject to the Voluntary Compliance Guidance issued for pharmaceutical manufacturers by the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the Department of Health and Human Services, as well as state laws and regulations. We have established compliance program policies and training programs for our sales force, which we believe are appropriate. The OIG and/or state law enforcement entities, however, could take a contrary position, and we could be required to modify our sales representative activities. See Item 3 of Part I of this report, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 15, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements listed under Item 15 of Part IV of this report, “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules,” for information concerning our current litigation. We face significant competition within our industry. The pharmaceutical and dermal aesthetics industries are highly competitive. Competition in our industry occurs on a variety of fronts, including: • developing and bringing new products to market before others; • developing new technologies to improve existing products; • developing new products to provide the same benefits as existing products at less cost; and • developing new products to provide benefits superior to those of existing products. The intensely competitive environment requires an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovations and the ability to market products effectively. Consequently, we must continue to develop and introduce products in a timely and cost-efficient manner to effectively compete in the marketplace and maintain our revenue and gross margins. Our competitors vary depending upon product categories. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies in the fields of pharmaceuticals, chemicals, cosmetics and health care. Among our largest competitors are Allergan, Galderma, Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi-Aventis, Stiefel Laboratories, Warner Chilcott and others. Many of these companies have greater resources than we do to devote to marketing, sales, research and development and acquisitions. As a result, they have a greater ability to undertake more extensive research and development, marketing and pricing policy programs. It is possible that our competitors may develop new or improved products to treat the same conditions as our products or make technological advances reducing their cost of production so that they may engage in price competition through aggressive pricing policies to secure a greater market share to our detriment. These competitors also may develop products that make our current or future products obsolete. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, including reducing our market share, gross margins, and cash flows. We sell and distribute prescription brands, medical devices and over-the-counter products. Each of these products competes with products produced by others to treat the same conditions. Several of our prescription products compete with generic pharmaceuticals, which claim to offer equivalent benefit at a lower cost. In some cases, insurers and other health care payment organizations try to encourage the use of these less expensive generic brands through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement policies. These organizations may make the generic alternative more attractive to the patient by providing different amounts of reimbursement so that the net cost of the generic product to the patient is less than the net cost of our prescription brand product. Aggressive pricing policies by our generic product competitors and the prescription benefits policies of third party payors could cause us to lose market share or force us to reduce our gross margins in response. 34 Table of Contents There are several dermal filler products under development and/or in the FDA pipeline for approval, including products from Johnson & Johnson and Mentor, which claim to offer equivalent or greater facial aesthetic benefits to RESTYLANE® and, if approved, the companies producing such products could charge less to doctors for their products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of 2007 and that remain unresolved. 