ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As a result of our investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our previously-filed financial statements, we are subject to civil litigation claims and regulatory investigations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition. As previously described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 filed on August 7, 2007, we conducted an investigation into our historical stock option practices and related accounting. Based upon the findings of the investigation, we restated our financial statements for each of the years ended June 30, 1993 through June 30, 2005, and have restated our financial statements for the interim first three quarters of fiscal 2006 as well. Our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed and may continue to expose us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government inquiries and enforcement actions, as described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Any of these actions could result in civil and/or criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against us and the payment of significant fines and penalties by us. In addition, the restatements of our previous financial results and the ongoing regulatory proceedings and government inquiries could impact our relationships with customers and our ability to generate revenues. We face risks related to Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Department of Justice, or DOJ, and other investigations into our historical stock option grant practices and related accounting, which could require significant management time and attention, and could require us to pay fines or other penalties. The Department of Justice is currently conducting an investigation of us in connection with our investigation into our stock option grant practices and related issues, and we are subject to a subpoena from the DOJ. We are also subject to a formal investigation from the SEC on the same issue. We have been cooperating with, and continue to cooperate with, inquiries from the SEC and DOJ. In addition, our 401(k) plan and its administration are being audited by the Department of Labor as a result of actions taken in response to the findings from our investigation. The Department of Labor has recently advised us that because of the appointment of an independent fiduciary for the 401(k) plan, and assuming the Company will provide the Department of Labor with relevant information concerning any claims that may be brought, the Department of Labor will take no future action with respect to the 401(k) plan’s potential claims arising from its investment in Company stock. We are unable to predict what consequences, if any, that any investigation by any regulatory agency may have on us. Any regulatory investigation could result in substantial legal and accounting expenses, divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business. Any civil or criminal action commenced against us by a regulatory agency could result in administrative orders against us, the imposition of significant penalties and/or fines against us, and/or the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions against certain of our former officers, directors and/or employees. Any regulatory action could result in the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements or require that we take other actions. If we are subject to an adverse finding resulting from the SEC and DOJ investigations, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or 10 Table of Contents have other remedies imposed upon us. The period of time necessary to resolve the investigations by the DOJ and the SEC is uncertain, and these matters could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. We have been named as a party to derivative action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which will require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Trident has been named as a nominal defendant in several purported shareholder derivative lawsuits concerning the granting of stock options. The federal court cases have been consolidated as In re Trident Microsystems Inc. Derivative Litigation, Master File No. C-06-3440-JF. A case also has been filed in State court, Limke v. Lin et al., No. 1:07-CV-080390. Plaintiffs in all cases allege that certain of our current or former officers and directors caused us to grant options at less than fair market value, contrary to our public statements (including our financial statements); and that this represented a breach of their fiduciary duties to us, and as a result those officers and directors are liable to us. No particular amount of damages has been alleged, and by the nature of the lawsuit no damages will be alleged against us. Our Board of Directors has appointed a Special Litigation Committee (“SLC”) composed solely of independent directors to review and manage any claims that we may have relating to the stock option grant practices and related issues investigated by the Special Committee. The scope of the SLC’s authority includes the claims asserted in the derivative actions. In federal court, Trident has moved to stay the case pending the assessment by the SLC that was formed to consider nominal plaintiffs’ claims. In State court, Trident moved to stay the case in deference to the federal lawsuit, and the parties have agreed, with the Court’s approval, to take that motion off the Court’s calendar to await the assessment of the SLC. We cannot predict whether these actions are likely to result in any material recovery by, or expense to, Trident. We expect to continue to incur legal fees in responding to these lawsuits, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. The expense of defending such litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve this and any additional lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to the risks of additional lawsuits in connection with our historical stock option grant practices and related issues, the resulting restatements, and the remedial measures we have taken. In addition to the possibilities that there may be additional governmental actions and shareholder lawsuits against us, we may be sued or taken to arbitration by former officers and employees in connection with their stock options, employment terminations and other matters. These lawsuits may be time consuming and expensive, and cause further distraction from the operation of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of our business could be adversely affected by the departure of certain executives and the search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer. We have experienced certain departures of key personnel, including our former Chief Executive Officer, in connection with the investigation into our historical stock option grant practices and related issues. Two of our directors also resigned as a result of potential conflicts of interest identified during the stock option investigation. While we have appointed one of our directors, Glen Antle, as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Acting Chief Executive Officer, we have not retained a permanent Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Antle is available to assist us on a part time basis only. We are also searching for additional personnel to add to our management team and to our Board of Directors, and have recently retained two individuals as a General Counsel and a Chief Accounting Officer and two additional independent directors have been elected to our Board of Directors. While we do not believe that our business has been adversely affected by these changes to date, it is important to our success that we identify a permanent Chief Executive Officer. Our failure to manage these transitions, or to find and retain experienced management personnel, could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our operating results. The process of restating our financial statements, making the associated disclosures, and complying with SEC requirements are subject to uncertainty and evolving requirements. The issues surrounding our historical stock option grant practices are complex. We did not pre-clear our filings with the SEC, and if the SEC determined to review our filings, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to amend our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 and the restatements included therein. In addition to the cost and time to amend financial reports, such amendments may have a material adverse affect on investors and common stock price. 11 Table of Contents We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. We continue to spend an increasing amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestations of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by our independent registered public accounting firm. We have incurred additional costs, and expect such costs to continue in part in the future, in connection with the documentation, review, evaluation and attestation of our internal control systems and procedures and considering improvements that may be necessary in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. We continue to have material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely. As a result of the Special Committee’s investigation, and as part of our evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2007, we concluded that there existed material weaknesses in a number of areas in our system of internal controls and procedures as of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, as described below under Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” These material weaknesses were first identified as a result of our evaluation of our internal control over financial report as of June 30, 2006, and have not yet been fully remediated. The Board of Directors previously directed management to implement, and management is continuing to implement, measures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our periodic reports is complete, and is recorded, processed, and summarized accurately and reported timely, and that information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Acting Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our management, including our Acting Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and implemented, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues within a company are detected. The inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns in reporting or controls can occur because of simple error or mistakes, and errors discovered by personnel within control systems may not be properly disclosed and addressed. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. As a result, although we expect to fully remediate the material weaknesses identified in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” below, during the second quarter of fiscal 2008, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Due to the failure to meet continued listing standards, we may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, which could adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. As a result of the delayed filing of our periodic reports with the SEC, on October 2, 2006, we received a Nasdaq staff determination letter indicating that we had failed to comply with the filing requirement for continued listing set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), due to our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2006, and that our securities are, therefore, subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market. We received and announced three additional Nasdaq staff determination letters 12 Table of Contents with respect to our failure to timely file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first, second and third quarters of fiscal 2007. We requested and subsequently attended a hearing before the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel (Listing Panel), which was held on November 16, 2006, to appeal the staff determination and presented a plan to cure the three filing deficiencies and regain compliance. On January 16, 2007, Nasdaq notified us that the exception had been granted, and that it would continue to list our shares on the Nasdaq Global Market, provided that we file our Form 10-K for fiscal 2006, our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, and all required restatements on or before April 2, 2007. Although we were unable to meet the requirement to file all required restatements by April 2, 2007, we appealed this decision to the Nasdaq Listing and Hearing Review Council (“Listing Council”), which decided to review the decision of the Listing Panel, and stayed the decision to suspend our securities from trading, pending further action by the Listing Council. On July 6, 2007, we received the decision of the Listing Council concerning our appeal of the Listing Panel’s decision described above. In its decision, the Listing Council exercised its maximum discretionary authority and according to the limits of its authority, under Marketplace Rule 4802(b), granted us an extension to demonstrate compliance with all of the Nasdaq continued listing requirements until July 16, 2007. We have submitted a request to the Nasdaq Board of Directors for a further extension of time, beyond July 16, 2007, by which we must come into compliance with all of the listing requirements, and requested a continued stay of the decision to delist our common stock. On August 17, 2007, the Nasdaq Board of Directors informed us of its decision to provide us until September 13, 2007 to file all delinquent periodic reports necessary to regain compliance with the listing requirements. As a result of filing, on August 21, 2007, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended September 30, 2006, December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, we believe that we have now filed all of our delinquent reports. We have also requested an extension of time from the Listing Panel within which to comply with the requirement to hold an annual meeting of shareholders, to solicit proxies and to provide proxy statements to Nasdaq. The Nasdaq Board of Directors has determined that if we regain compliance with our filing requirements, it will remand the matter back to the Listing Panel for further consideration of the extension of time within which to hold an annual meeting of shareholders. Our success depends upon the digital media market and we must continue to develop new products and to enhance our existing products. The digital media industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, and changes in customer requirements. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate market needs and develop products that address those needs. As a result, our products could quickly become obsolete if we fail to predict market needs accurately or develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner. The long-term success in the digital media business will depend on the introduction of successive generations of products in time to meet the design cycles as well as the specifications of television original equipment manufacturers. Our failure to predict market needs accurately or to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner will harm market acceptance and sales of our products. If the development or enhancement of these products or any other future products takes longer than we anticipate, or if we are unable to introduce these products to market, our sales will not increase. Even if we are able to develop and commercially introduce these new products, the new products may not achieve widespread market acceptance necessary to provide an adequate return on our investment. We depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of, or a significant reduction or cancellation in sales to, any key customer would significantly reduce our revenues. We are and will continue to be dependent on a limited number of distributors and customers for a substantial amount of our revenue. Sales to Asian customers, primarily in Japan, South Korea, China and Taiwan, accounted for 93% of our revenues in fiscal 2007. Sales to Asian customers, primarily in Japan, South Korea, China and Taiwan, accounted for 95% of our revenues in fiscal 2006. Sales to Asian customers, primarily in China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan accounted for 97% of our revenues in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2007, approximately 66% of our revenues were derived from sales to two customers, Samsung and Midoriya (a distributor for Sony), and each individually accounted for more than 10% of total revenues during this period. Of these customers, Samsung accounted for approximately 41% and Midoriya accounted for approximately 25%. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer and will likely continue to fluctuate dramatically in the future. Accordingly, the loss of or reductions in purchases of our products by any of these customers could cause our revenues to decline during the period and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We may be unable to replace any such lost revenues by sales to any new customers or increased sales to existing customers. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate 13 Table of Contents our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: • substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; • our customers may develop their own solutions; • our customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; or • our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. We currently rely on certain international customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and are subject to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. As a result of our focus on digital media products, we expect to be primarily dependent on international sales and operations, particularly in Taiwan, Japan, South Korea and China, which are expected to continue to constitute a significant portion of our sales in the future. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, which could adversely affect future results, including: • exchange rate variations, tariffs, import restrictions and other trade barriers; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing distributors or representatives; • political and economic instability, civil unrest, war or terrorist activities that impact international commerce; • potential adverse tax consequences; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; and • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Our international sales currently are U.S. dollar-denominated. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. Our dependence on sales to distributors increases the risks of managing our supply chain and may result in excess inventory or inventory shortages. Currently, the majority of our sales through distributors are made through distributors in Japan who function as purchasing conduits for each of two large Japanese OEM customers. In these two cases, we also have a direct relationship with the respective OEM customer, but generally the distributors also take certain inventory positions and resell to their OEM customers. On the other hand, in a smaller proportion of our distributor sales, we do have a more traditional distributor relationship that involves the distributor taking inventory positions and reselling to multiple customers. With all distributor relationships, we do not recognize revenue until the distributors sell the product through to their end user customers. The more traditional distributor relationships do reduce our ability to forecast sales and increases risks to our business. Since our distributors act as intermediaries between us and the end user customers, we must rely on our distributors to accurately report inventory levels and production forecasts. This requires us to manage a more complex supply chain and monitor the financial condition and credit worthiness of our distributors and the end user customers. Our failure to manage one or more of these risks could result in excess inventory or shortages that could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may lead to significant variances in the demand for our products. In the past, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. The semiconductor industry has also experienced fluctuations in anticipation of changes in general economic conditions, including economic conditions in Asia. These cycles have resulted in significant variations and fluctuations in product demand and production capacity, and may have added to the decline in average selling prices per unit. We may experience periodic fluctuations in our future financial results due to similar changes and fluctuations in industry-wide conditions and the semiconductor industry in general. 14 Table of Contents Intense competition exists in the market for digital media products. We plan to continue developing the next generation of DPTV and HiDTV, as well as other advanced products for digital TV and digital STB for the digital media market in the United States, China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Europe. We believe the digital media market will remain competitive, and will require us to incur substantial research and development, technical support, sales and other expenditures to stay competitive in this market. In the digital media market, our principal competitors are captive solutions from large TV OEMs as well as merchant solutions from Toshiba, NXP Semiconductors, Micronas AG, Pixelworks, Inc., Genesis Microchip, Inc., Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (formerly ATI Technologies Inc.), Zoran Corporation, ST Microelectronics, Morningstar, and Media Tek, Ltd. Certain of our current competitors and many potential competitors have significantly greater technical, manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we have. Therefore, we expect to devote significant resources to the DPTV and HiDTV market even though competitors are substantially more experienced than we are in this market. The level and intensity of competition has increased over the past year and we expect competition to continue to increase in the future. Competitive pressures caused by the current economic conditions have resulted in reductions in average selling prices of our products, and continued or increased competition could reduce our market share, require us to further reduce the prices of our products, affect our ability to recover costs or result in reduced gross margins. The average selling prices of our products may decline over relatively short periods. Average selling prices for our products may decline over relatively short time periods, while many of our costs are fixed. On average, we have experienced average selling price declines over the course of 12 months of anywhere from approximately 10-20% per year in reductions part for part to average selling price of a given product. This annual pace of price decline for products or technology is generally expected in the consumer electronics industry. It is also possible for the pace of average selling price declines to accelerate beyond these levels for certain products in a commoditizing market. When our average selling prices decline, our gross profits decline unless we are able to sell more products or reduce the cost to manufacture our products. We generally attempt to combat average selling price declines by designing new products for reduced costs, innovating to integrate additional functions or features and working with our manufacturing partners to reduce the costs of manufacturing existing products. We have in the past and may in the future experience declining sales prices, which could negatively impact our revenues, gross profits and financial results. We therefore need to sell our current products in increasing volumes to offset any decline in their average selling prices, and introduce new products with improved gross margins, which we may be unable to do, or do on a timely basis. We do not have long-term commitments from our customers, and plan purchases based upon our estimates of customer demand, which may require us to contract for the manufacture of our products based on inaccurate estimates. Our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our customers may cancel or defer purchases at any time. This requires us to forecast demand based upon assumptions that may not be correct. If our customers or we overestimate demand, we may create inventory that we may not be able to sell or use, resulting in excess inventory, which could become obsolete or negatively affect our operating results. Conversely, if our customers or we underestimate demand, or if sufficient manufacturing capacity is not available, we may lose revenue opportunities, damage customer relationships and we may not achieve expected revenue. If we do not achieve additional design wins in the future, our ability to sell additional products could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on manufacturers of desktop and notebook PCs, consumer televisions and other digital media products designing our products into their products. To achieve design wins, we must define and deliver cost-effective, innovative and high performance integrated circuits. Once a supplier’s products have been designed into a system, the manufacturer may be reluctant to change components due to costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and determining performance capabilities of the component. Customers can choose at any time to discontinue using our products in their designs or product development efforts. Once a particular supplier’s product is selected, the manufacturer generally relies for a significant period of time upon this component. Accordingly, we may face narrow windows of opportunity to be selected as the supplier of component parts by significant new customers. It may be difficult for us to sell to a particular customer for a significant period of time once that customer selects a competitor’s product, and we may not be successful in obtaining broader acceptance of our products. If we are unable to achieve broader market acceptance of our products, we may be unable to maintain and grow our business and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents We have had fluctuations in quarterly results in the past and may continue to experience such fluctuations in the future. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors including: • uncertain demand in the digital media markets in which we have limited experience; • fluctuations in demand for our products, including seasonality; • unexpected product returns or the cancellation or rescheduling of significant orders; • our ability to develop, introduce, ship and support new products and product enhancements and to manage product transitions; • new product introductions by our competitors; • seasonality, particularly in the third quarter of each fiscal year (March quarter), due to the extended holidays relating to the Chinese New Year; • our ability to achieve required cost reductions; • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; • delayed new product introductions; • unfavorable responses to new products; • adverse economic conditions, particularly in Asia; • the mix of products sold and the mix of distribution channels through which they are sold; and • unexpected costs associated with our investigation of our historical stock option grant practices and related issues, and any related litigation or regulatory actions. These factors are often difficult or impossible to forecast or predict, and these or other factors could cause our revenue and expenses to fluctuate over interim periods, increase our operating expenses, or adversely affect our results of operations or business condition. We are vulnerable to undetected product problems. Although we establish and implement test specifications, impose quality standards upon our suppliers and perform separate application-based compatibility and system testing, our products may contain undetected defects, which may or may not be material, and which may or may not have a feasible solution. Although we have experienced such errors in the past, significant errors have generally been detected relatively early in a product’s life cycle and therefore the costs associated with such errors have been immaterial. We cannot ensure that such errors will not be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may materially adversely affect our business by causing us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and causing significant customer relations problems. Defects or other performance problems in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers or could damage market acceptance of our products. Our customers could seek damages from us for their losses as a result of problems with our products. Our reliance upon independent foundries could make it difficult to maintain product flow and affect our sales. If the demand for our products grows, we will need to increase our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions. Any disruptions in product flow could limit our ability to meet orders, impact our revenue and our ability to increase sales, adversely affect our competitive position and reputation and result in additional costs or cancellation of orders. We do not own or operate fabrication facilities and do not manufacture our products internally. We currently rely principally upon one third-party foundry to manufacture our products in wafer form and other contract manufacturers for assembly and testing of our products. Generally, we place orders by purchase order, and foundries are not obligated to manufacture our products on a long-term fixed-price basis, so they are not obligated to supply us with products for any specific period of time, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Our requirements typically represent only a small portion of the total production capacity of our contract manufacturers. Our contract manufacturers could re-allocate capacity to other customers, even during periods of high demand for our products. We have limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, potential errors in manufacturing and production costs. If we encounter shortages and delays in obtaining components, our ability to meet customer orders would be materially adversely affected. In addition, during periods of increased demand, putting pressure on the foundries to meet orders, we may have reduced control over pricing and timely delivery of 16 Table of Contents components, and if the foundries increase the cost of components or subassemblies, our margins will be adversely affected, and we may not have alternative sources of supply to manufacture such components. Constraints or delays in the supply of our products, whether because of capacity constraints, unexpected disruptions at the foundries or assembly or testing houses, delays in additional production at existing foundries or in obtaining additional production from existing or new foundries, shortages of raw materials, or other reasons, could result in the loss of customers and other material adverse effects on our operating results, including effects that may result should we be forced to purchase products from higher cost foundries or pay expediting charges to obtain additional supply. In addition, to the extent we elect to use multiple sources for certain products, customers may be required to qualify multiple sources, which could adversely affect the customers’ desire to design-in our products. If we have to qualify a new contract manufacturer or foundry for any of our products, we may experience delays that result in lost revenues and damaged customer relationships. We rely on a single supplier to manufacture our products in wafer form. The lead time required to establish a relationship with a new foundry is long, and it takes time to adapt a product’s design to a particular manufacturer’s processes. Accordingly, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for any specific product. This could cause significant delays in shipping products if we have to change our source of supply and manufacture quickly, which may result in lost revenues and damaged customer relationships. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. Factors such as new product announcements by us or our competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and unfavorable conditions in the digital media market, as well as the results of our investigation of our historical stock option grant practices and related issues, and any litigation or regulatory actions arising as a result, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These conditions, as well as factors that generally affect the market for stocks and stocks in high-technology companies in particular, could cause the price of our stock to fluctuate from time to time or to decline. Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued employment of key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of the principal members of our technical sales, marketing, engineering and management personnel, many of whom perform important management functions and would be difficult to replace. We are also currently searching for a new Chief Executive Officer, and are relying on the services of our Acting Chief Executive Officer. In addition, we depend upon the continued services of key management personnel at our overseas subsidiaries. Our officers and key employees are not bound by employment agreements for any specific term, and may terminate their employment at any time. In order to continue to expand our product offerings both in the U.S. and abroad, we must hire and retain a number of research and development personnel. Hiring technical sales personnel in our industry is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our technologies. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Competition for highly skilled personnel continues to be increasingly intense, particularly in the areas where we principally operate, specifically in Shanghai, China; Taipei, Taiwan; and Northern California. If we are not successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs, our business may be harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which may be difficult. The digital media market is a highly competitive industry in which we, and most other participants, rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect proprietary rights. The competitive nature of our industry, rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards heighten the importance of protecting proprietary technology rights. Since the United States Patent and Trademark Office keeps patent applications confidential until a patent is issued, our pending patent applications may attempt to protect proprietary technology claimed in a third party patent application. Our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies as policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as U.S. law. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents or other intellectual property. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology rights, others may be able to use our proprietary technology without having to compensate us, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our ability to compete effectively. We have in the past, and may in the future, file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation or resulting counterclaims, we could lose our proprietary rights and incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant 17 Table of Contents management time and attention. In addition, failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity and our ability to compete effectively. We have been involved in intellectual property infringement claims, and may be involved in others in the future, which can be costly. Our industry is very competitive and is characterized by frequent litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in our industry have already been issued and as the market further develops and additional intellectual property protection is obtained by participants in our industry, litigation is likely to become more frequent. From time to time, third parties have asserted and are likely in the future to assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies or rights that are important to our business. Historically we have been involved in such disputes. For example, Trident was sued by MIPS Technologies, Inc. in federal court in the Northern District of California for patent infringement, trademark infringement and unfair competition. The case was filed on December 1, 2006 as MIPS Technologies, Inc. v. Trident Microsystems, Inc., Civ. No. 3:06-CV-07377-MMC. The parties reached a confidential business resolution and the case was dismissed with prejudice on April 5, 2007. In addition, we have and may in the future enter into agreements to indemnify our customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of patents, trademarks or copyrights of third parties. Litigation or other disputes or negotiations arising from claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, whether with or without merit, has been and may in the future be, time-consuming, resulting in significant expenses and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We do not have insurance against our alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property of others. Any such claims that may be filed against us in the future, if resolved adversely to us, could cause us to stop sales of our products which incorporate the challenged intellectual property and could also result in product shipment delays or require us to redesign or modify our products or to enter into licensing agreements. These licensing agreements, if required, would increase our product costs and may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If there is a successful claim of infringement or we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on a timely and reasonable basis, our business could be harmed. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business We conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the State of California, Taiwan and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. This coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. A major earthquake or other disaster affecting our suppliers’ facilities and our administrative offices could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities and our administrative offices; these delays could be lengthy and result in large expenses. In addition, our administrative offices in the State of California may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. Any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. In addition, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any natural disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. The effect of terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases may negatively affect sales and hinder our operations Concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and Avian Influenza, especially in our major markets in China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and result in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. Changes in our business organization will affect our operations. Our principal design, development and marketing effort focuses primarily on our digital media products. These products are now our only product line and our success in the near term depends upon the growth of the market for these products and our success in this market. Our success in the longer term will also depend on our ability to develop and introduce other digital media products. We plan to continue developing the next generation DPTV and HDTV, as well as other advanced products for digital TV and digital STB for the digital media market in the United States, China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Europe. While we anticipate this market to generate an increasing percentage of our revenues, we have limited experience with digital video television. There can be no guarantee that our digital media products will be accepted by the market or increase our revenues or profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 