ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition and/or liquidity could be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of the television systems and set-top box business lines from NXP, or the frame rate converter, demodulator and audio decoder product lines from Micronas, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. On February 8, 2010, we completed the acquisition of the television systems and set-top box business lines from NXP, or NXP Transaction, and on May 14, 2009, we completed the purchase of selected assets of the frame rate converter, demodulator and audio decoder product lines of Micronas, or Micronas Transaction. We continue to integrate these assets, and the operations acquired with these assets, into our existing operations. The integration has required, and will continue to require significant efforts, including the coordination of future product development and sales and marketing efforts. These integration efforts continue to require resources and management’s time and efforts. The success of each of these acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining the acquired product lines with our legacy operations. However, to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, we must successfully combine the acquired business lines with our legacy operations and integrate our respective operations, technologies and personnel. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. The integration process has resulted in the loss of some key employees and other senior management, and could result in the disruption of our business or adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors and other third parties, or to otherwise achieve the anticipated benefits of either acquisition. Specifically, risks in integrating the operations of the business lines acquired from NXP and Micronas into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of each acquisition include, among other things: • failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate our product capabilities and product roadmap of our combined business lines; • failure to compete effectively against companies already serving the broader market opportunities that are now expected to be available to us and our expanded product offerings; • retention of key Trident employees and integration of key employees acquired from NXP or Micronas; • failure to successfully integrate and harmonize financial systems required to support our larger operations, including the development and implementation of a global enterprise resource planning system designed to integrate legacy systems from Trident and NXP. • retention of customers and strategic partners of products that we have acquired with each acquisition; • coordination of research and development activities to enhance the introduction of new products and technologies utilizing technology acquired from NXP or Micronas, especially in light of rapidly evolving markets for those products and technologies; • effective coordination of the diversion of management’s attention from business matters to integration issues; • effective combination of the business lines acquired from NXP and Micronas into our legacy product offerings, including the acquired technology and intellectual property rights effectively and quickly; • effective anticipation of the market needs and achievement of market acceptance of our products and services utilizing the technology acquired in each acquisition; • the transition to a common information technology environment at all facilities acquired in each acquisition; • combination of our business culture with the business culture previously operated by NXP or Micronas; • compliance with local laws as we take steps to integrate and rationalize operations in diverse geographic locations; and • difficulties in creating uniform standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting), procedures, policies and information systems. 12 Table of Contents Integration efforts will also divert management attention and resources. An inability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, as we complete the integration process, we may incur additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of each acquisition may not be realized. Actual cost synergies may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of either the NXP Transaction or the Micronas Transaction. We depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of a significant design win, loss of a key customer or a significant reduction in or cancellation of sales to a key customer could significantly reduce our revenues and negatively impact our results of operations. We are and will continue to be dependent on a limited number of distributors and customers for a substantial amount of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2010, for instance, 40% of our revenues were from sales to three major customers. Our revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars and Euros. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer and will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. A significant portion of our revenue in any period may also depend on a single product design win with a particular customer. As a result, the loss of any such key design win or any significant delay in the ramp of volume productions of the customer’s products into which our product is designed could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were negatively impacted, in part, due to reductions, cancellations or delays in orders from key customers. We may be unable to replace lost revenues by sales to any new customers or increased sales to existing customers. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: • substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; • our customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; • our customers may develop and manufacture their own solutions; or • our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. The operation of our business could be adversely affected by the transition of key personnel as we rebuild our executive leadership team and make additional organizational changes. In addition to the uncertainties created among personnel as a result of the Micronas and NXP Transactions and the reorganization of senior management during 2010, we appointed an interim Chief Executive Officer following the January 2011 resignations of our former Chief Executive Officer and former President. Our senior management team, which was reorganized following the NXP Transaction, has only worked together or a short period of time. During 2010 we reorganized our Board of Directors, and now have eight members of the Board of Directors, four of whom joined following completion of the NXP Transaction, and one vacancy. It may take some time for each of the new members of our management team to become fully integrated into our business. Our failure to manage these transitions, or to find and retain experienced management personnel, could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our operating results. 13 Table of Contents We must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees following integration of the NXP Transaction and the Micronas Transaction, and failure to do so could negatively affect our operations. We must retain key employees acquired from Micronas and NXP. Experienced executives are in high demand and competition for their talents can be intense. To be successful, we must also retain and motivate our existing executives and other key employees. Our employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with us as we develop and begin to execute our operational and product development strategies. These potential distractions may adversely affect our ability to attract, motivate and retain executives and other key employees and keep them focused on applicable strategies and goals. A failure to retain and motivate executives and other key employees could have a material and adverse impact on our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of the principal members of our technical sales, marketing and engineering teams, many of whom perform important management functions and would be difficult to replace. During the past year, we hired several members of our current executive management team. We have reorganized our sales, marketing and engineering teams and continue to make changes. We depend upon the continued services of key management personnel at our overseas subsidiaries, especially in China, Taiwan and Europe. Our officers and key employees are not bound by employment agreements for any specific term, and may terminate their employment at any time. In order to continue to expand our product offerings both in the U.S. and abroad, we must hire and retain a number of research and development personnel. Hiring technical sales personnel in our industry is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our technologies. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Competition for highly skilled personnel continues to be increasingly intense, particularly in the areas where we principally operate. During 2010, we experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified engineering personnel in Shanghai, China, Austin, Texas and Taiwan. If we are not successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs, our business may be harmed. As a result of the NXP Transaction and the Micronas Transaction, we are a larger and more geographically diverse organization, and if we are unable to manage this larger organization efficiently, our operating results will suffer. As a result of the acquisitions of assets from NXP and Micronas, we have a larger number of employees in widely dispersed operations in the U.S., Europe, Asia, and other locations, which have increased the difficulty of managing our operations. Prior to 2010, we did not have a significant number of employees in Europe, particularly Germany and The Netherlands, and had none in India. As a result, we now face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The inability to manage successfully this geographically more diverse and substantially larger organization could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. Our reliance upon a very small number of foundries for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuits could make it difficult to maintain product flow and negatively affect our customer relationships, revenues and operating margins. If the demand for our products grows or decreases by material amounts, we will need to adjust the levels of our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions. Any disruptions in product flow could limit our ability to meet orders, impact our revenue and our ability to consummate sales, adversely affect our competitive position and reputation and result in additional costs or cancellation of orders. We do not own or operate fabrication facilities and do not manufacture our products internally. Prior to the NXP Transaction, we relied principally upon one independent foundry to manufacture substantially all of our SoC products and non-audio discrete products in wafer form and other contract manufacturers for assembly and testing of our products and we rely upon Micronas for the manufacture of our discrete audio products on a turnkey basis pursuant to a services agreement. Following the NXP Transaction, we have begun to manufacture some of our products in wafer form at a second independent foundry. Generally, we place orders by purchase order, and the foundries are not 14 Table of Contents obligated to manufacture our products on a long-term fixed-price basis, so they are not obligated to supply us with products for any specific period of time, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Our foundry and contract manufacturers could re-allocate capacity to other customers, even during periods of high demand for our products. In fact, during 2010 we experienced wafer supply constraints and expect to face such constraints in the future. We have limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, potential errors in manufacturing and production costs. We could experience an interruption in our access to certain process technologies necessary for the manufacture of our products. From time to time, there are manufacturing capacity shortages in the semiconductor industry and current global economic conditions make it more likely those disruptions in supply chain cycles could occur. As a result of these conditions, our foundry subcontractors could experience financial difficulties that would impede their ability to operate effectively. If we encounter shortages and delays in obtaining components, our ability to meet customer orders would be materially adversely affected. In addition, during periods of increased demand, putting pressure on the foundries to meet orders, we may have reduced control over pricing and timely delivery of components, and if the foundries increase the cost of components or subassemblies, our product revenues, cost of product revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected, and we may not have alternative sources of supply to manufacture such components. Constraints or delays in the supply of our products, whether because of capacity constraints, unexpected disruptions at our independent foundries, at NXP or Micronas or at our assembly or testing houses, delays in additional production at existing foundries or in obtaining additional production from existing or new foundries, shortages of raw materials, or other reasons, could result in the loss of customers and other material adverse effects on our operating results, including effects that may result should we be forced to purchase products from higher cost foundries or pay expediting charges to obtain additional supplies. In addition, to the extent we elect to use multiple sources for certain products, our customers may be required to qualify multiple sources, which could adversely affect their desire to design-in our products and reduce our revenues. Intense competition exists in the market for digital media products. The digital media market in which we compete is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change and declining average unit selling prices. Competition typically occurs at the design stage, when customers evaluate alternative design approaches requiring integrated circuits. Because of short product life cycles, there are frequent design win competitions for next-generation systems. We believe the digital media market will remain competitive, and will require us to incur substantial research and development, technical support, sales and other expenditures to stay competitive in this market. In the digital media market, our principal competitors are captive solutions from large TV OEMs as well as merchant solutions from Broadcom Corporation, MediaTek Inc., MStar Semiconductor, NEC Corporation, Novatek, STMicroelectronics, and Zoran Corporation. Industry consolidation has been occurring recently as, in addition to our acquisition of certain assets from NXP and Micronas, some of our competitors have acquired or are considering acquiring other competitors or divisions of companies that provide them with the opportunity to compete against us. Many of our current competitors and many potential competitors have significantly greater technical, manufacturing, financial and marketing resources. Some of them may also have broader product lines and longer standing relationships with key customers and suppliers than we have, which makes competing more difficult. Therefore, we expect to devote significant resources to the digital TV and set-top box markets even though some of our competitors are substantially more experienced than we are in these markets. The level and intensity of competition have increased over the past year. Competitive pricing pressures have resulted in continued reductions in average selling prices of our existing products, and continued or increased competition could require us to further reduce the prices of our products, affect our ability to recover costs or result in reduced gross margins. If we are unable to timely and cost-effectively integrate more functionality onto single chip designs to help our customers reduce costs, we may lose market share, our revenues may decline and our gross margins may decrease significantly. If we have to qualify new contract manufacturers or foundries for any of our products, we may experience delays that result in lost revenues and damaged customer relationships. The lead time required to establish a relationship with a new foundry is long, and it takes time to adapt a product’s design and technological requirements to a particular manufacturer’s processes. Accordingly, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for any specific product. We have already experienced an inability to meet the unconstrained 15 Table of Contents demand of some of our customers for certain products due to shortages in wafer supply that occurred during 2010. The lack of a readily available second source could cause significant delays in shipping products, or even shortages which could damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our sales and financial results. If we do not achieve additional design wins in the future, our ability to sell additional products could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on manufacturers of consumer televisions, set-top boxes and other digital media products designing our products into their products. To achieve design wins with OEM customers and ODMs, we must define and deliver cost-effective, innovative and high performance integrated circuits on a timely basis, before our competitors do so. In addition, some OEM customers have begun to utilize digital video processor components produced by their own internal affiliates, which decreases our opportunity to achieve design wins. Thus, even if we achieve a design win with an ODM, their OEM customer may subsequently elect to purchase an integrated digital media solution from the ODM that does not incorporate our products. Once a supplier’s products have been designed into a system, a manufacturer may be reluctant to change components due to costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and determining performance capabilities of the component. Customers can choose at any time to discontinue using our products in their designs or product development efforts. Accordingly, we may face narrow windows of opportunity to be selected as the supplier of component parts by significant new customers. It may be difficult for us to sell to a particular customer for a significant period of time once that customer selects a competitor’s product, and we may not be successful in obtaining broader acceptance of our products. If we are unable to achieve broader market acceptance of our products, we may be unable to maintain and grow our business and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. A decline in revenues may have a disproportionate impact on operating results and require further reductions in our operating expense levels. Because expense levels are relatively fixed in the near term for a given quarter and are based in part on expectations of our future revenues, any decline in our revenues to a level that is below our expectations would have a disproportionately adverse impact on our operating results for that quarter. If revenues further decline, we may be required to incur additional material restructuring charges in connection with efforts to contain and reduce costs. Product supply and demand in the semiconductor industry is subject to cyclical variations. The semiconductor industry is subject to cyclical variations in product supply and demand. Downturns in the industry often occur in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles for both semiconductor companies and their customers and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by abrupt fluctuations in product demand and production capacity and accelerated decline of average selling prices. The emergence of a number of negative economic factors, including heightened fears of a prolonged recession, could lead to such a downturn. We cannot predict whether we will achieve timely, cost- effective access to that capacity when needed, or what capacity patterns may emerge in the future. A downturn in the semiconductor industry could harm our sales and revenues if demand for our products drops, or cause our gross margins to suffer if average selling prices decline. We do not have long-term commitments from our customers, and we plan purchases based upon our estimates of customer demand, which may require us to contract for the manufacturing of our products based on inaccurate estimates. Our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our customers may cancel or defer purchases at any time. This requires us to forecast demand based upon assumptions that may not be correct. If we or our customers overestimate demand, we will create an obligation to purchase the inventory in excess of expected demand. If such excess inventory becomes obsolete or we cannot sell or use it, our operating results could be harmed. Conversely, if we or our customers underestimate demand, or if sufficient manufacturing capacity is not available, we may lose revenue opportunities, damage customer relationships and we may not achieve expected revenue. 16 Table of Contents Our success depends upon the digital media market and we must continue to develop new products and to enhance our existing products, including transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies. The digital media industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, and changes in customer requirements. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate market needs and develop products that address those needs. As a result, our products could quickly become obsolete if we fail to predict market needs accurately or develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner. The long-term success in the digital media business will depend on the introduction successive generations of products in time to meet the design cycles as well as the specifications of original equipment manufacturers of televisions. The digital media industry is characterized by an increasing level of integration and incorporation of greater numbers of features on a single chip, using smaller geometry process technologies, in order to permit enhanced systems at the same or lower cost. Our failure to predict market needs accurately or to timely develop new competitively priced products or product enhancements that incorporate new industry standards and technologies, including integrated circuits with increasing levels of integration and new features, using smaller geometry process technologies, may harm market acceptance and sales of our products. If the development or enhancement of these products or any other future products takes longer than we anticipate, or if we are unable to introduce these products to market, our sales could decrease. Even if we are able to develop and commercially introduce these new products, the new products may not achieve the widespread market acceptance necessary to provide an adequate return on our investment. The average selling prices of our products may decline over relatively short periods. Average selling prices for our products may decline over relatively short time periods. This annual pace of price decline for products or technology is generally expected in the consumer electronics industry. It is also possible for the pace of average selling price declines to accelerate beyond these levels for certain products in a commoditizing market. Price declines can be exacerbated by competitive pressures at specific customers and for specific products. When our average selling prices decline, our gross profits decline unless we are able to sell more products at higher gross margin or reduce the cost to manufacture our products. We generally attempt to combat average selling price declines by designing new products for reduced costs, innovating to integrate additional functions or features and working with our manufacturing partners to reduce the costs of manufacturing existing products. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience declining sales prices, which could negatively impact our revenues, gross profits and financial results. We therefore need to sell our higher margin products in increasing volumes to offset any decline in the average selling prices of our products, and introduce new higher margin products for sale in the future, which we may not be able to do on a timely basis. Our ability to borrow under our credit facility and the financial covenants in the facility may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Our revolving credit facility agreement with Bank of America contains financial and other covenants that must be met for us to remain in compliance with the agreement, including a covenant which would initially preclude us from accessing funds under the credit facility in excess of our cash and equivalent resources. The agreement also contains customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make capital expenditures, merge or consolidate, dispose of assets, pay dividends or make distributions, change the method of accounting, make investments and enter into certain transactions with affiliates, in each case subject to materiality and other qualifications, baskets and exceptions customary for a credit facility of this size and type. The agreement also contains a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a specified fixed charge coverage ratio if liquidity or availability under the agreement drops below certain thresholds. We may borrow under the agreement based upon a certain percentage of our eligible accounts receivable outstanding, subject to eligibility requirements, limitations and covenants. As of March 4, 2011 there are no borrowings outstanding under the agreement. However, if we are not in compliance in the future with covenants under the agreement and are therefore unable to borrow under the credit facility or to refinance existing indebtedness, we may be prevented from using the agreement to fund our working capital needs. 17 Table of Contents Our dependence on sales to distributors increases the risks of managing our supply chain and may result in excess inventory or inventory shortages, which could adversely impact our operating results. Prior to the NXP Transaction, the majority of our sales through distributors were made by companies that function as purchasing conduits for each of two large Japanese OEM customers. Generally, these distributors take certain inventory positions and resell to their respective OEM customers, who build display devices and other products based on specifications provided by branded suppliers. We have a more traditional distributor relationship with our remaining distributors, one that involves the distributor taking inventory positions and reselling to multiple customers. In our significant distributor relationships, we have recognized revenue when the distributors sell the product through to their end user customers. These distributor relationships have reduced our ability to forecast sales and increased risks to our business. Since our distributors act as intermediaries between us and the end user customers, we must rely on our distributors to accurately report inventory levels, production forecasts and sales to their end user customers. Our sales are made on the basis of customer purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our distributors and customers may cancel or defer orders at any time, but we must order wafer inventory from our foundries several months in advance. This requires us to manage a more complex supply chain as well as monitor the financial condition and credit worthiness of our distributors and the end user customers. Our failure to manage one or more of these risks could result in excess inventory or shortages that could lead to significant charges for obsolete inventory or cause us to forego significant revenue opportunities, lose market share, damage customer relationships and accurately report revenue derived from distributor sales, any of which could adversely impact our operating results. If we engage in further cost-cutting or workforce reductions, we may be unable to successfully implement new products or enhancements or upgrades to our products. We expect to continue to introduce new and enhanced products, and our future financial performance will depend on customer acceptance of our new products and any upgrades or enhancements that we may make to our products. However, if our efforts to streamline operations and reduce costs and our workforce following our recent acquisitions are insufficient to bring our structure in line with current and projected near-term demand for our products, we may be forced to make additional workforce reductions or implement further cost saving initiatives. Workforce reductions we have already initiated and possible future reductions could impact our research and development and engineering activities, which may slow our development of new or enhanced products. We may be unable to successfully introduce new or enhanced products, and may not succeed in obtaining or maintaining customer satisfaction, which could negatively impact our reputation, future sales of our products and our future revenues. NXP owns approximately 60% of our outstanding shares of common stock, which could cause NXP to be able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of various corporate matters and could discourage third parties from proposing transactions resulting in a change in our control. As a result of the NXP Transaction, NXP owns approximately 60% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock and has elected four of the nine members of our board of directors. Although the Stockholders Agreement between us and NXP imposes limits on NXP’s ability to take specified actions related to the acquisition of additional shares of our common stock and the voting of its shares of our common stock, among other restrictions, NXP is still able to exert significant influence over the outcome of a range of corporate matters, including significant corporate transactions requiring a stockholder vote, such as a merger or a sale of our company or our assets. Further, as a result of the departure of our prior CEO in January 2011, directors appointed by NXP currently constitute four of the eight members on our Board. NXP’s ownership could affect the liquidity in the market for our common stock. Furthermore, the ownership position of NXP could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning Trident. As a result, our common stock could trade at prices that do not reflect a “control premium” to the same extent as do the stocks of similarly situated companies that do not have a stockholder with an ownership interest as large as NXP’s ownership interest. In addition, we issued 7 million shares of our common stock to Micronas and warrants to purchase an additional 3 million shares of our common stock to Micronas. The issuance of these shares to Micronas caused a reduction in the relative percentage interests of Trident stockholders in earnings, voting power, liquidation value and book and market value, and a further reduction will occur if Micronas exercises the warrants in the future. 18 Table of Contents Sales by NXP of the shares of our common stock acquired in the NXP Transaction following the two year lock up period could cause our stock price to decrease. The sale of shares of common stock that NXP received in the NXP Transaction are restricted and not freely tradeable, but NXP may begin to sell these shares under certain circumstances, including pursuant to a registered underwritten public offering under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, following February 8, 2012. We have entered into a Stockholders Agreement with NXP, which includes registration rights and which gives NXP the right to require us to register all or a portion of its shares of our common stock at any time following this two year period, subject to certain limitations. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by NXP within a short period of time could cause our stock price to decrease, and make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. The impact of changes in global economic conditions on our current and potential customers may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our operating results have been adversely affected over the past quarters by reduced levels of consumer spending and by the overall weak economic conditions affecting our current and potential customers. The economic environment that we faced in 2010 was uncertain, and this uncertainty is expected to continue during 2011. If our end customers continue to refrain from making purchases of products from us until general economic conditions improve, this could continue to adversely affect our business and operating results during calendar 2011. As a result of the difficult global macroeconomic and industry conditions, we have implemented restructuring and workforce reductions, and may be required to make additional such reductions, which may adversely affect the morale and performance of our personnel and our ability to hire new personnel. In connection with our efforts to streamline operations, reduce costs and better align our staffing and structure with current demand for our products, we implemented a restructuring of our company, reducing our workforce and implementing other cost saving initiatives. We recorded restructuring charges of $0.8 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2008, and $1.6 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2009. In connection with the NXP Transaction, we implemented further restructurings or work force reductions that took place during 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded $28.3 million of restructuring expenses related to severance and related employee benefits. Restructuring charges are recorded under “Restructuring charges” in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Prior to the close of the NXP Transaction, NXP initiated a restructuring plan pursuant to which the employment of some NXP employees was terminated upon the close of the NXP Transaction. We have determined that the restructuring plan was a separate plan from the business combination because the plan to terminate the employment of certain employees was made in contemplation of the acquisition. Therefore, a severance cost of $3.6 million was recognized as an expense on the acquisition date and is included in the total restructuring charge of $28.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The $3.6 million of severance cost was paid by NXP after the close of the NXP transaction, effectively reducing the purchase consideration transferred. Our restructuring may yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce and loss of employee morale and decreased performance. In addition, the recent trading levels of our stock have decreased the value of our stock options granted to employees under our stock option plans. As a result of these factors, our remaining personnel may seek employment with companies that they perceive as having less volatile stock prices. Continuity of personnel can be a very important factor in the sales and implementation of our products and completion of our research and development efforts. As a result of our investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our previously filed financial statements, we are subject to civil litigation claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition. As previously described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 3, “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements and Special Committee and Company Findings” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2006 filed on August 7, 2007, we conducted an investigation into our 19 Table of Contents historical stock option practices and related accounting. Based upon the findings of the investigation, we restated our financial statements for each of the years ended June 30, 1993 through June 30, 2005, and restated our financial statements for the interim first three quarters of the year ended June 30, 2006 as well. Our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed and may continue to expose us to greater risks associated with litigation as described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” This litigation could impact our relationships with customers and our ability to generate revenues. We have been named as a party to derivative action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which will require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Trident has been named as a nominal defendant in several shareholder derivative lawsuits concerning the granting of stock options. The federal court cases have been consolidated as In re Trident Microsystems Inc. Derivative Litigation, Master File No. C-06-3440-JF. Plaintiffs in all cases alleged that certain of our current or former officers and directors caused us to grant options at less than fair market value, contrary to our public statements (including our financial statements), and that this represented a breach of their fiduciary duties to us, and as a result those officers and directors are liable to us. Our Board of Directors appointed a Special Litigation Committee, or SLC, composed solely of independent directors, to review and manage any claims that we may have relating to the stock option granting practices and related issues investigated by the SLC. The scope of the SLC’s authority includes the claims asserted in the derivative actions. On March 26, 2010, the federal court approved settlements with all defendants other than Frank Lin, our former CEO, and all defendants other than Mr. Lin were dismissed with prejudice from the state and federal actions. The details of that partial settlement, which disposed of the federal litigation as to all individual defendants other than Mr. Lin and as to the consolidated state court action in its entirety, were previously disclosed in our Form 8-K filed on February 10, 2010. On June 8, 2010, Mr. Lin filed a counterclaim against Trident. In that counterclaim, Mr. Lin seeks recovery of payments he claims he was promised during the negotiations surrounding his eventual termination and also losses he claims he has suffered because he was not permitted to exercise his Trident stock options between January 2007 and March 2008. On February 15, 2011, we entered into a Stipulation of Settlement to resolve the federal litigation in its entirety, or Proposed Settlement, and on February 17, 2011, the federal court preliminarily approved the Proposed Settlement. A hearing for consideration of final approval of the Proposed Settlement has been scheduled for April 15, 2011. Final approval, without appeal, of the Proposed Settlement would satisfy the contingency in the settlement of Mr. Lin’s claims against us. We cannot predict whether the federal court will order the final approval of the Proposed Settlement and, if it does, whether such decision will be successfully appealed. As a result, we cannot predict whether Mr. Lin’s counterclaims against us in the federal litigation are likely to result in any material recovery by or expense to Trident. We expect to continue to incur legal fees in responding to this lawsuit and relating to the Proposed Settlement, including expenses for the reimbursement of certain legal fees of at least Mr. Lin under our advancement obligations. The expense of defending such litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve this and any additional lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. We may be required to record future charges to earnings if our intangible assets become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America to review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates, and changes in our financial results and outlook. We may be required to incur additional charges in our Consolidated Financial Statements during the period in which any impairment of our intangible assets is determined. In determining the fair value of intangible assets in connection with our impairment analysis, we consider various factors including Trident’s estimates of future market growth and trends, forecasted revenue and costs, discount rates, expected periods over which our assets will be utilized and other variables. Our assumptions are based on historical data and internal estimates developed as part of our long-term planning process. We base our 20 Table of Contents fair value estimates on assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a $2.5 million impairment charge for technology licenses and prepaid royalties. If future conditions are different from management’s estimates at the time of an acquisition or market conditions change subsequently, we may incur future charges for impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets, which could adversely impact our results of operations. The demand for our products depends to a significant degree on the demand for the end products of customers of the acquired business lines into which they are incorporated. The vast majority of our revenues are from sales to manufacturers in the consumer electronics industry. Demand from these customers fluctuates significantly by year and by quarter, driven by consumer preferences, the development of new technologies and brand performance. Downturns in this industry can cause abrupt fluctuations in product demand, production over-capacity and accelerated average selling price declines. The success of our products depends on the success of the end customers for these products in the market place. The current global downturn makes it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Our customers may vary order levels significantly from period to period, request postponements to scheduled delivery dates, modify their orders or reduce lead times, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have had fluctuations in quarterly results in the past and may continue to experience such fluctuations in the future. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors including: • our ability to obtain the anticipated benefits of each of the NXP Transaction and the Micronas Transaction; • our ability to develop, introduce, ship and support new products and product enhancements, especially our newer SoC products, and to manage product transitions; • new product introductions by our competitors; • delayed new product introductions; • uncertain demand in the digital media markets in which we have limited experience; • our ability to achieve required product cost reductions; • the mix of products sold and the mix of distribution channels through which they are sold; • fluctuations in demand for our products, including seasonality; • unexpected product returns or the cancellation or rescheduling of significant orders; • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; • unfavorable responses to new products; • adverse economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Asia; and • unexpected costs associated with our investigation of our historical stock option grant practices and related issues, and any related litigation or regulatory actions. These factors are often difficult or impossible to forecast or predict, and these or other factors could cause our revenue and expenses to fluctuate over interim periods, increase our operating expenses, or adversely affect our results of operations or business condition. We are vulnerable to undetected product problems. Although we establish and implement test specifications, impose quality standards upon our suppliers and perform separate application-based compatibility and system testing, our products may contain undetected defects, which may or may not be material, and which may or may not have a feasible solution. Although we have experienced such errors in the past, significant errors have generally been detected relatively early in a product’s life cycle and therefore the costs 21 Table of Contents associated with such errors have been immaterial. We cannot ensure that such errors will not be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may materially adversely affect our business by causing us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and causing significant customer relations problems. Defects or other performance problems in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers or could damage market acceptance of our products. Our customers could seek damages from us for their losses as a result of problems with our products or order less of our products, which would harm our financial results. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which may be difficult. The digital media market is a highly competitive industry in which we, and most other participants, rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect proprietary rights. The competitive nature of our industry, rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards heighten the importance of protecting proprietary technology rights. Since patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office may be kept confidential, our pending patent applications may attempt to protect proprietary technology claimed in a third-party patent application. Our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies as policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus make the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely in these countries. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents or other intellectual property. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology rights, others may be able to use our proprietary technology without having to compensate us, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our ability to compete effectively. We have filed in the past, and may file in the future, lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation or resulting counterclaims, we could lose our proprietary rights and incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention. In addition, failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity and our ability to compete effectively. The television systems and set-top box business lines that we acquired from NXP depend on patents and other intellectual property rights to protect against misappropriation by competitors or others. The patents we have acquired as part of the acquired business lines may be insufficient to provide meaningful protection. We may not be able to obtain patent protection or secure other intellectual property rights in all the countries in which the acquired business lines operate, and, under the laws of such countries, patents and other intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in scope. Any inability to adequately protect the intellectual property rights of the acquired business lines may have an adverse effect on our results. We have been involved in intellectual property infringement claims, and may be involved in other claims in the future, which can be costly. Our industry is very competitive and is characterized by frequent litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in our industry have already been issued and as the market further develops and additional intellectual property protection is obtained by participants in our industry, litigation is likely to become more frequent. From time to time, third parties have asserted and are likely in the future to assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies or rights that are important to our business. Historically we have been involved in such disputes. For example, in March 2010, Intravisual Inc. filed complaints against us and multiple other defendants, including NXP, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, No. 2:10-CV-90 TJW alleging that certain Trident video decoding products infringe a patent relating generally to compressing and decompressing digital video. The complaint seeks a permanent injunction against us as well as the recovery of monetary damages and attorneys’ fees. We filed an answer on 22 Table of Contents May 28, 2010, however, no date for trial has been set. The pending proceeding involves complex questions of fact and law and may require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to defend. In addition, we have and may in the future enter into agreements to indemnify our customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of patents, trademarks or copyrights of third parties. Litigation or other disputes or negotiations arising from claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, whether with or without merit, has been and may in the future be, time-consuming, resulting in significant expenses and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We do not have insurance against any alleged infringement of intellectual property of others. Any such claims that may be filed against us in the future, if resolved adversely to us, could cause us to stop sales of our products which incorporate the challenged intellectual property and could also result in product shipment delays or require us to redesign or modify our products or to enter into licensing agreements. These licensing agreements, if required, would increase our product costs and may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If there is a successful claim of infringement or we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on a timely and reasonable basis, our business could be harmed. Certain intellectual property used in the television systems and set-top box business lines acquired from NXP was transferred or licensed to NXP from Philips and may not be sufficient to protect the position of the acquired business lines in the industry. Some of the intellectual property that we acquired from NXP was originally acquired by NXP in connection with its separation from Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., or Philips. In connection with the separation of NXP from Philips, Philips transferred a set of patent families to NXP, subject to certain limitations. These limitations give Philips the right to sublicense to third parties in certain circumstances. The strength and value of this intellectual property may be diluted if Philips licenses or otherwise transfers such intellectual property or such rights to third parties, especially if such third parties compete with the acquired business lines. If necessary licenses of third-party technology are not available to us or are very expensive, our products could become obsolete. From time to time, we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or enhance current products. Third-party licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and enhance current products, or if our licensor’s technology is no longer available to us because it is determined to infringe another third-party’s intellectual property rights, we may have to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. Factors such as new product announcements by us or our competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, changes in our senior management, unfavorable conditions in the digital media market, failure to obtain design wins, industry consolidation, wafer supply constraints, and any litigation or regulatory actions arising in connection with these matters, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These conditions, as well as factors that generally affect the market for publicly traded securities, particularly those of high-technology companies, could cause the price of our stock to fluctuate from time to time. Our operating results may be adversely affected by the European financial restructuring and related global economic conditions. The current debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the Euro to further deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of European customers. In addition, this European crisis is contributing to instability in global credit markets. The world has recently experienced a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in Europe, the U.S. or other key 23 Table of Contents markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We currently rely on certain international customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and are subject to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the U.S. As a result of our focus on digital media products, we expect to be primarily dependent on international sales and operations, particularly in Japan, South Korea, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Our revenues may continue to be highly concentrated in a small number of geographic regions in the future. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, which could adversely affect future results, including: • exchange rate variations, tariffs, import/export restrictions and other trade barriers; • potential adverse tax consequences; • challenges in effectively managing distributors or representatives to maximize sales; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • political and economic instability, civil unrest, war or terrorist activities that impact international commerce; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the U.S.; and • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Our international sales for the year ended December 31, 2010, are principally U.S. dollar-denominated. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. We cannot be sure that those of our international customers who currently place orders in U.S. dollars will continue to be willing to do so. If they do not, our revenues would become subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. We are also subject to the interpretations of foreign regulatory bodies in connection with reviews conducted of our subsidiaries and their operations. While we believe our tax reserves adequately provide for any tax contingencies, the ultimate outcomes of any current or future tax audits are uncertain, and we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business. We conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the State of California, Taiwan and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. The insurance coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. A major earthquake or other disaster affecting our suppliers’ facilities and our administrative offices could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities and our administrative offices; these delays could be lengthy and result in significant expenses. In addition, our administrative offices in the State of California may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. Any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. In addition, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any natural disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 