ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition and/or liquidity could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully integrate the assets and operations that were acquired from Micronas. On May 14, 2009, we completed the purchase of selected assets of the frame rate converter, demodulator and audio decoder product lines of Micronas (the Purchase). We continue to integrate these assets, and the operations acquired with these assets, into our existing operations. The integration has and will continue to require significant efforts, including the coordination of future product development and sales and marketing efforts. These integration efforts continue to require resources and management’s time and efforts. The challenges involved in the integration of the Purchase include, but are not limited to, the following: • retaining Micronas customers and strategic partners of products that we have acquired with the Purchase; • retaining key employees and retaining and integrating key employees acquired from Micronas; • coordinating research and development activities to enhance the introduction of new products and technologies utilizing technology acquired in the Purchase, especially in light of rapidly evolving markets for those products and technologies; • managing effectively the diversion of management’s attention from business matters to integration issues; • combining product offerings and incorporating acquired technology and rights into our product offerings effectively and quickly; • integrating sales efforts so that new customers acquired with the Purchase can easily do business with us; • transitioning all facilities to a common information technology environment; • combining our business culture with the business culture previously operated by Micronas; • anticipating the market needs and achieving market acceptance of our products and services utilizing the technology acquired in the Purchase; and • complying with local laws as we take steps to integrate and rationalize operations in diverse geographic locations. The Purchase may fail to achieve beneficial synergies. We agreed to the Purchase with the expectation that the Purchase will result in beneficial synergies to us, including cost reductions, reductions in our cash burn rate, and increased sales of our products, resulting in an increase in our revenues. Achieving these anticipated synergies and the potential benefits underlying our reasons for entering into the Purchase will depend in part on the success of integrating the Purchase into our business. It is not certain that any of the anticipated benefits will be realized. Risks from an unsuccessful integration of the Purchase could include the following risks: • we may be unable to increase sales of our products following the Purchase; • the Purchase may not be accretive; • we may be unable to expand the markets and customers we serve, upgrade our intellectual property, and reduce our cash burn rate; • we may have difficulty in manufacturing Micronas acquired products in the future and utilizing Micronas as a foundry or sub-contract manufacturer; 10 Table of Contents • potential disruption of our existing business could distract our management; • we may be unable to secure design wins at tier one customers following integration of the technology acquired as part of the Purchase; • we may be unable to retain needed intellectual property rights from Micronas, including rights to third party licenses held by Micronas needed for us to successfully deploy the assets acquired in the Purchase; • it may be more difficult to retain key employees, marketing, and technical personnel after the completion of the Purchase, or that any former employees of Micronas will file claims against Trident for pre-closing labor obligations; and • the costs and expenditures for retaining personnel, eliminating unnecessary resources and integrating the businesses may be greater than anticipated. Even if we are able to integrate the Purchase with our operations, there can be no assurance that the anticipated synergies will be achieved. The failure to achieve such synergies could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued employment of key personnel, some of whom have only worked together for a short period of time, as well as upon our ability to retain and motivate key employees joining us from Micronas, and failure to do so could seriously harm our financial results and operations. We must retain key employees acquired from Micronas following the Purchase. To be successful, we must also retain and motivate existing executives and other key employees of ours. Our employees, including former employees of Micronas, may experience uncertainty about their future role with us until strategies with regard to the Purchase have been executed. This potential uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of the principal members of our technical sales, marketing and engineering teams, many of whom perform important management functions and would be difficult to replace. During the past year, we hired several members of our current executive management team. We have reorganized our sales, marketing and engineering teams and continue to make changes. We depend upon the continued services of key management personnel at our overseas subsidiaries, especially in China and Taiwan. Our officers and key employees are not bound by employment agreements for any specific term, and may terminate their employment at any time. In order to continue to expand our product offerings both in the U.S. and abroad, we must hire and retain a number of research and development personnel. Hiring technical sales personnel in our industry is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our technologies. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Competition for highly skilled personnel continues to be increasingly intense, particularly in the areas where we principally operate, specifically in China, Taiwan and Northern California. If we are not successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs, our business may be harmed. As a result of the Purchase, we are a larger and more geographically diverse organization, and if we are unable to manage this larger organization efficiently, our operating results will suffer. As a result of the Purchase, we have a larger number of employees in widely dispersed operations in the United States, Europe, Asia Pacific, and other locations, which have increased the difficulty of managing our operations. Previously, we have not had a significant number of employees in Europe, particularly Germany. As a result, we now face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The inability to manage successfully this geographically more diverse and substantially larger organization could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. We have incurred significant costs associated with the Purchase. In addition to the consideration being paid to Micronas for the acquisition, we have incurred and accrued direct transaction costs of approximately $5.2 million associated with the Purchase. Furthermore, we may incur charges to operations, which are not currently reasonably estimable, “in the quarter after” the acquisition completed, to reflect costs associated with integrating the Purchase. There is no assurance that we will not incur additional material charges in subsequent quarters to reflect additional costs associated with the Purchase. If the benefits of the Purchase do not exceed the costs the Purchase, our financial results may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents The issuance of shares of Trident common stock to Micronas in the Purchase has reduced the percentage interests of current Trident stockholders. We issued 7 million shares of our common stock to Micronas and warrants to purchase an additional 3 million shares of our common stock. Micronas now owns approximately 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, not including the impact of its potential exercise of the warrants in future years. The issuance of these shares to Micronas has caused a reduction in the relative percentage interests of current Trident stockholders in earnings, voting power, liquidation value and book and market value, and a further reduction will occur if Micronas exercises the warrants in the future. As a result of the difficult global macroeconomic and industry conditions, we have implemented a restructuring and workforce reductions, and may be required to make additional such reductions, which may adversely affect the morale and performance of our personnel and our ability to hire new personnel. In connection with our efforts to streamline operations, reduce costs and better align our staffing and structure with current demand for our products, we implemented a restructuring of our Company during the second quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and first quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, reducing our workforce and implementing other cost saving initiatives. We recorded restructuring charges in the second quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and will record a change in the first quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as a result of these actions, and may implement further restructurings or work force reductions in future periods. Our restructuring may yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce and loss of employee morale and decreased performance. In addition, the recent trading levels of our stock have decreased the value of our stock options granted to employees under our stock option plans. As a result of these factors, our remaining personnel may seek employment with companies that they perceive as having less volatile stock prices. Continuity of personnel can be a very important factor in the sales and implementation of our products and completion of our research and development efforts. We depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of, a significant reduction in or cancellation of sales to any key customer would significantly reduce our revenues. We are and will continue to be dependent on a limited number of distributors and customers for a substantial amount of our revenue. Sales to customers in Japan, Asia Pacific, Europe and South Korea collectively accounted for over 99% of our total revenues in the quarter and year ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, approximately 59% of our revenues were derived from sales to three major customers, Midoriya (a distributor supplying Sony), Sharp and Philips. In Philips’ case, the Company’s sales are principally made to three contract manufacturers that supply Philips. Substantially all of our revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars and Euros. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer and will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Accordingly, a reduction in purchases of our products by any of these customers could cause our revenues to decline during the period and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We may be unable to replace any such lost revenues by sales to any new customers or increased sales to existing customers. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: • substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; • our customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; • our customers may develop and manufacture their own solutions; or • our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. 12 Table of Contents If we engage in further cost-cutting or workforce reductions, we may be unable to successfully implement new products or enhancements or upgrades to our products. We expect to continue to introduce new and enhanced products, and our future financial performance will depend on customer acceptance of our new products and any upgrades or enhancements that we may make to our products. However, if our recent efforts to streamline operations and reduce costs and our workforce are insufficient to bring our structure in line with current and projected near-term demand for our products, we may be forced to make additional workforce reductions or implement further cost saving initiatives. These actions could impact our research and development and engineering activities, which may slow our development of new or enhanced products. We may be unable to successfully introduce new or enhanced products, and may not succeed in obtaining or maintaining customer satisfaction, which could negatively impact our reputation, future sales of our products and our future revenues. A decline in revenues may have a disproportionate impact on operating results and require further reductions in our operating expense levels. Because expense levels are relatively fixed in the near term for a given quarter and are based in part on expectations of our future revenues, any decline in our revenues to a level that is below our expectations would have a disproportionately adverse impact on our operating results for that quarter. If revenues further decline, we may be required to incur additional material restructuring charges in connection with efforts to contain and reduce costs. The impact of changes in global economic conditions on our current and potential customers may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our operating results have been adversely affected over the past quarters by reduced levels of consumer spending and by the overall weak economic conditions affecting our current and potential customers. The economic environment that we faced in the fiscal year 2008 was uncertain, and that uncertainty continued throughout fiscal year 2009. If our end customers continue to refrain from making purchases of products from us until general economic conditions improve, this could continue to adversely affect our business and operating results for additional quarters during fiscal 2010. As a result of our investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our previously filed financial statements, we are subject to civil litigation claims and regulatory investigations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition. As previously described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 filed on August 7, 2007, we conducted an investigation into our historical stock option practices and related accounting. Based upon the findings of the investigation, we restated our financial statements for each of the years ended June 30, 1993 through June 30, 2005, and restated our financial statements for the interim first three quarters of fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 as well. Our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed and may continue to expose us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government inquiries and enforcement actions, as described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Any of these actions could result in civil and/or criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against us and the payment of significant fines and penalties by us. In addition, the restatements of our previous financial results and the ongoing regulatory proceedings and government inquiries could impact our relationships with customers and our ability to generate revenues. We face risks related to SEC, DOJ, and other investigations into our historical stock option grant practices and related accounting, which could require significant management time and attention, and could require us to pay fines or other penalties. We are subject to a formal investigation from the SEC in connection with our investigation into our stock option grant practices and related issues. The DOJ commenced an investigation relating to the same issues, although the DOJ has not requested information from us since February 20, 2009. We have been cooperating with, and continue to cooperate with, inquiries from the SEC and DOJ. We are unable to predict what consequences, if any, that an investigation by any regulatory agency may have on us. Any regulatory investigation could result in substantial legal and accounting expenses, divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business. Any civil or criminal action commenced against us by a regulatory agency could result in administrative orders against us, the imposition of significant penalties and/or fines against us, and/or the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions against us or certain of our former officers, directors and/or employees. Any regulatory action could result in the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements or require that we take other actions. If we are subject to an adverse finding resulting from the SEC and DOJ investigations, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us. The period of time necessary to resolve the investigations by the DOJ and the SEC is uncertain, and these matters could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. 13 Table of Contents We have been named as a party to derivative action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which will require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Trident has been named as a nominal defendant in several shareholder derivative lawsuits concerning the granting of stock options. The federal court cases have been consolidated as In re Trident Microsystems Inc. Derivative Litigation, Master File No. C-06-3440-JF. A case also has been filed in State court, Limke v. Lin et al., No. 1:07-CV-080390. Plaintiffs in all cases allege that certain of our current or former officers and directors caused us to grant options at less than fair market value, contrary to our public statements (including our financial statements), and that this represented a breach of their fiduciary duties to us, and as a result those officers and directors are liable to us. No particular amount of damages has been alleged, and by the nature of the lawsuit no damages will be alleged against us. Our Board of Directors has appointed a Special Litigation Committee, or SLC, composed solely of independent directors, to review and manage any claims that we may have relating to the stock option granting practices and related issues investigated by the SLC. The scope of the SLC’s authority includes the claims asserted in the derivative actions. In federal court, Trident has moved to stay the case pending the assessment by the SLC that was formed to consider nominal plaintiffs’ claims. In State court, Trident moved to stay the case in deference to the federal lawsuit, and the parties have agreed, with the Court’s approval, to take that motion off the Court’s calendar to await the assessment of the SLC. We cannot predict whether these actions are likely to result in any material recovery by, or expense to, Trident. We expect to continue to incur legal fees in responding to these lawsuits, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. The expense of defending such litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve this and any additional lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to the risks of additional lawsuits in connection with our historical stock option grant practices and related issues, the resulting restatements, and the remedial measures we have taken. In addition to the possibilities that there may be additional governmental actions and shareholder lawsuits against us, we may be sued or taken to arbitration by former officers and employees in connection with their stock options, employment terminations and other matters. These lawsuits may be time consuming and expensive, and cause further distraction from the operation of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of our business could be adversely affected by the transition of key personnel as we rebuild our executive leadership team and make additional organizational changes. In September 2008, we appointed a Senior Vice President, Engineering. In November 2008, we appointed our Vice President of Worldwide Operations and, in January 2009, we appointed a new Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales. In May 2009, we appointed a former Micronas executive to the newly created position of Chief Technology Officer. We appointed two new members of our Board of Directors, one in January 2008 and the other in April 2008. We may add additional senior executives in the future. It is important to our success that our Chief Executive Officer continues building an effective management team and global organization. Accordingly, a few of our senior executives have been employed by us for less than one year, and it may take some time for each of the new members of our management team to become fully integrated into our business. Our failure to manage these transitions, or to find and retain experienced management personnel, could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our operating results. Intense competition exists in the market for digital media products. The digital media market in which we compete is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change and declining average unit selling prices. We expect competition to increase in the future from existing competitors and from other companies that may enter our existing or future markets with solutions which may be less costly or provide higher performance or more desirable features than our products. Competition typically occurs at the design stage, when customers evaluate alternative design approaches requiring integrated circuits. Because of short product life cycles, there are frequent design win competitions for next-generation systems. 14 Table of Contents We believe the digital media market will remain competitive, and will require us to incur substantial research and development, technical support, sales and other expenditures to stay competitive in this market. In the digital media market, our principal competitors are captive solutions from large TV OEMs as well as merchant solutions from Broadcom Corporation, MediaTek Inc., MStar Semiconductor, NEC Corporation, NXP Semiconductors, STMicroelectronics, Toshiba, and Zoran Corporation. Industry consolidation has been occurring recently as, in addition to our acquisition of certain assets from Micronas, some of our competitors have acquired other competitors or divisions of companies that provide them with the opportunity to compete against us. Many of our current competitors and many potential competitors, including these merged entities, have significantly greater technical, manufacturing, financial and marketing resources. Some of them may also have broader product lines and longer standing relationships with key customers and suppliers than we have, which makes competing more difficult. Therefore, we expect to devote significant resources to the DPTV/SVP and HiDTV market even though some of our competitors are substantially more experienced than we are in this market. The level and intensity of competition have increased over the past year and we expect competition to continue to increase in the future. Competitive pricing pressures have resulted in continued reductions in average selling prices of our existing products, and continued or increased competition could require us to further reduce the prices of our products, affect our ability to recover costs or result in reduced gross margins. If we are unable to timely and cost-effectively integrate more functionality onto single chip designs to help our customers reduce costs, we may lose market share, our revenues may decline and our gross margins may decrease significantly. Our success depends upon the digital media market and we must continue to develop new products and to enhance our existing products. The digital media industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, and changes in customer requirements. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate market needs and develop products that address those needs. As a result, our products could quickly become obsolete if we fail to predict market needs accurately or develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner. The long-term success in the digital media business will depend on the introduction of successive generations of products in time to meet the design cycles as well as the specifications of original equipment manufacturers of televisions. The digital media industry is characterized by an increasing level of integration and incorporation of greater numbers of features on a single chip, in order to permit enhanced systems at the same or lower cost. Our failure to predict market needs accurately or to timely develop new products or product enhancements, including integrated circuits with increasing levels of integration and new features, at competitive prices may harm market acceptance and sales of our products. If the development or enhancement of these products or any other future products takes longer than we anticipate, or if we are unable to introduce these products to market, our sales could decrease. Even if we are able to develop and commercially introduce these new products, the new products may not achieve the widespread market acceptance necessary to provide an adequate return on our investment. If we do not achieve additional design wins in the future, our ability to sell additional products could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on manufacturers of consumer televisions and other digital media products designing our products into their products. To achieve design wins with OEM customers and ODMs, we must define and deliver cost-effective, innovative and high performance integrated circuits on a timely basis, before our competitors do so. In addition, some OEM customers have begun to utilize digital video processor components produced by their own internal affiliates, which decreases our opportunity to achieve design wins. Thus, even if we achieve a design win with an ODM, their OEM customer may subsequently elect to purchase an integrated digital media solution from the ODM that does not incorporate our products. Once a supplier’s products have been designed into a system, a manufacturer may be reluctant to change components due to costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and determining performance capabilities of the component. Customers can choose at any time to discontinue using our products in their designs or product development efforts. Accordingly, we may face narrow windows of opportunity to be selected as the supplier of component parts by significant new customers. It may be difficult for us to sell to a particular customer for a significant period of time once that customer selects a competitor’s product, and we may not be successful in obtaining broader acceptance of our products. If we are unable to achieve broader market acceptance of our products, we may be unable to maintain and grow our business and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents The average selling prices of our products may decline over relatively short periods. Average selling prices for our products may decline over relatively short time periods. On average, we have experienced average selling price declines for our major products over the course of the last twelve months of anywhere from approximately 7% to 23% depending on the product. This annual pace of price decline for products or technology is generally expected in the consumer electronics industry. It is also possible for the pace of average selling price declines to accelerate beyond these levels for certain products in a commoditizing market. Price declines can be exacerbated by competitive pressures at specific customers and for specific products. When our average selling prices decline, our gross profits decline unless we are able to sell more products at higher gross margin or reduce the cost to manufacture our products. We generally attempt to combat average selling price declines by designing new products for reduced costs, innovating to integrate additional functions or features and working with our manufacturing partners to reduce the costs of manufacturing existing products. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience declining sales prices, which could negatively impact our revenues, gross profits and financial results. We therefore need to sell our higher margin products in increasing volumes to offset any decline in the average selling prices of our products, and introduce new higher margin products for sale in the future, which we may not be able to do on a timely basis. We may be required to record future charges to earnings if our intangible assets become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America to review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates, and changes in our financial results and outlook. We may be required to incur additional charges in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. In determining the fair value of intangible assets in connection with our impairment analysis, we consider various factors including Trident’s estimates of future market growth and trends, forecasted revenue and costs, discount rates, expected periods over which our assets will be utilized and other variables. Our assumptions were based on historical data and internal estimates developed as part of our long-term planning process. Although our market capitalization has been and continues to be less than our net book value as of June 30, 2009, we believe it is primarily due to market conditions and temporary in nature. Previously, we evaluated the visibility of our STB business in China and determined that the STB business in China was not directly aligned with our core strategy of pursuing DTV market opportunities. Accordingly, we decided not to allocate resources to the STB business concurrent with the acquisition of certain business lines from Micronas. Instead, we determined to utilize these resources to further penetrate and develop the SoC market. Our growth estimates were based on historical data and internal estimates developed as part of our long-term planning process. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain. If future conditions are different from management’s estimates at the time of an acquisition or market conditions change subsequently, we may incur future charges for impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We may face risks resulting from the failure to allow former employees to exercise stock options. On September 21, 2007, the SLC extended, until March 31, 2008, the period during which five former employees, including our former CEO, and two former non-employee directors, could exercise certain of their vested options. After we became current in the filing of our periodic reports with the SEC and filed a registration statement on Form S-8 covering shares issuable under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, these five individuals requested to exercise certain of their vested options. However, the SLC initially decided that it was in the best interests of our stockholders not to allow these five individuals to exercise their vested options during the pendency of the SLC’s proceedings. During the three month period ended March 31, 2008, the SLC allowed one former employee to exercise all of his fully vested stock options and another former employee agreed to cancel that entire individual’s fully vested stock options. Also during the three month period ended March 31, 2008, the SLC entered into an agreement with our former CEO, allowing him to exercise all of his fully vested stock options and extended, until August 31, 2008, the period during which the two former non-employee directors could exercise their unexpired vested options. However, on May 29, 2008, the SLC permitted one of our former non-employee directors to exercise his fully vested stock options without seeking the authorization of the SLC and entered into an agreement with the other former non-employee director on terms similar to the agreement entered into with our former CEO, allowing him to exercise all of his fully vested stock options without seeking the authorization from the SLC. Because Trident’s stock price during fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was lower than the prices at which our former CEO and each of the two former directors had desired to exercise their options, as indicated in previous written notices to the SLC, we recorded a contingent liability totaling $4.3 million, which was included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2008 and the related expenses were included in “Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses” in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The $4.3 million contingent liability remains in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2009. On August 11, 2009, in connection with negotiations between the SLC and our former CEO, an agreement was executed tolling the statute of limitations applicable to potential claims by our former CEO against us from the date of execution until November 8, 2009. We may incur charges in the future related to claims that may be made by these individuals which may be material. 16 Table of Contents We do not have long-term commitments from our customers, and plan purchases based upon our estimates of customer demand, which may require us to contract for the manufacture of our products based on inaccurate estimates. Our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our customers may cancel or defer purchases at any time. This requires us to forecast demand based upon assumptions that may not be correct. If we or our customers overestimate demand, we may create inventory that we may not be able to sell or use, resulting in excess inventory, which could become obsolete or negatively affect our operating results. Conversely, if we or our customers underestimate demand, or if sufficient manufacturing capacity is not available, we may lose revenue opportunities, damage customer relationships and we may not achieve expected revenue. Our dependence on sales to distributors increases the risks of managing our supply chain and may result in excess inventory or inventory shortages. Currently, the majority of our sales through distributors are made by companies that function as purchasing conduits for each of two large Japanese OEM customers. Generally, the distributors take certain inventory positions and resell to their respective OEM customers. We have a more traditional distributor relationship with our remaining distributors that involve the distributor taking inventory positions and reselling to multiple customers. In our distributor relationships, we have recognized revenue when the distributors sell the product through to their end user customers. These distributor relationships have reduced our ability to forecast sales and increased risks to our business. Since our distributors act as intermediaries between us and the end user customers, we must rely on our distributors to accurately report inventory levels and production forecasts. This requires us to manage a more complex supply chain and monitor the financial condition and credit worthiness of our distributors and the end user customers. Our failure to manage one or more of these risks could result in excess inventory or shortages that could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Product supply and demand in the semiconductor industry is subject to cyclical variations. The semiconductor industry is subject to cyclical variations in product supply and demand. Downturns in the industry often occur in connection with, or anticipation of, maturing product cycles for both semiconductor companies and their customers and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by abrupt fluctuations in product demand and production capacity and accelerated decline of average selling prices. The recent emergence of a number of negative economic factors, including heightened fears of a recession, could lead to such a downturn. We cannot predict whether we will achieve timely, cost-effective access to that capacity when needed, or what capacity patterns may emerge in the future. A downturn in the semiconductor industry could harm our sales and revenues if demand for our products drops, or cause our gross margins to suffer if average selling prices decline. We have had fluctuations in quarterly results in the past and may continue to experience such fluctuations in the future. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors including: • our ability to obtain the anticipated benefits of the acquisition from Micronas; • our ability to develop, introduce, ship and support new products and product enhancements, especially our newer SoC products, and to manage product transitions; • new product introductions by our competitors; • delayed new product introductions; • uncertain demand in the digital media markets in which we have limited experience; • our ability to achieve required product cost reductions; • the mix of products sold and the mix of distribution channels through which they are sold; • fluctuations in demand for our products, including seasonality; 17 Table of Contents • unexpected product returns or the cancellation or rescheduling of significant orders; • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; • unfavorable responses to new products; • adverse economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Asia; and • unexpected costs associated with our investigation of our historical stock option grant practices and related issues, and any related litigation or regulatory actions. These factors are often difficult or impossible to forecast or predict, and these or other factors could cause our revenue and expenses to fluctuate over interim periods, increase our operating expenses, or adversely affect our results of operations or business condition. We are vulnerable to undetected product problems. Although we establish and implement test specifications, impose quality standards upon our suppliers and perform separate application-based compatibility and system testing, our products may contain undetected defects, which may or may not be material, and which may or may not have a feasible solution. Although we have experienced such errors in the past, significant errors have generally been detected relatively early in a product’s life cycle and therefore the costs associated with such errors have been immaterial. We cannot ensure that such errors will not be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may materially adversely affect our business by causing us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and causing significant customer relations problems. Defects or other performance problems in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers or could damage market acceptance of our products. Our customers could seek damages from us for their losses as a result of problems with our products or order less of our products, which would harm our financial results. Our reliance upon a very small number of foundries could make it difficult to maintain product flow and affect our sales. If the demand for our products grows or decreases by material amounts, we will need to adjust the levels of our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions. Any disruptions in product flow could limit our ability to meet orders, impact our revenue and our ability to consummate sales, adversely affect our competitive position and reputation and result in additional costs or cancellation of orders. We do not own or operate fabrication facilities and do not manufacture our products internally. We currently rely principally upon one independent foundry to manufacture substantially all of our SoC products and non-audio discrete products in wafer form and other contract manufacturers for assembly and testing of our products and we rely upon Micronas for the manufacture of our discrete audio products on a turnkey basis pursuant to a services agreement. Generally, we place orders by purchase order, and the foundry is not obligated to manufacture our products on a long-term fixed-price basis, so it is not obligated to supply us with products for any specific period of time, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Our requirements typically represent only a small portion of the total production capacity of this independent foundry and our contract manufacturers. Our foundry and contract manufacturers could re-allocate capacity to other customers, even during periods of high demand for our products. We have limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, potential errors in manufacturing and production costs. We could experience an interruption in our access to certain process technologies necessary for the manufacture of our products. From time to time, there are manufacturing capacity shortages in the semiconductor industry and current global economic conditions make it more likely those disruptions in supply chain cycles could occur. If we encounter shortages and delays in obtaining components, our ability to meet customer orders would be materially adversely affected. In addition, during periods of increased demand, putting pressure on the foundry to meet orders, we may have reduced control over pricing and timely delivery of components, and if the foundry increases the cost of components or subassemblies, our margins will be adversely affected, and we may not have alternative sources of supply to manufacture such components. Constraints or delays in the supply of our products, whether because of capacity constraints, unexpected disruptions at our independent foundry, at Micronas or at our assembly or testing houses, delays in additional production at existing foundries or in obtaining additional production from existing or new foundries, shortages of raw materials, or other reasons, could result in the loss of customers and other material adverse effects on our operating results, including effects that may result should we be forced to purchase products from higher cost foundries or pay expediting charges to obtain additional supplies. In addition, to the extent we elect to use multiple sources for certain products, our customers may be required to qualify multiple sources, which could adversely affect their desire to design-in our products and reduce our revenues. 18 Table of Contents If we have to qualify new contract manufacturers or foundries for any of our products, we may experience delays that result in lost revenues and damaged customer relationships. We rely on two principal suppliers to manufacture our products in wafer form. The lead time required to establish a relationship with a new foundry is long, and it takes time to adapt a product’s design to a particular manufacturer’s processes. Accordingly, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for any specific product. This could cause significant delays in shipping products if we have to change our source of supply and manufacture quickly, which could damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our sales and financial results. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which may be difficult. The digital media market is a highly competitive industry in which we, and most other participants, rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect proprietary rights. The competitive nature of our industry, rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards heighten the importance of protecting proprietary technology rights. Since patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office may be kept confidential, our pending patent applications may attempt to protect proprietary technology claimed in a third-party patent application. Our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies as policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus make the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely in these countries. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents or other intellectual property. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology rights, others may be able to use our proprietary technology without having to compensate us, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our ability to compete effectively. We have in the past, and may in the future, file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation or resulting counterclaims, we could lose our proprietary rights and incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention. In addition, failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity and our ability to compete effectively. We have been involved in intellectual property infringement claims, and may be involved in others in the future, which can be costly. Our industry is very competitive and is characterized by frequent litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in our industry have already been issued and as the market further develops and additional intellectual property protection is obtained by participants in our industry, litigation is likely to become more frequent. From time to time, third parties have asserted and are likely in the future to assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies or rights that are important to our business. Historically we have been involved in such disputes. For example, we are currently defending a patent infringement lawsuit brought by Gregory Bender, an individual, in the United States District Court of Northern California, although the patent asserted by Mr. Bender has expired. In addition, we have and may in the future enter into agreements to indemnify our customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of patents, trademarks or copyrights of third parties. Litigation or other disputes or negotiations arising from claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, whether with or without merit, has been and may in the future be, time-consuming, resulting in significant expenses and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We do not have insurance against our alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property of others. Any such claims that may be filed against us in the future, if resolved adversely to us, could cause us to stop sales of our products which incorporate the challenged intellectual property and could also result in product shipment delays or require us to redesign or modify our products or to enter into licensing agreements. These licensing agreements, if required, would increase our product costs and may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If there is a successful claim of infringement or we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on a timely and reasonable basis, our business could be harmed. 19 Table of Contents If necessary licenses of third-party technology are not available to us or are very expensive, our products could become obsolete. From time to time, we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or enhance current products. Third-party licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and enhance current products, or if our licensor’s technology is no longer available to us because it is determined to infringe another third-party’s intellectual property rights, we may have to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. We are also subject to the interpretations of foreign regulatory bodies in connection with reviews conducted of our subsidiaries and their operations, including the completion of liquidation of TTI in Taiwan in fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. While we believe our tax reserves adequately provide for any tax contingencies, the ultimate outcomes of any current or future tax audits are uncertain, and we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. Changes in our business and product strategy could affect our operations. Our principal design, development and marketing effort focuses primarily on our digital media products. These products are now our only product line and our success in the near term depends upon the growth of the market for these products and our success in this market. Our success in the longer term will also depend on our ability to develop and introduce other digital media products. We plan to continue developing the next generation DTV and HiDTV, as well as other advanced products for the digital media market in Japan, South Korea, Europe, and Asia Pacific. We have limited experience with our discrete FRC, demodulator and audio products. There can be no guarantee that our digital media products will be accepted by the market or increase our revenues or profitability. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. Factors such as new product announcements by us or our competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, unfavorable conditions in the digital media market, failure to obtain design wins, as well as the results of our investigation of our historical stock option grant practices and related issues, and any litigation or regulatory actions arising as a result, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. For example, the price of our common stock declined by more than 54% from the beginning to the end of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. These conditions, as well as factors that generally affect the market for stocks, and stocks in high-technology companies in particular, could cause the price of our stock to fluctuate from time to time. 20 Table of Contents We currently rely on certain international customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and are subject to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. As a result of our focus on digital media products, we expect to be primarily dependent on international sales and operations, particularly in Japan, South Korea, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Our revenues may continue to be highly concentrated in a small number of geographic regions in the future. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, which could adversely affect future results, including: • exchange rate variations, tariffs, import/export restrictions and other trade barriers; • potential adverse tax consequences; • challenges in effectively managing distributors or representatives to maximize sales; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • political and economic instability, civil unrest, war or terrorist activities that impact international commerce; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; and • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Our international sales currently are principally U.S. dollar-denominated. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. We cannot be sure that those of our international customers who currently place orders in U.S. dollars will continue to be willing to do so. If they do not, our revenues would become subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business. We conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the State of California, Taiwan and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. The insurance coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. A major earthquake or other disaster affecting our suppliers’ facilities and our administrative offices could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities and our administrative offices; these delays could be lengthy and result in significant expenses. In addition, our administrative offices in the State of California may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. Any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. In addition, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any natural disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 