Risk Factors,” and from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. For this purpose, statements concerning industry or market segment outlook, market acceptance of or transition to new products, revenues, earnings growth, other financial results and any statements using the terms “believe,” “expect,” “expectation,” “anticipate,” “can,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “estimate,” “appear,” “based on,” “may,” “intended,” “potential,” “are emerging” and “possible” or similar statements are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and the outcome and timing of certain events to differ materially from those projected or management’s current expectations. By making forward-looking statements, we have not assumed any obligation to, and you should not expect us to, update or revise those statements because of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We design, develop and market integrated circuits, or ICs, and associated software for digital media applications, such as digital television, or digital TV, liquid crystal display television, or LCD TV, and digital set-top boxes, or STB. We also design cross-platform software that allows multimedia applications to run on devices in the digital living room such as digital STBs and digital TV sets. Since 1987 we have designed, developed and marketed very large-scale ICs for graphics applications, historically for the personal computer, or PC, market, and since 1999 for digitally processed televisions, or DPTVTM, for the consumer television market. In June 2003 we announced a restructuring of our business to divest our legacy graphics business and in a separate transaction merged our digital media segment with Trident Technologies, Inc., or TTI, — a Taiwanese company that was 99.9% owned by Trident at June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, in order to strengthen and extend our digital TV business. TTI had previously operated primarily as a Taiwan-based semiconductor design house developing video processing technologies useful for digital media applications. Since June 2003, we have focused our business primarily in the growing DPTV market and related areas. We reorganized again in 2006, and since September 1, 2006, we have conducted this business primarily through our Cayman Islands subsidiary, Trident Microsystems (Far East) Ltd., or TMFE. Research and development services relating to existing projects and certain new projects are provided by both Trident Microsystems, Inc. and our subsidiaries, Trident Multimedia Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., or TMT, and Trident Microsystems (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or Trident Beijing. Prior to its acquisition in March 2008, Trident Beijing was a privately held company known as Beijing Tiside Electronics Design Co., Ltd., or Tiside. Operations and field application engineering support and certain sales activities are conducted through our Taiwanese subsidiary, Trident Microelectronics Co. Ltd., or TML, and other affiliates. TTI is currently in liquidation. We operate in one reportable segment: digital media solutions. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the digital media segment accounted for nearly all of our revenues. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the digital media segment accounted for $257.9 million, $270.8 million, and $171.4 million in revenues, respectively. As a percentage of total revenues for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the digital media segment accounted for 100%, 100%, and 99% of our revenues for those years, respectively. We also sell a product that focuses on digital TV in the PC market and revenues generated from this product are included in the digital media segment. We also provide some engineering consulting services, which are included in the digital media segment. 3 Table of Contents We have been investing in the digital media market for several years. During that time, the digital TV industry has grown rapidly. We believe that this industry continues to offer growth opportunities. To date, we continue to invest in developing strong relationships with large original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, in the consumer electronics area, such as Sony, Samsung, Sharp, Philips and others. We are also focused on developing strong relationships with fast growing Chinese manufacturers such as Skyworth, TCL, Konka, Changhong, Xoceco, Hisense and Haier, and leading European manufacturers such as Vestel Grundig, although a majority of the market today is held by large OEMs. We believe that over time more of the high volume digital media business will migrate to the Taiwanese and Chinese original-design manufacturers, or ODMs. Accordingly, we believe that it is important to have strong relationships among customers operating at both ends of the market. We have also invested in integrating key technologies and providing integrated system-on-a-chip, or SoC, advantages to our customers, including innovation in video quality. We believe that this combination of our early entrance and success in this area of the market, our many years of experience in enhancing digital image quality, and our success with top tier world class TV manufacturers could provide a strategic advantage for us in the emerging market for SoC products. Trident’s market strategy relies on leveraging television display controller design wins to further supply digital decoding and other value-added portions of television systems to leading consumer electronics OEMs. Trident’s goal is to create an integrated video decoder and processor that achieves superior image quality and is attractive to the world’s leading television OEMs. Achievement of this goal will require both mixed signal semiconductor and television system knowledge as well as the ability to work with customers who are experts in these areas in an inventive learning process that involves multiple design cycles. Successful execution of this strategy will require us to be an early mover with new technology and to achieve outstanding execution of complex SoC designs. We established our position as an early mover through the industry’s first integration of multi-standard video decoding and comb filtering with advanced video processing with the introduction of the DPTV-DX chip in 2001. We again demonstrated our ability to lead with new technology by introducing the industry’s first integrated 10-bit ADC in the DPTV 3D Pro in 2002. In 2005 we introduced advanced video processing integrated with ATSC/DVB decoding and HDMI integrated with 10-bit 3D multi-standard video decoding. DVB, short for Digital Video Broadcasting, is a suite of internationally accepted open standards for digital television. The Advanced Television Systems Committee, or ATSC, has defined the digital television standard that is being implemented in North America. HDMI, or high-definition multimedia interface, is an all-digital audio/video interface capable of transmitting uncompressed streams. Achieving such industry firsts demonstrates our ability to timely execute highly complex chip designs which add significant additional features and performance. During the past two years we have continued to evolve our technology by developing products that include motion estimation and motion compensation technology, or MEMC, that helps to eliminate motion judder, which is most notable when a camera pans across a wide area. In addition, we have continued to focus on enhancing our highly integrated solution that adds MPEG decoding to image processing in the form of our high definition digital television, or HiDTV®, product lines. MPEG stands for Moving Picture Experts Group, the family of standards used for coding audio-visual information (e.g., movies, video and music) in a digital compressed format. Markets and Applications In fiscal year 2008, we focused our principal design, development and marketing efforts on our SoC products and we have begun to shift our product lines from discrete components to SoC. Our digital media products accounted for 99% or more of total revenues for each of our fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006. We plan to continue developing our next generation DPTV product, as well as other advanced products for digital TV and digital STB, for the worldwide digital television market. The DPTV family’s high levels of functional integration and video quality enable our customers to have flexibility and cost advantages in their advanced TV designs. The DPTV video processor converts both standard and high-definition analog TV signals into a high-quality progressive-scan video signal suitable for today’s advanced digital televisions. The HiDTV family applies the same concept of functional integration and video quality excellence to standard-definition and high-definition digital broadcast signals. We expect that the worldwide television market will eventually be dominated by digitally broadcast content; therefore, we believe that our future success depends on our ability to integrate additional technologies and have products that support market volume opportunity on an ongoing basis. However, we anticipate that the digital television market will substantially generate all of our revenues in the near term. 4 Table of Contents The following table describes our product families and markets: Product Family Description Markets DPTV/SVP Integrated multi-standard video decoding, format conversion, and image enhancement processors. Advanced TV including cathode ray tube, or CRT, plasma, LCD, rear- projection and front-projection display types, AV Notebook PC, Multi-function LCD Monitors. HiDTV Integrated ATSC/DVB (MPEG2) decoding, format conversion, and image enhancement processors. Digital TV including CRT, plasma, LCD, rear-projection and front-projection display types. TDM Demodulation for ATSC, DVB-C, DVB-T and DTMB IF signals. Digital TV including CRT, plasma, LCD, rear-projection and front-projection display types. Digital Media Products: We have been developing products for digital media applications since 1999. The DPTV market in particular has begun to emerge as a high volume market for these products. Our DPTV products are designed to optimize and enhance video quality for various display devices, such as cathode ray television, or CRT TV, liquid crystal display television, plasma display panel, or PDP, projection television, liquid crystal display projection TV, and AV notebooks. DCRe®. DCRe, Digital Cinema Reality Engine, is Trident’s proprietary technology to address the need for today’s high-end multimedia digital television application requirement. It embodies Trident’s DPTV design by offering a highly integrated and common-chassis multimedia digital television design platform that is both a high quality television set as well as a multimedia display terminal for PC graphics. This design platform is able to receive and decode the conventional NTSC, PAL and SECAM broadcasting signals, the three main video broadcast standards, to display PC VGA inputs and to receive high definition component inputs from a digital STB. SVP-AXTM. The SVP-AX is Trident’s seventh-generation all-in-one video processor for entry-level advanced digital TVs. Optimizing DCRe technology to meet the needs of cost-effective systems, the SVP-AX targets mid to large-size displays up to “1080p” (1920x1080p) resolution. The SVP-AX includes many of the improvements in video decoding, video processing, and display interface, as found in the SVP-WX. In addition, the SVP-AX features an embedded multi-standard audio decoder and processor. The SVP-AX targets the entry-level market for LCD, PDP, and DLP TVs for the leading branded TV OEMs. SVP-CXTM. The SVP-CX is Trident’s sixth-generation all-in-one video processor for entry-level advanced digital TVs. Optimizing DCRe technology to meet the needs of cost-effective systems, the SVP-CX targets small and mid-size displays up to “WXGA” (1366x768p resolution) resolution. The SVP-CX includes many of the improvements in video decoding, video processing, display interface, and specific European-market functionality as the SVP-PX. The SVP-CX targets the entry-level market for LCD, PDP, and DLP TVs for the leading branded TV OEMs. SVP-EXTM. The SVP-EX is Trident’s fifth-generation all-in-one video processor product family. It features the industry’s first TruevideoTM 10-bit video processing technology that is optimized for 1080i HDTV component input. Embedded with a DCRe engine, the SVP-EX video processor delivers the highest quality digital video images. The DCRe technology integrates an advanced 3D-comb video decoder, advance motion adaptive de-interlacing engine for up to 1080i input, object-based digital noise reduction, cubic-4 image scaling, film mode support, APL feedback to increase the TV set dynamic range, edge smoothing, and dynamic sharpness enhancement. The SVP-EX video processor is equipped with numerous outputs, including a 24-bit transistor-transistor logic, or TTL, digital to analog converter, or DAC, and low voltage differential signaling, or LVDs interface, providing versatility with Trident proprietary DCRe technology. It delivers vivid cinema-realistic motion and still images. The SVP-EX processor targets the high-performance flat-panel LCD, rear-projection, flat CRT, and plasma display TV markets. 5 Table of Contents SVP-LXTM. The SVP-LX is Trident’s sixth-generation all-in-one video processor for high-end advanced digital TVs. The SVP-LX targets large-size high-definition (1920x1080p resolution) displays. The SVP-LX includes improvements in video decoding, video processing, display interface, and specific European-market functionality such as SCART, and associated 21-pin connector for connecting audio-visual equipment. The SVP-LX targets the high-end market for LCD, PDP, and DLP TVs. SVP-PXTM. The SVP-PX video processor is a highly integrated SoC device, targeting the converging HDTV-ready and PC-ready LCD TV, PDP TV, and DLP TV applications where high-precision processing of video and data are required. SVP-PX contains our sixth generation dual-purpose triple 10-bit high-precision and high-speed video analog to digital converters, or ADCs, for both PC and video inputs, the high-performance multi-format 3D digital “comb filter” or television video decoder that supports NTSC, PAL and SECAM broadcasting signals, a HDTV sync separator, motion adaptive de-interlacing engine, and the video format conversion engine, supporting multi-window display in many different output modes. Trident’s DCRe engine — digital cinema reality engine, is integrated inside the SVP-PX to provide the highly natural cinema-realistic images. The DCRe technology integrates advanced 3D-comb video decoding, advanced motion adaptive de-interlacing, object-based digital noise reduction, our advanced sixth generation scaler, film mode support, average picture level, or APL, edge smoothing and dynamic sharpness enhancement. Trident’s patented Unified Memory Architecture, or UMA, allows frame rate conversion, 3D comb video decoding, and video enhancement processing to share the same frame buffer memory that is made up of high-speed and cost-effective PC graphic memory. All of these advanced digital processing techniques are combined with a true 10-bit video data processing for the most optimal video fidelity in order to provide the natural and cinema-quality video images. Designed for maximum system design flexibility, SVP-PX integrates all video interfaces to support converging digital video, analog video and PC data applications. The users of Trident’s single chip SVP-PX video processor(s) will benefit from many features while maintaining a price competitive advantage over existing solution(s). SVP-UX/WXTM. SVP-UX/WX is Trident’s seventh-generation all-in-one video processor product family. The video processors are highly integrated SoC devices for providing the highest performance, targeting the fast growing HDTV and PC-ready LCD TV, PDP TV, and DLP TV applications where high precision processing of video and data are the requirements. SVP-UX/WX contains dual purposed triple 10-bit high-precision and high speed video ADCs for both PC and video inputs, the high speed HDMI could support all HDMI inputs up to 162 MHz with HDCP format, the high performance multi-format 3D digital comb video decoder that supports NTSC, PAL, and SECAM, a HDTV sync separator, and motion adaptive de-interlacing engine. SVP-UX/WX is Trident’s 7th generation DCRe super video processor which integrates a high performance MEMC engine. The MEMC technology analyzes the movements between successive fields through the method of motion estimation engine and then inserts motion compensated frames to remove motion judders for video sources from movie films. The DCRe technology integrates advanced 3D-comb video decoding, motion adaptive deinterlacing, object-based digital noise reduction, advanced seventh generation scaling engine, film mode support, APL, edge smoothing and dynamic sharpness enhancement. HiDTV®. HiDTV® is the first-generation, SoC digital TV engine for the design of HiDTV® systems. It integrates a 32-bit embedded CPU microprocessor, a MPEG2 MP@HL decoder, a programmable MPEG audio decoder supporting AC3, AAC and MP3, a transport stream demultiplexer that supports ATSC and DVB standards, TDES and DVB common descrambler, a high performance graphics engine, and key video enhancement processing technologies for the DPTV products to enhance the analog TV signals. A unified external DDR DRAM is used for both system buffers and application programming. HiDTV® integrates all key functions needed to support both digital and analog TV broadcasting with minimum external components. Components such as video decoders and demodulators can interface with HiDTV without external glue logic. HiDTV integrates standard I/O interfaces such as UART, IR, and smart card interface. HiDTV® LX. HiDTV® LX integrates Trident’s dual-channel fourth-generation video processor core with a 180MHz 32-bit embedded CPU, a single-stream high-definition MPEG2 decoder, and peripheral interface functions such as PCI. The HiDTV® LX enables TV system OEMs to create high-quality digital television systems capable of decoding ATSC, DVB, and ARIB transport streams with no sacrifice in picture quality. 6 Table of Contents HiDTV®PRO. HiDTV® PRO is Trident’s second generation, SoC digital TV engine for the design of HiDTV systems. It integrates dual 32-bit embedded CPU, dual MPEG2 MP@HL decoders, a programmable MPEG audio decoder supporting AC3, AAC and MP3, a transport stream demultiplexer that supports ATSC, DVB and ARIB standards, TDES, Multi2 and DVB common descrambler, a high-performance 2D graphics engine, and Trident’s SVP-LX with DCRe video processing to enhance all essential video signals. A unified external DDR2 DRAM is used for both system buffers and application programming. HiDTV® PRO integrates all key functions needed to support both digital and analog TV broadcasting with minimum external components. Components such as video decoders and demodulators can interface with HiDTV® PRO without external glue logic. HiDTV® PRO integrates standard I/O interfaces such as UART, IR, and smart card interface. It also integrates a POD controller that supports US digital cable-ready applications. HiDTV® Pro AX. HiDTV® Pro AX is Trident’s latest all-in-one SoC digital TV engine for high-definition digital TV systems. It includes all key functions needed for both high quality digital and analog TV broadcasting with minimum external components. It integrates two 350MHz 32-bit microprocessors, ATSC channel decoder (optional), MPEG2 decoders, a programmable audio decoder, a high performance graphics engine, and Trident’s industry-leading DCRe video processor. HiDTV® Pro AX aims to be the heart of the ATSC TV platforms with superior levels of quality performance. HiDTV® Pro FX. HiDTV® Pro FX is a SoC digital TV engine for high definition TV systems. It consists of a 250MHz 32-bit embedded CPU, MPEG-2 decoders, programmable MPEG audio decoder, a transport stream supporting ATSC, DVB, and ARIB standards, 2D graphics engine and Trident’s industry leading DCRe video processor for enhancing video signals. Its superior video quality and competitive feature set can be seen in some of the market leading TV platforms today. HiDTV® Pro PX/LX. HiDTV® Pro PX/LX integrates Trident’s sixth-generation dual-channel video processor core with a 250MHz 32-bit embedded CPU, a dual-stream high-definition MPEG2 decoder, and additional peripheral interface functions such as USB 2.0 and logic supporting digital-cable-ready, and common-interface, or CI, protocols. HiDTV Pro PX supports 1366x768-resolution displays while HiDTV Pro LX supports 1920x768 HD displays. In conjunction with the Trident Analog Front End, or TAFE, chip the HiDTV® Pro family enables leading digital TV OEMs to create cost-effective no-compromise solutions for the integrated digital decoding segment of the world-wide DTV market. HiDTV® Pro QX/WX. HiDTV® Pro QX/WX is Trident’s new generation of system-on-a-chip digital TV processor designed to provide the highest video performance in HD digital TV. It incorporates Trident’s 7th generation DCRe, two 350MHz 32-bit embedded CPU, a 2D graphic engine, a MPEG-2 decoder, a programmable audio decoder, and a transport stream de-multiplexer that supports a variety of digital TV broadcast standards. It is also the first HDTV® SoC in the industry that integrates the MEMC technology on the same die in support of 120Hz Full HD panels. HiDTV® Pro QX/WX is a cost effective solution addressing the high performance large screen segment of the market. TAFETM. Our TAFE product is the result of our collaboration with a third party in integrating HDMI with advanced digital TV functions. TAFE integrates dual HDMI receivers with Trident’s sixth-generation 3D video decoder. A 30-bit interface to Trident’s HiDTV Pro family of integrated digital video processors ensures that video quality is not compromised. TAFE and HiDTV Pro PX/LX represent Trident’s market strategy to meet the needs of top-tier digital TV OEMs. PCTV Application Products: TV MasterTM TM6000. The TV Master TM6000 is a highly integrated system-on chip device, designed to transform ordinary notebooks and desktop PCs into high quality PC/TVs and media center PCs. The TV Master TM6000 integrates dual 10-bit high-quality video ADCs with a 2D digital comb filter, multi-standard color decoder, dual 16-bit audio ADCs, USB2.0 controller and PHY, the electronic IC or functional block of a circuit that takes care of encoding and decoding between a pure digital domain, and a modulation in the analog domain, and an embedded MPU. Our TV Master TM6000 has achieved a high level of integration for the USB2.0 TV tuner box and TV add-in card application. TV Master TM6000 also supports digital AV streams in transport-stream, or TS, format 7 Table of Contents and is one of the first USB 2.0 TV capture devices to support both analog and digital TVs (DVB-T/S/C/H, ATSC, DMB and others) with minimum external components. TV MasterTM TM5600. The TV Master TM5600 is a pin-to-pin compatible IC with TM6000; containing the same application functions as TM6000, but without the support of digital TV TS input. TV Solution Products: Connected TV Solution. Our future Connected TV Solution will run on a STB, utilizing a Trident or third-party platform, and will allow a TV set to connect to the cable system of a cable operator. Connected TV Solution supports uni-directional and bi-directional services, and supports most widely used forms of Conditional Access. Boot Loader is a critical function within Connected TV Solution that allows firmware updates from the cable operators. Connected TV Solution integrates applications including electronic program guides, or EPGs, Mosaic, near video-on-demand, or nVOD, and browsers. Connected TV Solution supports the DVB — C and MPEG decoding standards, and QAM16/32/64/128/256 demodulation. Connected TV Solution also supports both standard definition and high definition formats. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We sell our products primarily to digital television original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, in Japan, South Korea, Europe and Asia Pacific, either directly or through their supplier channel. We consider these OEMs to be our customers. Our products are sold through direct sales efforts, distributors and independent sales representatives. Historically, significant portions of our revenue have been generated by sales to a relatively small number of customers. Our digitally processed television products are marketed primarily from our offices in Taipei, Taiwan; Shanghai, China; and Santa Clara, California. Our offices are staffed with sales, applications engineering, technical support, customer service and administrative personnel to support our direct customers. Our future success depends in large part on the success of our sales to leading digital television manufacturers. Accordingly, the focus of our sales and marketing efforts is to increase sales to the leading digital television manufacturers and OEM channels. Competitive factors of particular importance to success in such markets include TV platform support, product performance and the integration of functions on a single integrated circuit chip. We service our customers primarily through our offices in the United States, Taiwan, China and Japan. As digital media is rapidly developing in the United States, Europe, Japan, South Korea, China, and elsewhere, we expect that leadership in the digital media industry will also rapidly change. Our goal is to become a leading supplier to a broad range of manufacturers in this marketplace, and to manufacturers for other markets as DPTV sales increase in those markets. During fiscal years 2007 and 2006, a majority of our revenues was generated through sales to customers located in Asia and Japan. During fiscal year 2008, we generated nearly all of our revenues from customers located in Asia and Japan. A small number of customers typically account for a majority of our revenues in any quarter. Our top three customers accounted for 76% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. However, sales to any particular customer may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, sales to three end customers, Samsung, Midoriya (a distributor supplying Sony) and Philips, each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues. In Philips’ case, sales are principally made to three contract manufacturers that supply Philips. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, sales to Samsung and Midoriya each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues. Fluctuations in sales to any of these key customers may adversely affect our operating results in the future. We anticipate that sales to customers in Japan will continue to account for a substantial percentage of our revenues in fiscal year 2009. For additional information on foreign and domestic operations, see Note 12, “Segment and Geographic Information and Major Customers,” of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition The global digital media market and related industries are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Our ability to compete depends primarily on our ability to commercialize our technology, 8 Table of Contents continually improve our products and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. We expect competition to continue to increase. The principal factors upon which competitors compete in our markets include, but are not limited to, price, performance, the timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors, product features, level of integration of various functions, quality and customer support. Substantial competition exists in all areas of our business. In the digital media market, our principal competitors are Broadcom Corporation, Media Tek Ltd., Micronas AG, Morning Star, NXP Semiconductors, ST Microelectronics, Toshiba, and Zoran Corporation. Other smaller competitors supplying LCDTV chip sets may arise in the future. Many of our current competitors and many potential competitors have significantly greater technical, manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we have. We plan to continue developing the next generation DPTV and HiDTV as well as other advanced products for digitally processed television and digital STBs for worldwide markets. We believe that the market for digital media will continue to be competitive and will require substantial research and development, sales, and marketing efforts for us to remain competitive. We expect to devote significant resources to compete in this market. Research and Development Developing products based on advanced technological concepts is essential to our ability to compete effectively in the digital media marketplace. We maintain a product research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. We have conducted substantially all of our product development in-house and, as of June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our staff of research and development personnel comprised 465 people, 290 people and 214 people, respectively. Research and development expenditures totaled approximately $53 million, $41 million and $33 million in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We believe that the achievement of higher levels of integration and the timely introduction of new products is essential to our growth. We continue to invest the largest component of our engineering resources at our Shanghai facility and continue to acquire or develop intellectual property which puts us on par with our competition while maintaining our leadership in picture quality. During March 2008, we added a small research and development facility in Beijing. Our current plans are to maintain our research and development staffing levels in fiscal year 2009. Manufacturing We have adopted a “fabless” manufacturing strategy whereby we contract-out our wafer fabricating needs to qualified contractors that we believe provide cost, technology or capacity advantages for specific products. As a result, we have generally been able to avoid the significant capital investment required for wafer fabrication facilities and to focus our resources on product design, quality assurance, marketing and customer support. From our August 2003 restructuring through September 2006, TTI provided manufacturing operations for our digital media business segment; these operations are now conducted through TML, our Taiwanese subsidiary, and other affiliates. During fiscal year 2008, United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, in which we held an investment in common stock valued at $26.6 million as of June 30, 2008, provided substantially all of our foundry requirements, and we expect that UMC will provide substantially all of our foundry requirements during fiscal year 2009. We purchase product in wafer form from foundries and contract with third parties to provide chip packaging and testing. In order to manage the production and back-end operations, we have increased personnel and added equipment to our manufacturing and test development operations. Our goal is to increase the quality assurance of our products while reducing manufacturing cost. To ensure the integrity of our suppliers’ quality assurance procedures, we have developed and maintained test tools, detailed test procedures and test specifications for each product produced on our behalf, and we require the foundry and third party contractors to follow those procedures and meet our specifications before shipping finished products. In general, we have experienced a relatively low amount of product returns from our customers. However, our future return experience may vary because our more advanced, more complex SoC products are more difficult to manufacture and test and we have limited experience producing them. In addition, some of our customers may subject our more advanced products to more rigid testing standards than have been applied to our prior products. 9 Table of Contents Backlog Our sales are primarily made pursuant to standard purchase orders and not pursuant to long term agreements specifying future quantities or delivery dates. Backlog only includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers, including our OEM customers. Because we recognize product revenues on sales made to our distributor channel on a deferred revenue basis and this channel represents approximately 50% of our revenues, backlog comprised of orders from distributors is not directly indicative of our near term revenues. Although we review backlog at the beginning of each quarter to monitor our sales pipeline and its impact on revenues for the quarter, due to the volume of sales to distributors, backlog may not be directly indicative of revenues to be generated in the immediately following quarter. Backlog is influenced by several factors including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction to product lead times. The semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time orders and quick delivery schedules. The quantity of products purchased by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers’ requirements and in manufacturing availability. Further, a substantial number of our customers are required to post a letter of credit or pay for products in advance of shipment, so that if the customer does not provide this type of security on a timely basis, the backlog may be rescheduled or simply never materialize. Backlog quantities and shipment schedules under outstanding purchase orders are frequently revised to reflect changes in customer needs, and agreements calling for the sale of specific quantities are either contractually subject to quantity revisions or, as a matter of industry practice, are often not enforced. Therefore, a significant portion of our order backlog may be cancelable. For these reasons, in light of industry practice and this experience, we do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is indicative of future results. Seasonality Our industry is largely focused on the consumer products market. Typically we experience seasonally slower sales in our third and fourth quarters ending on March 31 and on June 30 of each year. Patent and Proprietary Rights We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information primarily through agreements with customers and suppliers, proprietary information agreements with employees and consultants and other security measures. Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. We have obtained 16 digital video processing technology patents from July 2002 to July 2008, including 5 U.S. patents and 11 patents in foreign jurisdictions, and we have various other patent applications pending in different countries. However, there can be no assurance that third parties will not independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received notices claiming that we or our customers have infringed third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. To date, licenses generally have been available to us where third-party technology was necessary or useful for the development or production of our products. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert additional claims against us with respect to existing or future products or that licenses will be available on reasonable terms, or at all, with respect to any third-party technology. Any litigation to determine the validity of any third-party claims could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such development or that any such licenses would be available. Patent disputes in the semiconductor industry have often been settled through cross licensing arrangements. Because we currently do not have a large portfolio of patents, we may not be able to settle any alleged patent infringement claim through a cross-licensing arrangement. In the event any third party made a valid claim against us, or our customers, and a license was not made available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we would be adversely affected. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which our products have been or may be developed, manufactured or sold, 10 Table of Contents including China, Taiwan and South Korea, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States of America. We may in the future initiate claims or proceedings against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights. Any such claims could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Trademarks DCRE, DPTV, HiDTV, PanelPro, PanelTV, PanelVision, Trident and the Trident Logo, Trident Microsystems, Inc., and TrueVideo, are our registered trademarks. DCI, HiDTV LX, HiDTV PRO, HiDSTB, HiDTV Pro FX, HiDTV Pro PX/LX, HiDTV Pro QX, JF NMC, PCM, RCM, SVP-AX, SVP-CX, SVP-EX, SVP-LX, SVP-PX, SVP-WX, TAFE, TNMC, and TV Master are our trademarks. Other trademarks used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. Employees As of June 30, 2008, we had 624 full-time employees, 77 in the United States and 547 in Asia. Our future success will depend in great part on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and management personnel. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreements, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are good. Available Information We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. You may obtain a free copy of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and any amendments to the report on the day of filing with the SEC or on our website on the World Wide Web at http://www.tridentmicro.com. We do not make available on our website quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K because we state on our website the location where such filings can be found on the SEC website and on http://www.FreeEdgar.com. You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports by contacting the Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices by calling 408-764-8808 or by sending an email message to investor@tridentmicrosyestems.com. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents As a result of our investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our previously-filed financial statements, we are subject to civil litigation claims and regulatory investigations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition. As previously described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 filed on August 7, 2007, we conducted an investigation into our historical stock option practices and related accounting. Based upon the findings of the investigation, we restated our financial statements for each of the years ended June 30, 1993 through June 30, 2005, and restated our financial statements for the interim first three quarters of fiscal year 2006 as well. Our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed and may continue to expose us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government inquiries and enforcement actions, as described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Any of these actions could result in civil and/or criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against us and the payment of significant fines and penalties by us. In addition, the restatements of our previous financial results and the ongoing regulatory proceedings and government inquiries could impact our relationships with customers and our ability to generate revenues. We face risks related to SEC, Department of Justice, or DOJ, and other investigations into our historical stock option grant practices and related accounting, which could require significant management time and attention, and could require us to pay fines or other penalties. The DOJ is currently conducting an investigation of us in connection with our investigation into our stock option grant practices and related issues, and we are subject to a subpoena from the DOJ. We are also subject to a formal investigation from the SEC on the same issue. We have been cooperating with, and continue to cooperate with, inquiries from the SEC and DOJ. We are unable to predict what consequences, if any, that any investigation by any regulatory agency may have on us. Any regulatory investigation could result in substantial legal and accounting expenses, divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business. Any civil or criminal action commenced against us by a regulatory agency could result in administrative orders against us, the imposition of significant penalties and/or fines against us, and/or the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions against us or certain of our former officers, directors and/or employees. Any regulatory action could result in the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements or require that we take other actions. If we are subject to an adverse finding resulting from the SEC and DOJ investigations, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us. The period of time necessary to resolve the investigations by the DOJ and the SEC is uncertain, and these matters could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. We have been named as a party to derivative action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which will require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Trident has been named as a nominal defendant in several purported shareholder derivative lawsuits concerning the granting of stock options. The federal court cases have been consolidated as In re Trident Microsystems Inc. Derivative Litigation, Master File No. C-06-3440-JF. A case also has been filed in State court, Limke v. Lin et al., No. 1:07-CV-080390. Plaintiffs in all cases allege that certain of our current or former officers and directors caused us to grant options at less than fair market value, contrary to our public statements (including our financial statements), and that this represented a breach of their fiduciary duties to us, and as a result those officers and directors are liable to us. No particular amount of damages has been alleged, and by the nature of the lawsuit no damages will be alleged against us. Our Board of Directors has appointed a Special Litigation Committee (“SLC”) composed solely of independent directors to review and manage any claims that we may have relating to the stock option grant practices and related issues investigated by the Special Committee. The scope of the SLC’s authority includes the claims asserted in the derivative actions. In federal court, Trident has moved to stay the case pending 12 Table of Contents the assessment by the SLC that was formed to consider nominal plaintiffs’ claims. In State court, Trident moved to stay the case in deference to the federal lawsuit, and the parties have agreed, with the Court’s approval, to take that motion off the Court’s calendar to await the assessment of the SLC. We cannot predict whether these actions are likely to result in any material recovery by or expense to, Trident. We expect to continue to incur legal fees in responding to these lawsuits, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. The expense of defending such litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve this and any additional lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to the risks of additional lawsuits in connection with our historical stock option grant practices and related issues, the resulting restatements, and the remedial measures we have taken. In addition to the possibilities that there may be additional governmental actions and shareholder lawsuits against us, we may be sued or taken to arbitration by former officers and employees in connection with their stock options, employment terminations and other matters. These lawsuits may be time consuming and expensive, and cause further distraction from the operation of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of our business could be adversely affected by the transition of key personnel as we rebuild our executive leadership team and make additional organizational changes. Our Chief Executive Officer joined us in October 2007 and has made several organizational changes including to our management team. Our Chief Financial Officer was appointed in July 2008 after having served as our Interim Chief Financial Officer since January 2008, replacing our former Chief Financial Officer who resigned in January 2008. In January 2008, we also appointed a Vice President, Human Resources. In February 2008, our former President resigned. In July 2008, our Vice President of Worldwide Sales resigned after only serving in this role since he was hired in March 2008. In August 2008, our Senior Vice President of Strategic Marketing was appointed to serve as our Chief Marketing Officer. In September 2008, we appointed a Senior Vice President, Engineering. We appointed two new members of our Board of Directors, one in January 2008 and the other in April 2008. Previously, in fiscal year 2007, we retained two individuals as a General Counsel and a Chief Accounting Officer. We may add additional senior executives in the future. It is important to our success that our Chief Executive Officer continues building an effective management team and global organization. Accordingly, a substantial number of our senior executives have been employed by us for less than one year, and it may take some time for each of the new members of our management team to become fully integrated into our business. Our failure to manage these transitions, or to find and retain experienced management personnel, could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our operating results. Intense competition exists in the market for digital media products. The digital media market in which we compete is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change and declining average unit selling prices. We expect competition to increase in the future from existing competitors and from other companies that may enter our existing or future markets with solutions which may be less costly or provide higher performance or more desirable features than our products. Competition typically occurs at the design stage, when customers evaluate alternative design approaches requiring integrated circuits. Because of short product life cycles, there are frequent design win competitions for next-generation systems. We believe the digital media market will remain competitive, and will require us to incur substantial research and development, technical support, sales and other expenditures to stay competitive in this market. In the digital media market, our principal competitors are captive solutions from large TV OEMs as well as merchant solutions from Broadcom Corporation, Media Tek Ltd., Micronas AG, Morning Star, NXP Semiconductors, ST Microelectronics, Toshiba and Zoran Corporation. Industry consolidation has been occurring recently as some of our competitors have acquired other competitors or divisions of companies that provide them with the opportunity to compete against us. Many of our current competitors and many potential competitors, including these merged entities, have significantly greater technical, manufacturing, financial and marketing resources. Some of them may 13 Table of Contents also have broader product lines and longer standing relationships with key customers and suppliers than we have, which makes competing more difficult. Therefore, we expect to devote significant resources to the DPTV/SVP and HiDTV market even though some of our competitors are substantially more experienced than we are in this market. The level and intensity of competition has increased over the past year and we expect competition to continue to increase in the future. Competitive pricing pressures have resulted in reductions in average selling prices of our existing products, and continued or increased competition could require us to further reduce the prices of our products, affect our ability to recover costs or result in reduced gross margins. If we are unable to timely and cost-effectively integrate more functionality onto single chip designs to help our customers reduce costs, we may lose market share, our revenues may decline and our gross margins may decrease significantly. Our success depends upon the digital media market and we must continue to develop new products and to enhance our existing products. The digital media industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, and changes in customer requirements. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate market needs and develop products that address those needs. As a result, our products could quickly become obsolete if we fail to predict market needs accurately or develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner. The long-term success in the digital media business will depend on the introduction of successive generations of products in time to meet the design cycles as well as the specifications of original equipment manufacturers of televisions. The digital media industry is characterized by an increasing level of integration and incorporation of greater numbers of features on a single chip, in order to permit enhanced systems at the same or lower cost. Our failure to predict market needs accurately or to timely develop new products or product enhancements, including integrated circuits with increasing levels of integration and new features, at competitive prices, will harm market acceptance and sales of our products. If the development or enhancement of these products or any other future products takes longer than we anticipate, or if we are unable to introduce these products to market, our sales could decrease. Even if we are able to develop and commercially introduce these new products, the new products may not achieve widespread market acceptance necessary to provide an adequate return on our investment. We depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of, or a significant reduction or cancellation in sales to, any key customer would significantly reduce our revenues. We are and will continue to be dependent on a limited number of distributors and customers for a substantial amount of our revenue. Sales to customers in Asia, primarily in Japan, South Korea, and Asia Pacific, accounted for 79% of our revenues for fiscal year 2008 compared to 93% for the prior fiscal year. For fiscal year 2008, approximately 76% of our revenues were derived from sales to three customers, Samsung, Midoriya (a distributor supplying Sony), and Philips, and each individually accounted for more than 10% of total revenues during this period. Of these customers, Samsung accounted for approximately 29%, Midoriya accounted for approximately 28%, and Philips accounted for approximately 19%. In Philips’ case, sales are principally made to three contract manufacturers that supply Philips. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer and will likely continue to fluctuate dramatically in the future. For example, the net revenues from Samsung during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 were reduced to less than 10% of our total net revenues for the same period. Accordingly, a reduction in purchases of our products by any of these customers could cause our revenues to decline during the period and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We may be unable to replace any such lost revenues by sales to any new customers or increased sales to existing customers. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: • substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; 14 Table of Contents • our customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; • our customers may develop their own solutions; or • our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. If we do not achieve additional design wins in the future, our ability to sell additional products could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on manufacturers of consumer televisions and other digital media products designing our products into their products. To achieve design wins with OEM customers and original design manufacturers, or ODMs, we must define and deliver cost-effective, innovative and high performance integrated circuits on a timely basis, before our competitors do so. In addition, some OEM customers have begun to utilize digital video processor components produced by their own internal affiliates, which decreases our opportunity to achieve design wins. Thus, even if we achieve a design win with an ODM, their OEM customer may subsequently elect to purchase an integrated digital media solution from the ODM that does not incorporate our products. Once a supplier’s products have been designed into a system, a manufacturer may be reluctant to change components due to costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and determining performance capabilities of the component. Customers can choose at any time to discontinue using our products in their designs or product development efforts. Accordingly, we may face narrow windows of opportunity to be selected as the supplier of component parts by significant new customers. It may be difficult for us to sell to a particular customer for a significant period of time once that customer selects a competitor’s product, and we may not be successful in obtaining broader acceptance of our products. If we are unable to achieve broader market acceptance of our products, we may be unable to maintain and grow our business and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. The average selling prices of our products may decline over relatively short periods. Average selling prices for our products may decline over relatively short time periods. On average, we have experienced average selling price declines over the course of the last twelve months of anywhere from approximately 2 to 30% per year depending on the product. This annual pace of price decline for products or technology is generally expected in the consumer electronics industry. It is also possible for the pace of average selling price declines to accelerate beyond these levels for certain products in a commoditizing market. When our average selling prices decline, our gross profits decline unless we are able to sell more products or reduce the cost to manufacture our products. We generally attempt to combat average selling price declines by designing new products for reduced costs, innovating to integrate additional functions or features and working with our manufacturing partners to reduce the costs of manufacturing existing products. We have in the past and may in the future experience declining sales prices, which could negatively impact our revenues, gross profits and financial results. We therefore need to sell our current products in increasing volumes to offset any decline in their average selling prices, and introduce new products, which we may not be able to do, or do on a timely basis. We may face risks resulting from the failure to allow former employees to exercise stock options. On September 21, 2007, the SLC extended, until March 31, 2008, the period during which five former employees, including our former CEO, and two former non-employee directors, could exercise certain of their vested options. After we became current in the filing of our periodic reports with the SEC and filed a registration statement on Form S-8 covering shares issuable under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, these five individuals requested to exercise certain of their vested options. However, the SLC initially decided that it was in the best interests of our stockholders not to allow these five individuals to exercise their vested options during the pendency of the SLC’s proceedings. During the three month period ended December 31, 2007, the SLC allowed one former employee to exercise all of his fully vested stock options and another former employee agreed to cancel all of such individual’s fully vested stock options. During the three month period ended March 31, 2008, the SLC entered into an agreement with our former CEO, allowing him to exercise all of his fully vested stock options and extended, until August 31, 2008, the period during which the two former non-employee directors could exercise their unexpired vested options. However, on May 29, 2008, the SLC permitted one of our former non-employee directors to exercise 15 Table of Contents his fully vested stock options without seeking the authorization of the SLC and entered into an agreement with the other former non-employee director on terms similar to the agreement entered into with our former CEO, allowing him to exercise all of his fully vested stock options without seeking the authorization from the SLC. Because Trident’s stock price during fiscal year 2008 was lower than the prices at which our former CEO and each of the two former directors had desired to exercise their options, as indicated in previous written notices to the SLC, we recorded a contingent liability totaling $4.3 million, which was included in “Accrued Expenses and Other” in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2008 and the related expenses were included in “Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses” in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. We may incur charges in the future related to claims that may be made by these individuals which may be material. We do not have long-term commitments from our customers, and plan purchases based upon our estimates of customer demand, which may require us to contract for the manufacture of our products based on inaccurate estimates. Our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our customers may cancel or defer purchases at any time. This requires us to forecast demand based upon assumptions that may not be correct. If our customers or we overestimate demand, we may create inventory that we may not be able to sell or use, resulting in excess inventory, which could become obsolete or negatively affect our operating results. Conversely, if our customers or we underestimate demand, or if sufficient manufacturing capacity is not available, we may lose revenue opportunities, damage customer relationships and we may not achieve expected revenue. Our dependence on sales to distributors increases the risks of managing our supply chain and may result in excess inventory or inventory shortages. Currently, the majority of our sales through distributors are made by companies that function as purchasing conduits for each of two large Japanese OEM customers. Generally, the distributors take certain inventory positions and resell to their respective OEM customers. We have a more traditional distributor relationship with our remaining distributors that involve the distributors taking inventory positions and reselling to multiple customers. In our distributor relationships, we do not recognize revenue until the distributors sell the product through to their end user customers. These distributor relationships reduce our ability to forecast sales and increases risks to our business. Since our distributors act as intermediaries between us and the end user customers, we must rely on our distributors to accurately report inventory levels and production forecasts. This requires us to manage a more complex supply chain and monitor the financial condition and credit worthiness of our distributors and the end user customers. Our failure to manage one or more of these risks could result in excess inventory or shortages that could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Product supply and demand in the semiconductor industry is subject to cyclical variations. The semiconductor industry is subject to cyclical variations in product supply and demand. Downturns in the industry often occur in connection with, or anticipation of, maturing product cycles for both semiconductor companies and their customers and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by abrupt fluctuations in product demand and production capacity and accelerated decline of average selling prices. The recent emergence of a number of negative economic factors, including heightened fears of a recession, could lead to such a downturn. We cannot predict whether we will achieve timely, cost-effective access to that capacity when needed, or what capacity patterns may emerge in the future. A downturn in the semiconductor industry could harm our sales and revenues if demand for our products drops, or cause our gross margins to suffer if average selling prices decline. The process of restating our financial statements, making the associated disclosures, and complying with SEC requirements are subject to uncertainty. The issues surrounding our historical stock option grant practices are complex. We did not pre-clear our filings with the SEC during August 2007 and September 2007, and if the SEC determined to review our filings, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to amend our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 16 Table of Contents June 30, 2006 and the restatements included therein. In addition to the cost and time to amend financial reports, such amendments may be adversely received by investors resulting in a decline in our common stock price. We have had fluctuations in quarterly results in the past and may continue to experience such fluctuations in the future. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors including: • our ability to develop, introduce, ship and support new products and product enhancements, especially our newer SoC products, and to manage product transitions; • new product introductions by our competitors; • delayed new product introductions; • uncertain demand in the digital media markets in which we have limited experience; • our ability to achieve required product cost reductions; • the mix of products sold and the mix of distribution channels through which they are sold; • fluctuations in demand for our products, including seasonality; • unexpected product returns or the cancellation or rescheduling of significant orders; • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; • unfavorable responses to new products; • adverse economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Asia; and • unexpected costs associated with our investigation of our historical stock option grant practices and related issues, and any related litigation or regulatory actions. These factors are often difficult or impossible to forecast or predict, and these or other factors could cause our revenue and expenses to fluctuate over interim periods, increase our operating expenses, or adversely affect our results of operations or business condition. We are vulnerable to undetected product problems. Although we establish and implement test specifications, impose quality standards upon our suppliers and perform separate application-based compatibility and system testing, our products may contain undetected defects, which may or may not be material, and which may or may not have a feasible solution. Although we have experienced such errors in the past, significant errors have generally been detected relatively early in a product’s life cycle and therefore the costs associated with such errors have been immaterial. We cannot ensure that such errors will not be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may materially adversely affect our business by causing us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and causing significant customer relations problems. Defects or other performance problems in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers or could damage market acceptance of our products. Our customers could seek damages from us for their losses as a result of problems with our products or order less of our products, which would harm our financial results. Our reliance upon one independent foundry could make it difficult to maintain product flow and affect our sales. If the demand for our products grows, we will need to increase our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions. Any disruptions in product flow could limit our ability to meet orders, impact our revenue and our ability to increase sales, adversely affect our competitive position and reputation and result in additional costs or cancellation of orders. 17 Table of Contents We do not own or operate fabrication facilities and do not manufacture our products internally. We currently rely principally upon one independent foundry to manufacture our products in wafer form and other contract manufacturers for assembly and testing of our products. Generally, we place orders by purchase order, and the foundry is not obligated to manufacture our products on a long-term fixed-price basis, so it is not obligated to supply us with products for any specific period of time, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Our requirements typically represent only a small portion of the total production capacity of our foundry and our contract manufacturers. Our foundry and contract manufacturers could re-allocate capacity to other customers, even during periods of high demand for our products. We have limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, potential errors in manufacturing and production costs. We could experience an interruption in our access to certain process technologies necessary for the manufacture of our products. From time to time, there are manufacturing capacity shortages in the semiconductor industry. If we encounter shortages and delays in obtaining components, our ability to meet customer orders would be materially adversely affected. In addition, during periods of increased demand, putting pressure on the foundry to meet orders, we may have reduced control over pricing and timely delivery of components, and if the foundry increases the cost of components or subassemblies, our margins will be adversely affected, and we may not have alternative sources of supply to manufacture such components. Constraints or delays in the supply of our products, whether because of capacity constraints, unexpected disruptions at the foundry or assembly or testing houses, delays in additional production at existing foundries or in obtaining additional production from existing or new foundries, shortages of raw materials, or other reasons, could result in the loss of customers and other material adverse effects on our operating results, including effects that may result should we be forced to purchase products from higher cost foundries or pay expediting charges to obtain additional supplies. In addition, to the extent we elect to use multiple sources for certain products, our customers may be required to qualify multiple sources, which could adversely affect their desire to design-in our products and reduce our revenues. If we have to qualify a new contract manufacturer or foundry for any of our products, we may experience delays that result in lost revenues and damaged customer relationships. We rely on a single supplier to manufacture our products in wafer form. The lead time required to establish a relationship with a new foundry is long, and it takes time to adapt a product’s design to a particular manufacturer’s processes. Accordingly, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for any specific product. This could cause significant delays in shipping products if we have to change our source of supply and manufacture quickly, which could damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our sales and financial results. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavourably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. While we believe our tax reserves adequately provide for any tax contingencies, the ultimate outcomes of any current or future tax audits are uncertain, and we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued employment of key personnel, some of whom have only worked together for a short period of time. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of the principal members of our technical sales, marketing and engineering teams, many of whom perform important management functions and would be difficult to replace. During the past year, we hired several members of our current executive management team. We have reorganized our sales, marketing and engineering teams and continue to make changes. We depend upon the continued services of key management personnel at our overseas subsidiaries, especially in China and Taiwan. Our officers and key employees are not bound by employment agreements for any specific term, and may 18 Table of Contents terminate their employment at any time. In order to continue to expand our product offerings both in the U.S. and abroad, we must hire and retain a number of research and development personnel. Hiring technical sales personnel in our industry is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our technologies. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Competition for highly skilled personnel continues to be increasingly intense, particularly in the areas where we principally operate, specifically in China, Taiwan and Northern California. If we are not successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs, our business may be harmed. Changes in our business and product strategy will affect our operations. Our principal design, development and marketing effort focuses primarily on our digital media products. These products are now our only product line and our success in the near term depends upon the growth of the market for these products and our success in this market. Our success in the longer term will also depend on our ability to develop and introduce other digital media products. We plan to continue developing the next generation DPTV and HDTV, as well as other advanced products for digital TV and digital STB for the digital media market in Japan, South Korea, Europe, and Asia Pacific. While we anticipate this market to generate an increasing percentage of our revenues, we have limited experience with digital video television. There can be no guarantee that our digital media products will be accepted by the market or increase our revenues or profitability. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. Factors such as new product announcements by us or our competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and unfavorable conditions in the digital media market, failure to obtain design wins, as well as the results of our investigation of our historical stock option grant practices and related issues, and any litigation or regulatory actions arising as a result, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. For example, following the announcement of our financial earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, the price of our common stock declined by more than 20%. These conditions, as well as factors that generally affect the market for stocks and stocks in high-technology companies in particular, could cause the price of our stock to fluctuate from time to time or to decline. We currently rely on certain international customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and are subject to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. As a result of our focus on digital media products, we expect to be primarily dependent on international sales and operations, particularly in Japan, South Korea, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Our revenues may continue to be highly concentrated in a small number of geographic regions in the future. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, which could adversely affect future results, including: • exchange rate variations, tariffs, import restrictions and other trade barriers; • potential adverse tax consequences; • challenges in effectively managing distributors or representatives to maximize sales; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • political and economic instability, civil unrest, war or terrorist activities that impact international commerce; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; and • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, such as delays by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission in imposing its pending requirement that all new televisions have a digital receiver by February 2009. Our international sales currently are U.S. dollar-denominated. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. We cannot be sure 19 Table of Contents that our international customers will continue to be willing to place orders in U.S. dollars. If they do not, our revenues and operating results would become subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which may be difficult. The digital media market is a highly competitive industry in which we, and most other participants, rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect proprietary rights. The competitive nature of our industry, rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards heighten the importance of protecting proprietary technology rights. Since the United States Patent and Trademark Office keeps patent applications confidential until a patent is issued, our pending patent applications may attempt to protect proprietary technology claimed in a third party patent application. Our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies as policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus make the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely in these countries. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents or other intellectual property. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology rights, others may be able to use our proprietary technology without having to compensate us, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our ability to compete effectively. We have in the past, and may in the future, file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation or resulting counterclaims, we could lose our proprietary rights and incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention. In addition, failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity and our ability to compete effectively. We have been involved in intellectual property infringement claims, and may be involved in others in the future, which can be costly. Our industry is very competitive and is characterized by frequent litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in our industry have already been issued and as the market further develops and additional intellectual property protection is obtained by participants in our industry, litigation is likely to become more frequent. From time to time, third parties have asserted and are likely in the future to assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies or rights that are important to our business. Historically we have been involved in such disputes. In addition, we have and may in the future enter into agreements to indemnify our customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of patents, trademarks or copyrights of third parties. Litigation or other disputes or negotiations arising from claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, whether with or without merit, has been and may in the future be, time-consuming, resulting in significant expenses and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We do not have insurance against our alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property of others. Any such claims that may be filed against us in the future, if resolved adversely to us, could cause us to stop sales of our products which incorporate the challenged intellectual property and could also result in product shipment delays or require us to redesign or modify our products or to enter into licensing agreements. These licensing agreements, if required, would increase our product costs and may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If there is a successful claim of infringement or we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on a timely and reasonable basis, our business could be harmed. If necessary licenses of third-party technology are not available to us or are very expensive, our products could become obsolete. From time to time, we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third party licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements, or if our licensor’s technology is no longer available to us because it is determined to infringe another third party’s 20 Table of Contents intellectual property rights, we may have to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business. We conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the State of California, Taiwan and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. This coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. A major earthquake or other disaster affecting our suppliers’ facilities and our administrative offices could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities and our administrative offices; these delays could be lengthy and result in large expenses. In addition, our administrative offices in the State of California may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. Any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. In addition, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any natural disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 