ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results Demand for many of our services substantially depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production industry. The level of offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activity has historically been volatile and that volatility is likely to continue. The level of activity is subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including: · prevailing oil and natural gas prices and expectations about future prices and price volatility · the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas offshore · worldwide demand for energy and other petroleum products as well as chemical products · availability and rate of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas · local and international political and economic conditions and policies including cabotage and local content laws · technological advances affecting energy production and consumption · weather conditions · environmental regulation · the ability of oil and natural gas companies to generate or otherwise obtain funds for capital A prolonged material downturn in oil and natural gas prices is likely to cause a substantial decline in expenditures for exploration, development and production activity. Lower levels of expenditure and activity would result in a decline in the demand and lower rates for our offshore energy support services and tanker services. Moreover, approximately 50% of our Offshore Marine Services and 73% of our Aviation Services are currently conducted in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and are therefore dependent on levels of activity in that region, which may differ from levels of activity in other regions of the world. We conduct international operations, which involve additional risks. We operate vessels and lease helicopters worldwide. Activity outside the U.S. involves additional risks, including the possibility of: · restrictive actions by foreign governments, including asset seizure · foreign taxation and changes in foreign tax laws · limitations on repatriation of earnings 24 · changes in currency exchange rates · local cabotage and local ownership laws and requirements · nationalization and expropriation · loss of contract rights · political instability, war and civil disturbances or other risks that may limit or disrupt markets Our ability to compete in the international offshore energy support market may be adversely affected by foreign government regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local competitors, or that require foreign persons to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Further, our foreign subsidiaries may face governmentally imposed restrictions on their ability to transfer funds to their parent company. Unstable political, military and economic conditions in foreign countries where a significant proportion of Offshore Marine Services’ operations are conducted could adversely impact our business. During 2005, approximately 50% of our Offshore Marine Services’ operating revenues principally resulted from Offshore Marine Services’ foreign operations. These operations are subject to risks, including potential vessel seizure, terrorist attacks, nationalization of assets, currency restrictions, import-export quotas and other forms of public and government regulation, all of which are beyond our control. Economic sanctions or an oil embargo, for example could have significant impact on activity in the oil and gas industry and correspondingly on us should Offshore Marine Services operate vessels in a country subject to any sanctions or embargo, or in the surrounding region to the extent any sanctions or embargo disrupt our operations in the region. Offshore Marine Services, Marine Transportation Services and Aviation Services rely on several customers for a significant share of their revenues, the loss of which could adversely affect Offshore Marine Services’, Marine Transportation Services’ and Aviation Services’ businesses and operating results. Offshore Marine Services’, Marine Transportation Services’ and Aviation Services’ customers are primarily major oil companies and large independent oil and gas exploration and production companies. The portion of Offshore Marine Services’, Marine Transportation Services’ or Aviation Services’ revenues attributable to any single customer may change over time, depending on the level of relevant activity by such customer, our ability to meet the customer’s needs and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Consolidation of our customer base could adversely affect demand for our equipment and reduce our revenues. Oil and natural gas companies, energy companies and drilling contractors have undergone substantial consolidation in the last few years. Additional consolidation is likely. Consolidation results in fewer companies to charter or contract for our equipment. Also, merger activity among both major and independent oil and natural gas companies affects exploration, development and production activity as the consolidated companies integrate operations to increase efficiency and reduce costs. Less promising exploration and development projects of a combined company may be dropped or delayed. Such activity may result in an exploration and development budget for a combined company that is lower than the total budget of both companies before consolidation, adversely affecting demand for our Offshore Marine Services’ vessels, Marine Transportation Services’ tankers and Aviation Services’ helicopters, thereby reducing our revenues. We may be unable to maintain or replace our vessels as they age. As of December 31, 2005, the average age of our Offshore Marine Services vessels, excluding its standby safety vessels, was approximately 15.5 years. The Company believes that after an offshore support vessel has been in service for approximately 20 years, the expense (which typically increases with age) necessary to satisfy required marine certification standards may not be economically justifiable. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its fleet by extending the economic life of existing vessels, or that its financial resources will be 25 sufficient to enable it to make expenditures necessary for these purposes or to acquire or build replacement vessels. An increase in the supply of offshore support vessels or tankers would likely have an adverse impact on the charter rates earned by our offshore support vessels and tankers. Expansion of the worldwide offshore support vessel fleet would increase competition in the markets where Offshore Marine Services operates. The refurbishment of disused or “mothballed” vessels, conversion of vessels from uses other than oil and gas exploration and production support and related activities or construction of new vessels could all add vessel capacity to current worldwide levels. A significant increase in vessel capacity would lower charter rates. Similarly, should our competitors in the domestic petroleum and chemical product tankers industry construct a significant number of new tankers or large capacity integrated or articulated tug and barges, demand for our tanker assets could be adversely affected. If we do not restrict the amount of foreign ownership of our Common Stock, we could be prohibited from operating our offshore support vessels, inland river vessels and barges and tankers in parts of the U.S. and could be prohibited from operating our helicopters, which would adversely impact our business and operating results. We are subject to the Shipping Acts, which govern, among other things, the ownership and operation of offshore support vessels, tankers and barges used to carry cargo between U.S. ports. The Acts require that vessels engaged in the “U.S. coastwise trade” be owned by U.S. citizens and built in the U.S. We are also subject to regulations pursuant to the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, and other statutes (“Aviation Acts”). Generally, our aircraft operating in the U.S. must be registered in the U.S. In order to register such aircraft under the Aviation Acts, we must be owned or controlled by U.S. citizens. Although our Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws contain provisions intended to assure compliance with these provisions of the Shipping Acts, and also comply with the Aviation Acts, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade and our helicopters in the U.S. during any period in which we did not comply with these regulations. Marine Transportation Services could lose Jones Act protection, which would result in additional competition. A substantial portion of Marine Transportation Services’ operations is conducted in the U.S. coastwise trade. Under the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, which is also referred to as the Jones Act, this trade is restricted to vessels built in the United States, owned and manned by U.S. citizens and registered under U.S. law. There have been attempts to repeal or amend the Jones Act, and these attempts are expected to continue in the future. Repeal of the Jones Act could result in additional competition from vessels built in lower-cost foreign shipyards and owned and manned by foreign nationals with promotional foreign tax incentives and with lower wages and benefits than U.S. citizens, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the company. Failure to maintain an acceptable safety record may have an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers. Our customers consider safety and reliability a primary concern in selecting a service provider. We must maintain a record of safety and reliability that is acceptable to our customers. Should this not be achieved, the ability to retain current customers and attract new customers may be adversely affected. The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended, provides the federal government with broad discretion in regulating the leasing of offshore resources for the production of oil and gas. Because offshore marine operations rely on offshore oil and gas exploration and production, the government’s exercise of authority under the provisions of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (“OCSLA”), to restrict the availability of offshore oil and gas leases could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Operational risks could disrupt Offshore Marine Services, Marine Transportation Services, Harbor and Offshore Towing Services and Aviation Services and expose us to liability. The operation of offshore support vessels, tankers, tugs, and helicopters is subject to various risks, including catastrophic disaster, adverse weather, mechanical failure and collision. Additional risks to vessels include sea conditions, capsizing, 26 grounding, oil and hazardous substance spills and navigation errors. These risks could endanger the safety of our personnel, equipment, cargo and other property, as well as the environment. If any of these events were to occur, we could be held liable for resulting damages. In addition, the affected vessels or helicopters could be removed from service and would not be available to generate revenues. Aviation Services may be subject to adverse weather conditions and seasonality. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues from Aviation Services is dependent on actual flight hours. Prolonged periods of adverse weather, storms and the effect of fewer hours of daylight adversely impact Aviation Services. Winter months generally have more days of adverse weather conditions than the other months of the year with poor visibility, high winds, heavy precipitation and fewer daylight hours all adversely affecting the operations of helicopters. June through November is tropical storm season in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico; during tropical storms, helicopters are unable to operate in the area of the storm. In addition, many of Aviation Services’ facilities are located along the U.S. Gulf of Mexico coast and tropical storms may cause damage to its property. Revenue from our tanker segment and towing activities could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for domestic refined petroleum products, crude oil or chemical products, or a change in existing methods of delivery. A reduction in domestic consumption of refined petroleum products, crude oil or chemical products may adversely affect revenue from our tanker segment and towing activities. Weather conditions also affect demand for our tanker services and towing services. For example, a mild winter may reduce demand for heating oil in our areas of operation. Moreover, alternative methods of delivery of refined petroleum, natural gas or crude oil may be developed and therefore reduce demand for our services. Finally, a reduction in domestic refining capacity would reduce demand for our services. Construction of additional refined petroleum product, natural gas or crude oil pipelines could have a material adverse effect on our tanker and towing revenues. Long-haul transportation of refined petroleum products, crude oil and natural gas is generally less costly by pipeline than by tanker. Existing pipeline systems are either insufficient to meet demand in, or do not reach all of, the markets served by our tankers. New pipeline segments are being planned and approved for the Florida market. The construction and operation of these pipelines could have an adverse effect on our tanker and towing businesses. We may have to phase-out some of our single-hull tankers from petroleum product transportation service in U.S. waters. OPA 90 establishes a phase-out schedule, depending upon vessel size and age, for non-double-hull vessels carrying crude oil and petroleum products in U.S. coastwise transportation. The phase-out dates for our non-double-hull tankers are as follows: Seabulk Magnachem—2007, Seabulk Power—2008, Seabulk Trader—2011, Seabulk Challenge—2011 and Seabulk America—2015. As a result of this requirement, unless these vessels are modified with double-hulls, which will require substantial capital expenditures, they will be prohibited from transporting crude oil and petroleum products in U.S. coastwise transportation after their phase-out dates. They would also be prohibited from transporting petroleum products in most foreign and international markets under a more accelerated International Maritime Organization international phase-out schedule, were we to attempt to enter those markets. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing worker safety and health and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the U.S. Coast Guard, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the National Transportation Safety Board and the U.S. Customs Service and to regulation by port states and class society organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping, as well as to international regulations from international treaties such as the Safety of Life at Sea (“SOLAS”) convention administered by port states and class societies. The U.S. Coast Guard, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and the National Transportation Safety Board set safety standards and are 27 authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. The U.S. Customs Service is authorized to inspect vessels at will. Our business and operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of oil and hazardous materials into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection and occupational safety and health. Compliance with such laws and regulations may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes, and the phase-out of certain product tankers. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Some environmental laws impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous materials and damage to natural resources, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, including charterers. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. We cannot be certain that existing laws, regulations or standards, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For more information, see “Governmental Regulation—Environmental Compliance” in Item 1. Spill response revenue is subject to significant volatility. Environmental Services’ response revenues are event driven and can vary greatly from quarter to quarter and year to year based on the number and magnitude of responses. As a result, Environmental Services’ profitability may also vary greatly from year to year. A relaxation of oil spill regulation or enforcement could reduce demand for Environmental Services’ services. Environmental Services is dependent upon the enforcement of regulations promulgated under OPA 90, international conventions and, to a lesser extent, upon local regulations. Less stringent oil spill regulations or less aggressive enforcement of these regulations would decrease demand for Environmental Services’ services. There can be no assurance that oil spill regulation will not be relaxed or enforcement of existing or future regulation will not become less stringent. If this happens, the demand for Environmental Services’ oil spill response services could be adversely impacted. A change in, or revocation of, NRC’s classification as an Oil Spill Removal Organization, or “OSRO” would result in a loss of business. NRC is classified by the U.S. Coast Guard as an OSRO. The U.S. Coast Guard classifies OSROs based on their overall ability to respond to various types and sizes of oil spills. U.S. Coast Guard classified OSROs have a competitive advantage over non-classified service providers because customers of a classified OSRO are exempt from regulations that would otherwise require them to list their oil spill response resources in filings with the U.S. Coast Guard. A loss of NRC’s classification or changes in the requirements for classification could eliminate or diminish NRC’s ability to provide customers with this exemption. If this happens, Environmental Services could lose customers. Environmental Services could incur liability in connection with providing spill response services. Although Environmental Services is generally exempt from liability under the federal Clean Water Act for its own actions and omissions in providing spill response services, this exemption might not apply if it were found to have been grossly negligent or to have engaged in willful misconduct, or if it were to have failed to provide these services consistent with applicable regulations and directives under the Clean Water Act. In addition, the exemption under the federal Clean Water Act would not protect Environmental Services against liability for personal injury or wrongful death, or against prosecution under other federal or state laws. While most of the U.S. states in which Environmental Services provides service have adopted similar exemptions, several states have not. If a court or other applicable authority were to determine that Environmental Services does not benefit from federal or state exemptions from liability in providing spill 28 response services, Environmental Services could be liable together with the local contractor and the responsible party for any resulting damages, including damages caused by others. Inland River Services could experience variation in freight rates. Freight transportation rates may fluctuate as the volume of cargo and availability of barges changes. Volume of freight transported on the inland waterways may vary as a result of various factors, such as global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic and international agricultural production and demand and foreign currency exchange rates. Barge participation in the industry will also vary year to year and is dependent on the number of barges built and retired from service. Extended periods of high barge availability and low cargo demand could adversely impact Inland River Services. Inland River Services’ results of operations can be adversely affected by the decline in U.S. grain exports. Inland River Services’ business is significantly affected by the volume of grain exports handled through U.S. Gulf of Mexico ports. Grain exports can vary due to a number of factors including the crop harvest yield levels in the U.S. and abroad. The shortage of available grain overseas can increase demand for U.S. grain. Conversely, an abundance of grain overseas can decrease demand for U.S. grain. A decline in exports could result in excess barge capacity, which would likely lower freight rates earned by Inland River Services. Inland River Services’ results of operations can be adversely affected by international economic and political factors. The actions of foreign governments could affect the import and export of the dry-bulk commodities typically transported by Inland River Services. Foreign trade agreements and each country’s adherence to the terms of such agreements can raise or lower demand for U.S. imports and exports of the dry-bulk commodities Inland River Services transports. National and international boycotts and embargoes of other countries’ or U.S. imports and/or exports together with the raising or lowering of tariff rates will affect the demand for transportation of the cargoes Inland River Services transports. These actions or developments could have an adverse impact Inland River Services. Inland River Services’ results of operations are affected by seasonal activity. Inland River Services’ business is seasonal, and its quarterly revenues and profits have historically been lower during the first and second quarters of the year (January through June) and higher during the third and fourth quarters (July through December) during the grain harvest. Inland River Services’ results of operations are affected by adverse weather and river conditions. Weather patterns can affect river levels and cause ice conditions during winter months, both of which can hamper barge navigation. Locks on river systems may be closed for maintenance or other causes, which may delay barge movements. These conditions could adversely impact Inland River Services. Inland River Services’ results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by fuel price fluctuations. For the most part, Inland River Services purchases towboat and fleeting services from third party vendors. It is indirectly exposed to increases in fuel prices, as vendors will adjust the price of the services when fuel prices escalate. If this happens, Inland River Services results of operation may be adversely affected. We may incur significant costs, liabilities and penalties in complying with government regulations. Government regulation, such as international conventions, federal, state and local laws and regulations in jurisdictions where we operate, have a significant impact on our business. These regulations relate to worker health and safety, the manning, construction and operation of vessels, oil spills and other aspects of our business. Risks of incurring substantial compliance costs and liabilities and penalties for non-compliance, particularly with respect to environmental laws and regulations, are inherent in our business. We cannot predict whether it will incur such costs or penalties in the future. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect the Company from the liabilities that could arise in our businesses. We maintain insurance coverage against the risks related to our businesses. There can be no 29 assurance, however, that existing insurance coverage can be renewed at commercially reasonable rates or that available coverage will be adequate to cover future claims. If a loss occurs that is partially or completely uninsured, we could be exposed to substantial liability. Our global operations are subject to currency exchange risks. In some of our foreign businesses, we collect revenues and pay expenses in local currency. If the value of foreign currencies (in particular the value of the Pound Sterling, the currency in the United Kingdom, where most of our currency exchange risk arises) decline against the U.S. dollar and we do not or are not able to minimize the effects of such fluctuations through currency hedging arrangements, our operating results may be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will not incur losses in the future as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on us. Attracting and retaining skilled personnel across all of our business segments is an important factor in our future success. The market for the personnel we employ is very competitive and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in the future. Our continuing compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate effectively the internal controls and procedures of Seabulk International, Inc. (“Seabulk”) with our own. The Seabulk Merger has significantly increased the size of our operations. In connection with our integration of Seabulk’s operations, we will be required in 2006 to assess and make any necessary adjustments to Seabulk’s internal controls and procedures in order to maintain the overall effectiveness of our internal controls and procedures, to ensure that we continue to deliver accurate and timely financial information and to ensure ongoing compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, we have not yet completed our evaluation of Seabulk’s internal controls. Our failure to accomplish this on a timely basis or at all could compromise our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the timeliness and accuracy of our financial reporting, which could reduce investor confidence in our publicly reported consolidated financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 