ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results The Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flow can be adversely affected by numerous risks. Carefully consider the risks described below, which represent some of the more critical risk factors that affect the Company, as well as the other information that has been provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the exclusive risks faced by the Company. Additional risks not presently known may also impair the Company's business operations. Difficult market conditions can materially adversely affect the Company's business in many ways. The success of the Company's business is both directly and indirectly dependent upon conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world that are outside its control and difficult to predict. Factors such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material negative impact on the Company's business and investments, which in turn would reduce its revenues and profitability. Demand for many of the Company's services substantially depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production industry. The level of offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activity has historically been volatile and that volatility is likely to continue. The level of activity is subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in a variety of factors that are beyond the Company's control, including: •prevailing oil and natural gas prices and expectations about future prices and price volatility •the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas offshore •worldwide demand for energy and other petroleum products as well as chemical products •availability and rate of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas •local and international political and economic conditions and policies including cabotage and local content laws •technological advances affecting energy production and consumption •weather conditions •environmental regulation •the ability of oil and natural gas companies to generate or otherwise obtain funds for capital A prolonged material downturn in oil and natural gas prices is likely to cause a substantial decline in expenditures for exploration, development and production activity. Lower levels of expenditure and activity would result in a decline in the demand and lower rates for the Company's offshore energy support services and tanker services. Moreover, approximately 48% of Offshore Marine Services and 58% of Aviation Services are currently conducted in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and are therefore dependent on levels of activity in that region, which may differ from levels of activity in other regions of the world. Risks from the Company's international operations. The Company operates vessels, leases helicopters and transacts other business worldwide. Its ability to compete in the international offshore energy support market may be adversely affected by foreign government regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local competitors, or that require foreign persons to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Further, the Company's foreign subsidiaries may face governmentally imposed restrictions on their ability to transfer funds to their parent company. 23 Activity outside the U.S. involves additional risks, including the possibility of: •U.S. embargoes, restrictive actions by foreign governments, including asset seizure •foreign taxation and changes in foreign tax laws •limitations on the repatriation of earnings •local cabotage and local ownership laws and requirements •nationalization and expropriation •loss of contract rights •political instability, war and civil disturbances or other risks that may limit or disrupt markets •changes in currency exchange rates Unstable political, military and economic conditions in foreign countries where a significant proportion of Offshore Marine Services' operations are conducted could adversely impact the Company's business. During 2007, approximately 52% of Offshore Marine Services' operating revenues resulted from Offshore Marine Services' foreign operations. These operations are subject to risks, including potential vessel seizure, terrorist attacks, piracy, kidnapping, nationalization of assets, currency restrictions, import or export quotas and other forms of public and government regulation, all of which are beyond the Company's control. Economic sanctions or an oil embargo, for example, could have significant impact on activity in the oil and gas industry and, correspondingly, on the Company should Offshore Marine Services operate vessels in a country subject to any sanctions or embargo, or in the surrounding region to the extent any sanctions or embargo disrupt its operations. Offshore Marine Services, Marine Transportation Services and Aviation Services rely on several customers for a significant share of their revenues, the loss of any of which could adversely affect each of their businesses and operating results. Offshore Marine Services', Marine Transportation Services' and Aviation Services' customers are primarily major oil companies and large independent oil and gas exploration and production companies. The portion of Offshore Marine Services', Marine Transportation Services' or Aviation Services' revenues attributable to any single customer may change over time, depending on the level of relevant activity by any such customer, their ability to meet the customer's needs and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Consolidation of the Company's customer base could adversely affect demand for its equipment and reduce its revenues. Oil and natural gas companies, energy companies and drilling contractors have recently undergone substantial consolidation and additional consolidation is possible. Consolidation results in fewer companies to charter or contract for the Company's equipment. Also, merger activity among both major and independent oil and natural gas companies affects exploration, development and production activity as the consolidated companies integrate operations to increase efficiency and reduce costs. Less promising exploration and development projects of a combined company may be dropped or delayed. Such activity may result in an exploration and development budget for a combined company that is lower than the total budget of both companies before consolidation, which would adversely affect demand for the Company's Offshore Marine Services' vessels, Marine Transportation Services' tankers and Aviation Services' helicopters, thereby reducing the Company's revenues. The Company may be unable to maintain or replace its vessels as they age. As of December 31, 2007, the average age of the Company's Offshore Marine Services vessels, excluding its standby safety vessels, was approximately 12.8 years. The Company believes that after an offshore support vessel has been in service for approximately 20 years, the expense (which typically increases with age) necessary to satisfy required marine certification standards may not be economically justifiable. The Company may be unable to carry out drydockings of its vessels or may be limited by insufficient shipyard capacity, which could adversely 24 affect its ability to maintain its vessels. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its fleet by extending the economic life of existing vessels, or that its financial resources will be sufficient to enable it to make expenditures necessary for these purposes or to acquire or build replacement vessels. An increase in the supply of offshore support vessels or tankers could have an adverse impact on the charter rates earned by the Company's offshore support vessels and tankers. Expansion of the supply of the worldwide offshore support vessel fleet would increase competition in the markets where Offshore Marine Services operates. The refurbishment of disused or "mothballed" vessels, conversion of vessels from uses other than oil and gas exploration and production support and related activities or construction of new vessels could all add vessel capacity to current worldwide levels. A significant increase in vessel capacity could lower charter rates and result in lower operating revenues. Similarly, should competitors in the domestic petroleum and chemical product tankers industry construct a significant number of new tankers or large capacity integrated or articulated tug and barges, demand for tanker assets could be adversely affected. If the Company does not restrict the amount of foreign ownership of its Common Stock, it could be prohibited from operating offshore support vessels, inland river vessels and barges and tankers in parts of the U.S. and could be prohibited from operating helicopters, which would adversely impact its business and operating results. The Company is subject to the Shipping Acts, which govern, among other things, the ownership and operation of offshore support vessels, tankers and barges used to carry cargo between U.S. ports. The Acts require that vessels engaged in the "U.S. coastwise trade" be owned by U.S. citizens and built in the U.S. The Company is also subject to regulations pursuant to the Federal Aviation Act and other statutes ("Aviation Acts"). Generally, aircraft operating in the U.S. must be registered in the U.S. In order to register such aircraft under the Aviation Acts, the Company must be owned or controlled by U.S. citizens. Although the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws contain provisions intended to assure compliance with these provisions of the Shipping Acts, and also comply with the Aviation Acts, the Company would be prohibited from operating vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade and helicopters in the U.S. during any period in which the Company did not comply with these regulations. Repeal, Amendment, Suspension or Failure to Enforce the Jones Act would result in additional competition for Offshore Marine Services, Marine Transportation Services and Inland River Services. A substantial portion of Offshore Marine Services', Marine Transportation Services' and Inland River Services' operations are conducted in the U.S. coastwise trade. Under the Jones Act, this trade is restricted to vessels built in the United States, owned and manned by U.S. citizens and registered under U.S. law. There have been attempts to repeal or amend the Jones Act, and these attempts are expected to continue in the future. Repeal of the Jones Act could result in additional competition from vessels built in lower-cost foreign shipyards and owned and manned by foreign nationals with promotional foreign tax incentives and with lower wages and benefits than U.S. citizens, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended, provides the federal government with broad discretion in regulating the leasing of offshore resources for the production of oil and gas. Because Offshore Marine Services' operations rely on offshore oil and gas exploration and production, the government's exercise of authority under the provisions of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to restrict the availability of offshore oil and gas leases could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain an acceptable safety record may have an adverse impact on the Company's ability to retain customers. The Company's customers consider safety and reliability a primary concern in selecting a service provider. The Company must maintain a record of safety and reliability that is acceptable to its customers. Should this not be achieved, the ability to retain current customers and attract new customers may be adversely affected. 25 Operational risks could disrupt operations and expose the Company to liability. The operation of offshore support vessels, tankers, tugs, and helicopters is subject to various risks, including catastrophic disaster, adverse weather, mechanical failure and collision. Additional risks to vessels include adverse sea conditions, capsizing, grounding, oil and hazardous substance spills and navigation errors. These risks could endanger the safety of the Company's personnel, equipment, cargo and other property, as well as the environment. If any of these events were to occur, the Company could be held liable for resulting damages. In addition, the affected vessels or helicopters could be removed from service and would not be available to generate revenues. Revenues from Aviation Services are subject to adverse weather conditions and seasonality. A significant portion of the Company's revenues from Aviation Services is dependent on actual flight hours. Prolonged periods of adverse weather, storms and the effect of fewer hours of daylight adversely impact Aviation Services. Winter months generally have more days of adverse weather conditions than the other months of the year with poor visibility, high winds, heavy precipitation and fewer daylight hours, all of which adversely affect helicopter operations. June through November is tropical storm season in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico; during tropical storms, helicopters are unable to operate in the area of the storm. In addition, many of Aviation Services' facilities are located along the U.S. Gulf of Mexico coast, and tropical storms may cause damage to its property. Consolidation in the aircraft parts industry could affect the service and operation of Aviation Services' helicopters. A reduction in the number of approved parts suppliers or a consolidation of the spare parts redistribution market could interrupt or delay the supply of aircraft components, adversely affect Aviation Services' ability to meet service commitments to customers and could cause Aviation Services to lose opportunities with existing and future customers. Aviation Services might not be able to qualify or identify alternative suppliers in a timely fashion, or at all. Consolidations involving suppliers could further reduce the number of alternatives for Aviation Services and affect the cost of components. An increase in the cost of components could make Aviation Services less competitive and result in lower margins. Revenues from Marine Transportation Services could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for domestic refined petroleum products, crude oil or chemical products, or a change in existing methods of delivery. A reduction in domestic consumption of refined petroleum products, crude oil or chemical products may adversely affect revenues from Marine Transportation Services. Moreover, alternative methods of delivery of refined petroleum, natural gas or crude oil may be developed and therefore reduce demand for the Company's services. Finally, a reduction in domestic refining capacity would reduce demand for the Company's services. Construction of additional refined petroleum product, natural gas or crude oil pipelines could have a material adverse effect on Marine Transportation Services' revenues. Long-haul transportation of refined petroleum products, crude oil and natural gas is generally less costly by pipeline than by tanker. Existing pipeline systems are either insufficient to meet demand in, or do not reach all of, the markets served by Marine Transportation Services' tankers. New pipeline segments are being planned and approved for the Florida market. The construction and operation of these pipelines could have an adverse effect on Marine Transportation Services' business. The Company may have to phase-out its double-bottom tanker from petroleum product transportation service in U.S. waters. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 establishes a phase-out schedule, depending upon vessel size and age, for non-double-hull vessels carrying crude oil and petroleum products in U.S. coastwise transportation. The phase-out date for the Company's non-double-hull tanker, the Seabulk America, is 2015 and unless this vessel is modified with a double-hull, which will require substantial capital expenditure, it will be prohibited from transporting crude oil and petroleum products in U.S. coastwise transportation after this date. It would also be prohibited from transporting petroleum products in most foreign and international markets under a phase-out schedule established by the International Maritime Organization. 26 The Company is subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing worker safety and health and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect the Company's operations. Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the United States Coast Guard ("USCG"), Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA"), the National Transportation Safety Board ("NTSB") and the U.S. Customs Service and to regulation by port states and class society organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping, as well as to international regulations from international treaties such as the Safety of Life at Sea convention administered by port states and class societies. The USCG, the OSHA and the NTSB set safety standards and are authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. The U.S. Customs Service is authorized to inspect vessels at will. The Company's business and operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of oil and hazardous materials into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection and occupational safety and health. Compliance with such laws and regulations may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes, and the phase-out of certain product tankers. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of the Company's operations. Some environmental laws impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous materials and damage to natural resources, which could subject the Company to liability without regard to whether it was negligent or at fault. These laws and regulations may expose the Company to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, including charterers. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase the Company's costs. The Company cannot be certain that existing laws, regulations or standards, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. For more information, see Item 1. "Governmental Regulation—Environmental Compliance." Spill response revenue is subject to significant volatility. Environmental Services' response revenues are event driven and can vary greatly from quarter to quarter and year to year based on the number and magnitude of responses. As a result, Environmental Services' profitability may also vary greatly from quarter to quarter and year to year. A relaxation of oil spill regulation or enforcement could reduce demand for Environmental Services' oil spill response services. Environmental Services is dependent upon the enforcement of regulations promulgated under OPA 90, international conventions and, to a lesser extent, upon local regulations. Less stringent oil spill regulations or less aggressive enforcement of these regulations would decrease demand for Environmental Services' oil spill response services. There can be no assurance that oil spill regulation will not be relaxed or enforcement of existing or future regulation will not become less stringent. If this happens, the demand for Environmental Services' oil spill response services could be adversely impacted. A change in, or revocation of, National Response Corporation's classification as an Oil Spill Removal Organization would result in a loss of business. The National Response Corporation ("NRC") is classified by the USCG as an Oil Spill Removal Organization ("OSRO"). The USCG classifies OSROs based on their overall ability to respond to various types and sizes of oil spills. USCG classified OSROs have a competitive advantage over non-classified service providers because customers of a classified OSRO are exempt from regulations that would otherwise require them to list their oil spill response resources in filings with the USCG. A loss of NRC's classification or changes in the requirements for classification could eliminate or diminish NRC's ability to provide customers with this exemption. If this happens, Environmental Services could lose customers. Environmental Services could incur liability in connection with providing spill response services. Although Environmental Services generally is exempt from liability under the Clean Water Act ("CWA") for its own 27 actions and omissions in providing spill response services, this exemption might not apply if it were found to have been grossly negligent or to have engaged in willful misconduct, or if it were to have failed to provide these services consistent with applicable regulations and directives under the CWA. In addition, the exemption under the federal CWA would not protect Environmental Services against liability for personal injury or wrongful death, or against prosecution under other federal or state laws. While most of the U.S. states in which Environmental Services provides service have adopted similar exemptions, several states have not. If a court or other applicable authority were to determine that Environmental Services does not benefit from federal or state exemptions from liability in providing spill response services, Environmental Services could be liable together with the local contractor and the responsible party for any resulting damages, including damages caused by others. Inland River Services could experience variation in freight rates. Freight transportation rates may fluctuate as the volume of cargo and availability of barges changes. Volume of freight transported on the inland waterways may vary as a result of various factors, such as global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic and international agricultural production and demand and foreign currency exchange rates. Barge participation in the industry can also vary year to year and is dependent on the number of barges built and retired from service. Extended periods of high barge availability and low cargo demand could adversely impact Inland River Services. Inland River Services' results of operations could be adversely affected by the decline in U.S. grain exports. Inland River Services' business is significantly affected by the volume of grain exports handled through U.S. Gulf of Mexico ports. Grain exports can vary due to a number of factors including the crop harvest yield levels in the U.S. and abroad, and the demand for grain in the U.S. The shortage of available grain overseas can increase demand for U.S. grain. Conversely, an abundance of grain overseas can decrease demand for U.S. grain. A decline in exports could result in excess barge capacity, which would likely lower freight rates earned by Inland River Services. Inland River Services' results of operations could be adversely affected by international economic and political factors. The actions of foreign governments could affect the import and export of the dry-bulk commodities typically transported by Inland River Services. Foreign trade agreements and each country's adherence to the terms of such agreements can raise or lower demand for U.S. imports and exports of the dry-bulk commodities Inland River Services transports. National and international boycotts and embargoes of other countries' or U.S. imports or exports together with the raising or lowering of tariff rates will affect the demand for transportation of the cargos Inland River Services transports. These actions or developments could have an adverse impact on Inland River Services. Inland River Services' results of operations are affected by seasonal activity. Inland River Services' business is seasonal, and its quarterly revenues and profits have historically been lower during the first and second quarters of the year and higher during the third and fourth quarters during the grain harvest. Inland River Services' results of operations are affected by adverse weather and river conditions. Weather patterns can affect river levels and cause ice conditions during winter months, which can hamper barge navigation. Locks on river systems may be closed for maintenance or other causes, which may delay barge movements. These conditions could adversely impact Inland River Services. Inland River Services' results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by fuel price fluctuations. For the most part, Inland River Services purchases towboat and fleeting services from third party vendors. It is indirectly exposed to increases in fuel prices, as vendors will adjust the price of the services when fuel prices escalate. If this happens, Inland River Services results of operation may be adversely affected. The Company's insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect it from the liabilities that could arise in its businesses. The Company maintains insurance coverage against the risks related to its businesses. There can be no assurance, however, that existing insurance coverage can be renewed at commercially reasonable 28 rates or that available coverage will be adequate to cover future claims. If a loss occurs that is partially or completely uninsured, the Company could be exposed to substantial liability. The Company's global operations are subject to certain foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income and equity risks. The Company is exposed to certain foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity, and commodity price risks. A portion of these risks is hedged, but fluctuations could impact the Company's financial position. Volatility in international currency exchange rates may have a significant impact on the Company's operating results. The Company has, and anticipates that it will continue to receive, contracts denominated in foreign currencies. It is often not practicable for the Company to effectively hedge the entire risk of significant changes in currency rates during the contract period. The Company's operating results have been negatively impacted for certain periods and positively impacted for other periods and may continue to be affected to a material extent by the impact of currency fluctuations. Operating results may also be affected by the cost of hedging activities that the Company undertakes. The Company holds a large proportion of its net assets in cash equivalents and short-term investments, including a variety of public and private debt and equity instruments. Such investments subject the Company to the risks generally inherent in the capital markets. Given the relatively high proportion of the Company's liquid assets relative to its overall size, the results of its operations may be materially affected by the results of the Company's capital management and investment activities and the risks associated with those activities. Volatility in the public equity markets may cause the Company to experience investment losses. In addition, changes in interest rates may have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. The Company's inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on its business. Attracting and retaining skilled personnel across all of the Company's business segments is an important factor in its future success. The market for the personnel employed is highly competitive and the Company cannot be certain that it will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in the future. The failure to successfully complete construction or conversion of the Company's vessels, repairs, maintenance or routine drydockings on schedule and on budget could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company has a number of vessels under construction and may plan to construct other vessels in response to current and future market conditions. The Company also routinely engages shipyards to drydock vessels for regulatory compliance and to provide repair and maintenance. Construction projects and drydockings are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns, resulting from shortages of equipment, lack of shipyard availability, unforeseen engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor. A significant delay in either construction or drydockings could have a material adverse effect on contract commitments and revenues with respect to vessels under construction, conversion or for other drydockings. Significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction, conversion or retrofit could also adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The demand for vessels currently under construction or conversion may diminish from anticipated levels, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues and profitability in response to a failure to obtain contracts on favorable terms or at all. A Violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may adversely affect the Company's business and operations. In order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, the Company seeks to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. As a U.S. corporation, the Company is subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. The Company has adopted stringent procedures to enforce compliance with the FCPA, but it may be held liable for actions taken by its strategic or local partners even though these partners may not be subject to the FCPA. Any determination that the Company has violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. 29 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 