ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results The Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flow may be adversely affected by numerous risks. Carefully consider the risks described below, which represent some of the more critical risk factors that affect the Company, as well as the other information that has been provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below include all known material risks faced by the Company. Additional risks not presently known may also impair the Company’s business operations. Difficult economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The success of the Company’s business is both directly and indirectly dependent upon conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world that are outside its control and difficult to predict. Continued uncertainty about global economic conditions may lead businesses to postpone spending in response to tighter credit and reductions in income or asset values, which may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. These factors may also adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and financial condition (including the failure of lenders participating in the Company’s credit facility to fulfill their commitments and obligations), and the liquidity and financial condition of the Company’s customers. Tight credit conditions could limit the Company’s ability to secure additional financing, if required, due to difficulties accessing the capital markets. Factors such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material negative impact on the Company’s business and investments, which could reduce its revenues and profitability. Although the Company has some ongoing exposure to credit risks on its accounts receivable balances, these risks are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company has procedures that are designed to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its receivables; however, there can be no assurance that such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. Unstable economic conditions may also increase the volatility of the Company’s stock price. 33 Table of Contents There are risks associated with the Company’s debt structure. The Company’s ability to meet its debt service obligations is dependent upon its future operating results, which are subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. The Company’s debt levels and the terms of its indebtedness may limit its liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and pursuing other business opportunities. In addition, the Company’s overall debt level and/or market conditions could lead the credit rating agencies to lower the Company’s corporate credit ratings, which could limit its ability to issue additional debt in amounts and/or on terms that it considers reasonable. Demand for many of the Company’s services is impacted by the level of activity in the offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production industry. The level of offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activity has historically been volatile and that volatility is likely to continue. The level of activity is subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in a variety of factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including: • general economic conditions; • prevailing oil and natural gas prices and expectations about future prices and price volatility; • assessments of offshore drilling prospects compared with land-based opportunities; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas offshore; • worldwide demand for energy, other petroleum products and chemical products; • availability and rate of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; • federal, state, local and international political and economic conditions, and policies including cabotage and local content laws; • technological advances affecting exploration, development, energy production and consumption; • weather conditions; • environmental regulation; • regulation of drilling activities and the availability of drilling permits and concessions; and • the ability of oil and natural gas companies to generate or otherwise obtain funds for capital projects. A prolonged material downturn in oil and natural gas prices is likely to cause a substantial decline in expenditures for exploration, development and production activity, which would result in a decline in demand and lower rates for the Company’s offshore energy support services and tanker services. Moreover, for the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 31% of Offshore Marine Services’ and 46% of Aviation Services’ operating revenues were earned in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and are therefore dependent on levels of activity in that region, which may differ from levels of activity in other regions of the world. Failure to maintain an acceptable safety record may have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to retain customers. The Company’s customers consider safety and reliability a primary concern in selecting a service provider. The Company must maintain a record of safety and reliability that is acceptable to its customers. Should this not be achieved, the ability to retain current customers and attract new customers may be adversely affected. Adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company is subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of its business. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to the Company’s operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. The Company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against it that could materially adversely affect a portion of its business operations or materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial position and its results of operations should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters. 34 Table of Contents The Company may undertake one or more significant corporate transactions that may not achieve their intended results, may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and its results of operations, and may result in additional risks to its businesses. The Company continuously evaluates the acquisition of operating businesses and assets and may in the future undertake significant transactions. Any such transaction could be material to the Company’s business and could take any number of forms, including mergers, joint ventures, investments in new lines of business and the purchase of equity interests or assets. The form of consideration for such transactions may include, among other things, cash, common stock or equity interests in the Company’s subsidiaries. The Company also evaluates the disposition of its operating businesses and assets, in whole or in part, which could take the form of asset sales, mergers or sales of equity interests in its subsidiaries (privately or through a public offering), or the spin-off of equity interests of the Company’s subsidiaries to its stockholders. These types of significant transactions may present significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed, potential loss of significant revenue and income streams, unexpected expenses, inadequate return of capital, potential acceleration of taxes currently deferred, regulatory or compliance issues, the triggering of certain covenants in the Company’s debt instruments (including accelerated repayment) and other unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence. As a result of the risks inherent in such transactions, the Company cannot guaranty that any such transaction will ultimately result in the realization of the anticipated benefits of the transaction or that significant transactions will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or its results of operations. If the Company were to complete such an acquisition, disposition, investment or other strategic transaction, it may require additional debt or equity financing that could result in a significant increase in its amount of debt or the number of outstanding shares of its Common Stock. Investment in new business strategies and initiatives present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and in the future may again invest, in new business plans or acquisitions, some of which may not be directly linked to existing business lines or activities. These activities may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the plans or acquisitions, inadequate return of capital, and unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence. Investments in these positions also may involve securities that are not very liquid. As a result of the risks inherent in new ventures, there can be no assurance that any such venture will be successful, or that new ventures will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. The Company engages in hedging activities which expose it to risks. The Company for corporate purposes and also as part of its energy trading activities, may use futures and swaps to hedge risks, such as escalation in fuel costs, agricultural materials, movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The Company may also purchase inventory in larger than usual levels to lock in costs when it believes there may be large increases in the price of raw materials or other materials used in its businesses. Such purchases expose the Company to risks of meeting margin calls and drawing on its capital, counterparty risk due to failure of an exchange or institution with which it has done a swap, incurring higher costs than competitors or similar businesses that do not engage in such strategies, and losses on its investment portfolio. Such strategies can also cause earnings to be volatile. The Company’s operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico have been adversely impacted by the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig accident and resulting oil spill. On April 22, 2010, the Deepwater Horizon, a semi-submersible deepwater drilling rig operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, sank after an apparent blowout and fire resulting in a significant flow of hydrocarbons from the BP Macondo well (the “Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident”). The Company’s Offshore Marine Services and Aviation Services segments have extensive operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which, along with those of certain of its customers, may be adversely impacted by, among other factors: • the previously imposed drilling moratorium by the U.S. Department of the Interior that directed lessees and operators to cease drilling all new deepwater wells on federal leases in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the additional safety and certification requirements for drilling activities imposed for the approval of 35 Table of Contents development and production activities and the delayed approval of applications to drill in both deep and shallow-water areas; • the suspension, stoppage or termination by customers of existing contracts and the demand by customers for new or renewed contracts in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and other affected regions; • unplanned customer suspensions, cancellations, rate reductions or non-renewals of commitments to charter vessels and aviation equipment or failures to finalize commitments to charter vessels and aviation equipment; • new or additional government regulations or laws concerning drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and other regions; and • the cost or availability of relevant insurance coverage. Any one or a combination of these factors could reduce revenues, increase operating costs and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. The Company could incur liability in connection with providing spill response services. The Company may incur increased legal fees and costs in connection with providing spill and emergency response services, including the Company’s involvement in response to the Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident. Several of the Company’s business segments are currently defendants in litigation arising from the Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident and the Company expects it may be named in additional litigation regarding its response services. Although companies are generally exempt in the United States from liability under the CWA for their own actions and omissions in providing spill response services, this exemption might not apply if a company were found to have been grossly negligent or to have engaged in willful misconduct, or if it were to have failed to provide these services consistent with the National Contingency Plan or as otherwise directed under the CWA. In addition, the exemption under the federal CWA would not protect a company against liability for personal injury or wrongful death claims, or against prosecution under other federal or state laws. All of the coastal states of the United States in which the Company provides services have adopted similar exemptions, however, several inland states have not. If a court or other applicable authority were to determine that the Company does not benefit from federal or state exemptions from liability in providing emergency response services, or if the other defenses asserted by the Company and its business segments are rejected, the Company could be liable together with the local contractor and the responsible party for any resulting damages, including damages caused by others, subject to the indemnification provisions and other liability terms and conditions negotiated with its domestic clients. In the international market, the Company does not benefit from the spill response liability protection provided by the CWA and, therefore, is subject to the liability terms and conditions negotiated with its international clients, in addition to any other defenses available to the Company and its business segments. In connection with claims relating to clean-up operations following the Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident, the responsible party acknowledged and agreed to indemnify and defend one of the Company’s business segments pursuant and subject to certain contractual agreements. If Congress repeals the $75.0 million cap for non-reclamation liabilities under OPA 90 or otherwise scales back the protections afforded to contractors thereunder, there may be increased exposure for remediation work and the cost for securing insurance for such work may become prohibitively expensive. Without affordable insurance and appropriate legislative regulation limiting liability, drilling, exploration, remediation and further investment in oil and gas exploration in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may be discouraged and thus reduce the demand for the Company’s services. Negative publicity may adversely impact the Company. Media coverage and public statements that insinuate improper actions by the Company, regardless of their factual accuracy or truthfulness, may result in negative publicity, litigation or governmental investigations by regulators. Addressing negative publicity and any resulting litigation or investigations may distract management, increase costs and divert resources. Negative publicity may have an adverse impact on the Company’s reputation and the morale of its employees, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Increased domestic and international laws and regulations may adversely impact the Company. Changes in laws or regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities, including the previously imposed drilling moratorium issued by the U.S. Department of the Interior directing lessees and operators to cease drilling all new deepwater wells on federal leases in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, may increase the cost or availability of insurance coverage and may influence decisions by customers or other industry participants that could reduce the demand for the Company’s services, which would have a negative impact on the Company’s Offshore Marine Services and Aviation Services segments. Risks from the Company’s international operations. The Company operates vessels, leases helicopters, provides environmental services and transacts other business worldwide. Its ability to compete in the international offshore energy support market and environmental services market may be adversely affected by foreign government regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local competitors, or that require foreign persons to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Further, the Company’s foreign subsidiaries may face governmentally imposed restrictions on their ability to transfer funds to their parent company. Activity outside the United States involves additional risks, including the possibility of: • United States embargoes or restrictive actions by U.S. and foreign governments that could limit the Company’s ability to provide services in foreign countries; • A change in, or the imposition of, withholding or other taxes on foreign income, tariffs or restrictions on foreign trade and investment; • limitations on the repatriation of earnings or currency exchange controls and import/export quotas; • local cabotage and local ownership laws and requirements; • nationalization, expropriation, asset seizure, blockades and blacklisting; • limitations in the availability, amount or terms of insurance coverage; • loss of contract rights and inability to enforce contracts; • political instability, war and civil disturbances or other risks that may limit or disrupt markets, such as terrorist attacks, piracy and kidnapping; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange that affect demand for the Company’s services and its profitability; • potential noncompliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the “FCPA”), and similar non-U.S. laws and regulations, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010; • labor strikes; • changes in general economic and political conditions; and • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations. Unstable political, military and economic conditions in foreign countries where a significant proportion of Offshore Marine Services’ operations are conducted could adversely impact the Company’s business. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 69% of Offshore Marine Services’ operating revenues resulted from its foreign operations. These operations are subject to risks, including potential vessel seizure, terrorist attacks, piracy, kidnapping, nationalization of assets, currency restrictions, import or export quotas and other forms of public and government regulation, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. Economic sanctions or an oil embargo, for example, could have significant impact on activity in the oil and gas industry and, correspondingly, on the Company should Offshore Marine Services operate vessels in a country subject to any sanctions or embargo, or in the surrounding region to the extent any sanctions or embargo disrupts its operations. 37 Table of Contents Offshore Marine Services, Marine Transportation Services, Aviation Services and Commodity Trading and Logistics rely on several customers for a significant share of their revenues, the loss of any of which could adversely affect each of their businesses and operating results. The portion of Offshore Marine Services’, Marine Transportation Services’, Aviation Services’ and Commodity Trading and Logistics’ revenues attributable to any single customer may change over time, depending on the level of relevant activity by any such customer, the segment’s ability to meet the customer’s needs and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. The loss of any large customer or several mid-size customers could have a material and adverse effect on such segment’s or the Company’s financial position or its results of operations. Consolidation of the Company’s customer base could adversely affect demand for its services and reduce its revenues. In recent years, oil and natural gas companies, energy companies and drilling contractors have undergone substantial consolidation and additional consolidation is possible. Consolidation results in fewer companies to charter or contract for the Company’s services. Also, merger activity among both major and independent oil and natural gas companies affects exploration, development and production activity as the consolidated companies integrate operations to increase efficiency and reduce costs. Less promising exploration and development projects of a combined company may be dropped or delayed. Such activity may result in an exploration and development budget for a combined company that is lower than the total budget of both companies before consolidation, which could adversely affect demand for the Company’s Offshore Marine Services’ vessels, Marine Transportation Services’ tankers, Aviation Services’ helicopters and Environmental Services’ products and services, thereby reducing the Company’s revenues. The Company may be unable to maintain or replace its offshore support vessels as they age. As of December 31, 2011, the average age of the Company’s Offshore Marine Services’ vessels, excluding its standby safety and wind farm utility vessels, was approximately 11 years. The Company believes that after an offshore support vessel has been in service for approximately 20 years, the expense (which typically increases with age) necessary to satisfy required marine certification standards may not be economically justifiable. The Company may be unable to carry out drydockings of its vessels or may be limited by insufficient shipyard capacity, which could adversely affect its ability to maintain its vessels. In addition, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable the Company to operate its older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its fleet by extending the economic life of existing vessels, or that its financial resources will be sufficient to enable it to make expenditures necessary for these purposes or to acquire or build replacement vessels. An increase in the supply of offshore support vessels or tankers could have an adverse impact on the charter rates earned by the Company’s offshore support vessels and tankers. Expansion of the supply of the worldwide offshore support vessel fleet would increase competition in the markets in which Offshore Marine Services operates. The refurbishment of disused or “mothballed” vessels, conversion of vessels from uses other than oil and gas exploration and production support and related activities or construction of new vessels could all add vessel capacity to current worldwide levels. A significant increase in vessel capacity could lower charter rates and result in lower operating revenues. Similarly, should competitors in the domestic petroleum and chemical product tanker industry construct a significant number of new tankers or large capacity integrated or articulated tug and barge units, demand for tanker assets could be adversely affected. If the Company does not restrict the amount of foreign ownership of its Common Stock, it could be prohibited from operating offshore support vessels, inland river vessels and barges and tankers in the United States and could be prohibited from operating helicopters, which would adversely impact its business and operating results. The Company is subject to the Jones Act, which governs, among other things, the ownership and operation of offshore support vessels, tankers and barges used to carry cargo between U.S. ports. The Jones Act requires that vessels engaged in the U.S. coastwise trade be built in the United States, registered under the U.S. flag, manned by predominantly U.S. crews, and owned and operated by U.S. citizens within the meaning of 38 Table of Contents the Jones Act. The Company is also subject to regulations pursuant to the Federal Aviation Act and other statutes (“Aviation Acts”). Generally, aircraft operating in the United States must be registered in the United States. In order to register such aircraft under the Aviation Acts, the Company must be owned or controlled by U.S. citizens. Although SEACOR’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws contain provisions intended to assure compliance with these provisions of the Jones Act and the Aviation Acts, a failure to maintain compliance would adversely affect the Company’s financial position and its results of operations and the Company would be prohibited from operating vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade and helicopters in the United States during any period in which the Company does not comply or cannot demonstrate to the satisfaction of the relevant governmental authorities the Company’s compliance with the Jones Act and the Aviation Acts. In addition, the Company could be subject to fines and its vessels could be subject to seizure and forfeiture for violations of the Jones Act and the related U.S. vessel documentation laws. Repeal, Amendment, Suspension or Non-Enforcement of the Jones Act would result in additional competition for Offshore Marine Services, Marine Transportation Services and Inland River Services and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. A substantial portion of the operations of Offshore Marine Services, Marine Transportation Services and Inland River Services are conducted in the U.S. coastwise trade. Subject to limited exceptions, the Jones Act requires that vessels engaged in U.S. coastwise trade be built in the United States, registered under the U.S. flag, manned by predominantly U.S. crews, and owned and operated by U.S. citizens within the meaning of the Jones Act. There have been attempts to repeal or amend such provisions, and such attempts are expected to continue in the future. Repeal, substantial amendment or wavier of such provisions would result in additional competition from vessels built in lower-cost foreign shipyards, owned and manned by foreign nationals with promotional foreign tax incentives and with lower wages and benefits than U.S. citizens, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position and its results of operations. In addition, the Company’s advantage as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded by periodic efforts and attempts by foreign interests to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the shipping of maritime cargo between covered U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-built vessels. Restrictions on foreign ownership of the Company’s vessels could limit its ability to sell off any portion of its business or result in the forfeiture of its vessels. Compliance with the Jones Act requires that non-U.S. citizens own no more than 25% in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels that the Company operates in the U.S. coastwise trade. If the Company were to seek to sell any portion of its business that owns any of these vessels, it would have fewer potential purchasers, since some potential purchasers might be unable or unwilling to satisfy the U.S. citizenship restrictions described above. As a result, the sales price for that portion of the Company’s business may not attain the amount that could be obtained in an unregulated market. Furthermore, if at any point the Company or any of the entities that directly or indirectly own its vessels cease to satisfy the requirements to be a U.S. citizen within the meaning of the Jones Act, the Company would become ineligible to operate in the U.S. coastwise trade and may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of its vessels. SEACOR’s certificate of incorporation limits the ownership of Common Stock by individuals and entities that are not U.S. citizens within the meaning of the Jones Act. These restrictions may affect the liquidity of the SEACOR’s Common Stock and may result in non-U.S. citizens being required to sell their shares at a loss or relinquish their voting, dividend and distribution rights. Under the Jones Act, at least 75% of the outstanding shares of each class or series of SEACOR’s capital stock must be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens within the meaning of the Jones Act. Certain provisions of SEACOR’s certificate of incorporation are intended to facilitate compliance with this requirement and may have an adverse effect on holders of shares of the Common Stock. 39 Table of Contents Under the provisions of SEACOR’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the aggregate percentage of ownership by non-U.S. citizens of any class of SEACOR’s capital stock (including Common Stock) is limited to 22.5% of the outstanding shares of each such class to ensure that such foreign ownership will not exceed the maximum percentage permitted by the Jones Act, which is presently 25%. (The Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes SEACOR’s Board of Directors, under certain circumstances, to increase the foregoing permitted percentage to 24%.) The Restated Certificate of Incorporation further provides that any issuance or transfer of shares to non-U.S. citizens in excess of such permitted percentage shall be ineffective as against the Company and that neither the Company nor its transfer agent shall register such purported issuance or transfer of shares to non-U.S. citizens or be required to recognize the purported transferee or owner as a stockholder of the Company for any purpose whatsoever except to exercise the Company’s remedies. Any such excess shares in the hands of a non-U.S. citizen shall not have any voting or dividend rights and are subject to redemption by the Company in its discretion. The liquidity or market value of the shares of common stock may be adversely impacted by such transfer restrictions. As a result of the above provisions, a proposed transferee of the Common Stock that is a non-U.S. citizen may not receive any return on its investment in shares it purportedly purchases or owns, as the case may be, and it may sustain a loss. The Company, in its discretion, is entitled to redeem all or any portion of such shares most recently acquired (as determined by its Board of Directors in accordance with guidelines that are set forth in its Restated Certificate of Incorporation), by non-U.S. citizens, in excess of such maximum permitted percentage for such class or series at a redemption price based on a fair market value formula that is set forth in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which may be paid in cash or promissory notes at the discretion of the Company. Such excess shares shall also not be accorded any voting, dividend or distribution rights until they have ceased to be excess shares, provided that they have not been already redeemed by the Company. As a result of these provisions, a purported stockholder who is a non-U.S. citizen may be required to sell its shares of Common Stock at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on its investment in such shares. Further, the Company may have to incur additional indebtedness, or use available cash (if any), to fund all or a portion of such redemption, in which case the Company’s financial condition may be materially weakened. So that the Company may ensure its compliance with the Jones Act, its Restated Certificate of Incorporation permits it to require that owners of any shares of its capital stock provide confirmation of their citizenship. In the event that a person does not submit such documentation to the Company, its Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides the Company with certain remedies, including the suspension of the payment of dividends and distributions with respect to those shares into an escrow account. As a result of non-compliance with these provisions, an owner of the shares of the Company’s Common Stock may lose significant rights associated with those shares. In addition to the risks described above, the foregoing foreign ownership restrictions could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that might involve a premium price for the Company’s Common Stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the Company’s stockholders. If non-U.S. citizens own more than 22.5% of SEACOR’s Common Stock, the Company may not have the funds or the ability to redeem any excess shares and it could be forced to suspend its operations in the U.S. coastwise trade. SEACOR’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions prohibiting ownership of its Common Stock by non-U.S. citizens, in the aggregate, in excess of 22.5% of such shares. In addition, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation permits the Company to redeem such excess shares. The per share redemption price may be paid, as determined by the Company’s Board of Directors, by cash or promissory notes. However, the Company may not be able to redeem such excess shares for cash because its operations may not have generated sufficient excess cash flow to fund such redemption. If, for any reason, the Company is unable to effect such a redemption when such ownership of shares by non-U.S. citizens is in excess of 25.0% of the Common Stock, or otherwise prevent non-U.S. citizens in the aggregate from owning shares in excess of 25.0% of any such class or series of the Company’s capital stock, or fail to exercise its redemption rights because it is unaware that such ownership exceeds such percentage, the Company will likely be unable to comply with the 40 Table of Contents Jones Act and will likely be required by the applicable governmental authorities to suspend its operations in the U.S. coastwise trade. Any such actions by governmental authorities would have a severely detrimental impact on the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended, provides the federal government with broad discretion in regulating the leasing of offshore resources for the production of oil and gas. Because Offshore Marine Services’ and Aviation Services’ operations rely on offshore oil and gas exploration and production, the government’s exercise of authority under the provisions of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to restrict the availability of offshore oil and gas leases could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. Operational risks could disrupt operations and expose the Company to liability. The operation of offshore support vessels, tankers, roll-on/roll-off vessels, inland river towboats, tugs, helicopters, oil spill response vessels and barges is subject to various risks, including catastrophic disaster, adverse weather, mechanical failure and collision. Additional risks to vessels include adverse sea conditions, capsizing, grounding, oil and hazardous substance spills and navigation errors. These risks could endanger the safety of the Company’s personnel, equipment, cargo and other property, as well as the environment. If any of these events were to occur, the Company could be held liable for resulting damages, including loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts, higher insurance rates, and damage to the Company’s reputation and customer relationships. In addition, the affected vessels or helicopters could be removed from service and would then not be available to generate revenues. Operational risks related to Aviation Services including, but not limited to, safety issues with respect to certain helicopter models and equipment failure could adversely impact results of operations and in some instances, expose the Company to liability. Risks relating to the operation of helicopters include harsh weather and marine conditions, mechanical failures, crashes, and collisions, which may result in personal injury, loss of life, damage to property and equipment, and the suspension or reduction of operations. The Company’s aircraft have been involved in accidents in the past, some of which have included loss of life and property damage. The Company may experience similar accidents in the future. If the Company or other operators experience incidents with helicopter models that the Company operates or contract-leases, obligating the Company to take such helicopters out of service until the cause of the incidents is rectified, the Company would lose revenue and might lose customers. In addition, safety issues experienced by a particular model of helicopter could result in customers refusing to use a particular helicopter model or a regulatory body grounding that particular helicopter model. The value of the helicopter model might also be permanently reduced in the market if the model were to be considered less desirable for future service. Helicopter operations involve risks that may not be covered by the Company’s insurance or the Company’s insurance may be inadequate to protect it from the liabilities that could arise. The operation of helicopters inherently involves a degree of risk. Hazards include adverse weather conditions, collisions, fire and mechanical failures, which may result in death or injury to personnel, damage to equipment, loss of operating revenues, contamination of cargo, pollution and other environmental damages and increased costs. The Company also is exposed to liabilities including aviation malfunctions and crashes, FAA and foreign aviation regulation compliance, including grounding certain aircraft, and environmental compliance. The Company also may be adversely affected by accidents involving aircraft that it does not own or operate, particularly if they involve the same model of aircraft as in the Company’s fleet. The Company carries insurance, including hull and liability, liability and war risk, general liability, workers’ compensation, and other insurance customary in the industry in which it operates. The Company also conducts training and safety programs to promote a safe working environment and minimize hazards. The Company’s insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and maximum coverage amounts. The Company’s insurance policies are also subject to compliance with certain conditions, the failure of which could lead to a denial of coverage as to a particular claim or the voiding of a particular insurance policy. The amount of insurance coverage the Company is able to maintain may be inadequate to cover all potential liabilities or the total amount of insured claims and liabilities. The Company cannot assure that its existing insurance coverage can be renewed at commercially reasonable rates or that it will be possible to obtain 41 Table of Contents insurance to protect against all of its operational risks and liabilities. Any material liability not covered by insurance or for which third-party indemnification is not available, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Revenues from Aviation Services are dependent on flight hours, which are subject to adverse weather conditions and seasonality. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues from Aviation Services is dependent on actual flight hours. Prolonged periods of adverse weather, storms and the effect of fewer hours of daylight adversely impact Aviation Services. Winter months generally have more days of adverse weather conditions than the other months of the year, with poor visibility, high winds, heavy precipitation and fewer daylight hours, all of which adversely affect helicopter operations. In addition, June through November is tropical storm season in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico; during tropical storms, helicopters are unable to operate in the area of a storm. In addition, many of Aviation Services’ facilities are located along the U.S. Gulf of Mexico coast, and tropical storms may cause damage to its property. The helicopter industry is subject to intense competition. The helicopter industry is highly competitive and involves an aggressive bidding process among providers having the necessary equipment, operational experience and resources. The Company must provide safe and efficient service or risk losing customers or the termination of contracts, which could result in lost market share and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. Consolidation in the aircraft parts industry could affect the service and operation of Aviation Services’ helicopters. A reduction in the number of approved parts suppliers or a consolidation in the spare parts redistribution market could interrupt or delay the supply of aircraft components, adversely affecting Aviation Services’ ability to meet service commitments to customers and could cause Aviation Services to lose opportunities with existing and future customers. Aviation Services might not be able to qualify or identify alternative suppliers in a timely fashion, or at all. Consolidations involving suppliers could further reduce the number of alternatives for Aviation Services and affect the cost of components. An increase in the cost of components could make Aviation Services less competitive and result in lower margins. Revenues from Marine Transportation Services could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for domestic refined petroleum products, crude oil or chemical products, or a change in existing methods of delivery. A reduction in domestic consumption of refined petroleum products, crude oil or chemical products, the development of alternative methods of delivery of refined petroleum, crude oil, and a reduction in domestic refining capacity could reduce demand for the Company’s services. Construction of additional refined petroleum product, natural gas or crude oil pipelines could have a material adverse effect on Marine Transportation Services’ revenues. Long-haul transportation of refined petroleum products, crude oil and natural gas is generally less costly by pipeline than by tanker. Existing pipeline systems are either insufficient to meet demand in, or do not reach all of, the markets served by Marine Transportation Services’ tankers. The construction and operation of new pipeline segments to the Florida market could have a material and adverse effect on Marine Transportation Services’ business. The Company is subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing worker safety and health and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect the Company’s operations. Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the USCG, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), the National Transportation Safety Board (“NTSB”) and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and to regulation by port states and class society organizations, such as the American Bureau of Shipping, as well as to international regulations from international treaties, such as the Safety of Life at Sea convention administered by port states and class societies. The USCG, OSHA and NTSB set safety standards and are authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. The U.S. Customs and Boarder Protection and USCG are authorized to inspect vessels at will. 42 Table of Contents The Company’s business and operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of oil and hazardous materials into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection and occupational safety and health. Compliance with such laws and regulations may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes, and the phase-out of certain product tankers. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of the Company’s operations. Some environmental laws impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous materials and damage to natural resources, which could subject the Company to liability without regard to whether it was negligent or at fault. These laws and regulations may expose the Company to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, including charterers. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase the Company’s costs. The Company cannot be certain that existing laws, regulations or standards, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. For more information, see Item 1. “Government Regulation – Environmental Compliance.” Emergency response revenues are subject to significant volatility. Environmental Services’ response revenues and profitability are event driven and can vary greatly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year based on the number and magnitude of responses. A change in oil spill regulation could reduce demand for Environmental Services’ emergency response services. Environmental Services is dependent upon regulations promulgated under OPA 90, international conventions and, to a lesser extent, local regulations. A change in emergency regulations and/or increased competition from non-profit competitors could decrease demand for Environmental Services’ emergency response services and/or increase costs without a commensurate increase in revenue. A relaxation of oil spill regulation or enforcement could reduce demand for Environmental Services’ emergency response services. Environmental Services is dependent upon the enforcement of regulations promulgated under OPA 90, international conventions and, to a lesser extent, local regulations. Less stringent emergency regulations or less aggressive enforcement of these regulations could decrease demand for Environmental Services’ emergency response services. There can be no assurance that oil spill regulation will not be relaxed or enforcement of existing or future regulation will not become less stringent. If this happens, the demand for Environmental Services’ emergency response services could be adversely impacted. A change in, or revocation of, National Response Corporation’s classification as an Oil Spill Removal Organization could result in a loss of business. The National Response Corporation (“NRC”) is classified by the USCG as an Oil Spill Removal Organization (“OSRO”). The USCG classifies OSROs based on their overall ability to respond to various types and sizes of oil spills. USCG-classified OSROs have a competitive advantage over non-classified service providers because customers of a classified OSRO may cite classified OSROs in their response plans in lieu of listing their oil spill response resources in filings with the USCG. A loss of NRC’s classification or changes in the requirements for classification could eliminate or diminish NRC’s ability to provide customers with this exemption. If this happens, Environmental Services could lose customers. Environmental Services could incur liability in connection with providing spill response services. Although Environmental Services is generally exempt in the United States from liability under the CWA for its own actions and omissions in providing spill response services, this exemption might not apply if it were found to have been grossly negligent or to have engaged in willful misconduct, or if it were to have failed to provide these services consistent with applicable regulations and directives under the CWA. In addition, the exemption under the federal CWA would not protect Environmental Services against liability for personal injury or wrongful death, or against prosecution under other federal or state laws. Although most of the states within the United States in which Environmental Services provides services have adopted similar exemptions, several states have not. If a court or other applicable authority were to determine that Environmental Services does not benefit from federal or state exemptions from liability in providing emergency response services, Environmental 43 Table of Contents Services could be liable together with the local contractor and the responsible party for any resulting damages, including damages caused by others. In the international market, Environmental Services does not benefit from the spill response liability protection provided by the CWA and therefore is subject to the liability terms and conditions negotiated with its international clients. Inland River Services could experience variation in freight rates. Freight transportation rates may fluctuate as the volume of cargo and availability of barges change. The volume of freight transported on the Inland River Waterways may vary as a result of various factors, such as global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic and international agricultural production and demand, and foreign currency exchange rates. Barge participation in the industry can also vary year-to-year and is dependent on the number of barges built and retired from service. Extended periods of high barge availability and low cargo demand could adversely impact Inland River Services. Inland River Services’ results of operations could be adversely affected by the decline in U.S. grain exports. Inland River Services’ business is significantly affected by the volume of grain exports handled through ports in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Grain exports can vary due to a number of factors including crop harvest yield levels in the United States and abroad, and the demand for grain in the United States. A shortage of available grain overseas can increase demand for U.S. grain. Conversely, an abundance of grain overseas can decrease demand for U.S. grain. A decline in exports could result in excess barge capacity, which would likely lower freight rates earned by Inland River Services. Inland River Services’ results of operations could be adversely affected by international economic and political factors. The actions of foreign governments could affect the import and export of the dry-bulk commodities typically transported by Inland River Services. Foreign trade agreements and each country’s adherence to the terms of such agreements can raise or lower demand for U.S. imports and exports of the dry-bulk commodities that Inland River Services transports. National and international boycotts and embargoes of other countries’ or U.S. imports or exports together with the raising or lowering of tariff rates could affect the demand for the transportation of cargos handled by Inland River Services. These actions or developments could have an adverse impact on Inland River Services. Inland River Services’ results of operations are affected by seasonal activity. Inland River Services’ business is seasonal, and its quarterly revenues and profits have historically been lower in the first and second quarters of the year and higher in the third and fourth quarters, during the grain harvest. Inland River Services’ results of operations are affected by adverse weather and river conditions. Weather patterns can affect river levels and cause ice conditions during winter months, which can hamper barge navigation. Locks and dams on river systems may be closed for maintenance or other causes, which may delay barge movements. These conditions could adversely impact Inland River Services. The aging infrastructure on the U.S. Inland River Waterways may lead to increased costs and disruptions in Inland River Services’ operations. Many of the locks and dams on the U.S. Inland River Waterways were built early in the last century, and their age makes them costly to maintain and susceptible to unscheduled maintenance outages. Delays caused by malfunctioning locks and dams could increase Inland River Services’ operating costs and delay the delivery of cargos. Moreover, in the future, increased diesel fuel user taxes could be imposed to fund necessary infrastructure improvements, and such increases may not be recoverable by Inland River Services through pricing increases. Inland River Services’ results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by fuel price fluctuations. For the most part, Inland River Services purchases towboat and fleeting services from third party vendors. The price of these services can rise when fuel prices escalate and could adversely impact Inland River Services’ results of operation. 44 Table of Contents The Company’s insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect it from the liabilities that could arise in its businesses. Although the Company maintains insurance coverage against the risks related to its businesses, risks may arise for which the Company may not be insured. Claims covered by insurance are subject to deductibles, the aggregate amount of which could be material. Insurance policies are also subject to compliance with certain conditions, the failure of which could lead to a denial of coverage as to a particular claim or the voiding of a particular insurance policy. There also can be no assurance that existing insurance coverage can be renewed at commercially reasonable rates or that available coverage will be adequate to cover future claims. If a loss occurs that is partially or completely uninsured, the Company could be exposed to substantial liability. The Company’s global operations are subject to certain foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity and commodity price risks. The Company is exposed to certain foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity and commodity price risks. Some of these risks may be hedged, but fluctuations could impact the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. The Company has, and anticipates that it will continue to have, contracts denominated in foreign currencies. It is often not practicable for the Company to effectively hedge the entire risk of significant changes in currency rates during a contract period. The Company’s financial position and its results of operations have been negatively impacted for certain periods and positively impacted for other periods, and may continue to be affected to a material extent by the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company’s financial position and its results of operations may also be affected by the cost of hedging activities that the Company undertakes. The Company holds a large proportion of its net assets in cash equivalents and short-term investments, including a variety of public and private debt and equity instruments. Such investments subject the Company to risks generally inherent in the capital markets. Given the relatively high proportion of the Company’s liquid assets relative to its overall size, its financial position and its results of operations may be materially affected by the results of the Company’s capital management and investment activities and the risks associated with those activities. Volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty also increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on the Company’s debt and equity instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. In addition, changes in interest rates may have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. Commodity Trading and Logistics’ results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the availability, demand and price of agricultural commodities, weather, disease, government programs, and competition. The availability and price of agricultural commodities may fluctuate widely due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. Reduced supply of agricultural commodities due to weather-related factors or other reasons could adversely affect Commodity Trading and Logistics’ profitability. Reduced supplies of agricultural commodities could limit Commodity Trading and Logistics’ ability to procure, transport, store, process, and merchandise agricultural commodities in an efficient manner. In addition, the availability and price of agricultural commodities can be affected by other factors, such as plant disease, which can result in crop failures and reduced harvests. Commodity Trading and Logistics’ is subject to economic downturns, political instability and other risks of doing business globally, which could adversely affect operating results. Commodity Trading and Logistics conducts its business in many countries and geographic areas, and plans to expand its business in emerging market areas such as Asia, Africa and parts of the Caribbean. Both developed and emerging market areas are subject to economic downturns and emerging market areas could be subject to more volatile economic, political and market conditions. Such economic downturns and volatile conditions may have a negative impact on Commodity Trading and Logistics’ ability to execute its business strategies and on its financial position and its results of operations. Commodity Trading and Logistics’ results of operations could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations, including political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, burdensome taxes and tariffs, enforceability of legal agreements and judgments, and other trade barriers. 45 Table of Contents Commodity Trading and Logistics is subject to government policies and regulations, in general, and specifically those affecting the agricultural sector and related industries, which could adversely affect its operating results. Agricultural production and trade flows are subject to government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded, the volume and types of imports and exports, the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials, and industry profitability. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Future government policies may adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of Commodity Trading and Logistics’ products, restrict its ability to do business in its existing and target markets, and negatively impact revenues and operating results. Commodity Trading and Logistics is subject to numerous laws and regulations globally that could adversely affect operating results. Commodity Trading and Logistics is required to comply with the numerous and broad reaching laws and regulations administered by United States federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to, but not limited to, the sourcing, transporting, storing and merchandising of agricultural commodities and products. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject Commodity Trading and Logistics to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of its products. Commodity Trading and Logistics’ risk management strategies may not be effective. Commodity Trading and Logistics’ business is affected by counterparty risk including non-performance by suppliers, vendors and counterparties, fluctuations in agricultural commodity prices, transportation costs, energy prices, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates. Although Commodity Trading and Logistics may engage in hedging transactions to manage these risks, such transactions may not be successful in mitigating its exposure to these fluctuations and may adversely affect operating results. The Company’s inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on its business. Attracting and retaining skilled personnel across all of the Company’s business segments is an important factor in its future success. The market for the personnel employed is highly competitive and the Company cannot be certain that it will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in the future. The failure to successfully complete construction or conversion of the Company’s vessels, repairs, maintenance or routine drydockings on schedule and on budget could adversely affect the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. From time to time, the Company may have a number of vessels under conversion and may plan to construct or convert other vessels in response to current and future market conditions. The Company also routinely engages shipyards to drydock vessels for regulatory compliance and to provide repair and maintenance. Construction and conversion projects and drydockings are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns, resulting from shortages of equipment, lack of shipyard availability, unforeseen engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor. A significant delay in either construction or drydockings could have a material adverse effect on contract commitments and revenues with respect to vessels under construction, conversion or undergoing drydockings. Significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction, conversion or retrofit could also adversely affect the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. A Violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may adversely affect the Company’s business and operations. In order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, the Company seeks to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. As a U.S. corporation, the Company is subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or maintaining business. The Company has adopted stringent procedures to enforce compliance with the FCPA, but it may be held liable for 46 Table of Contents actions taken by its strategic or local partners even though these partners may not be subject to the FCPA. Any determination that the Company has violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. An outbreak of any contagious disease, such as H1N1 Flu, may adversely affect the Company’s business and operations. The outbreak of diseases, such as H1N1 Flu, commonly referred to as Swine Flu, has curtailed and may curtail travel to and from certain countries, or geographic regions. Restrictions on travel to and from these countries or other regions due to additional incidences for diseases, such as Swine Flu, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position or its results of operations. There are risks associated with climate change and environmental regulations. Governments around the world have, in recent years, placed increasing attention on matters affecting the environment and this could lead to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that in turn could result in a reduction in demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel. Governments could also pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and therefore the services provided by the Company. Such initiatives could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. Ineffective Internal Controls could impact the Company’s Business and Operating Results: The Company’s internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if the Company experiences difficulties in their implementation, the Company’s business and operating results could be harmed and the company could fail to meet its financial reporting obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 