Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with our forward looking statement related risks as set forth in the beginning of this report, as well as the other information in this report, when evaluating our business and future prospects. Should any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or a portion of the value of their investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008 have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern for the year ending December 31, 2009. Our independent registered public accounting firm issued a report that was included in this annual report which included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt in our ability to continue as a going concern without additional capital becoming available. Our ability to continue as a going concern ultimately is dependent on our ability to obtain additional equity or debt financing, attain further operating efficiencies and, ultimately, to achieve profitable operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We have a significant working capital shortage; are currently in default in payment of approximately $1.75 million of indebtedness which became due in March 2009, and may face litigation or even bankruptcy if we are unable to met our obligations. As at December 31, 2008, the Company’s consolidated current liabilities exceeded its consolidated current assets by $7,261,614. The Company is currently in default in the payment of notes aggregating $1.75 million which became due in March 2009 or earlier, and outstanding accounts payable of approximately $4.0 million are also past due. Unless the Company is able to obtain additional capital or other financing within the next 60 to 90 days, or sooner, its creditors may sue to collect on their notes and accounts, which action may accelerate the due date of other Company indebtedness aggregating approximately $1.2 million that is not currently in default. In such event, the Company may be required to seek protection from its creditors under the Federal Bankruptcy Act. Although the Company is actively pursuing such financing, there is no assurance that it will be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Even if such financing is obtainable, it may be expected that the terms thereof will significantly dilute the equity interests of existing stockholders of the Company. -12- Our existing and potential subsidiaries need to raise significant additional capital which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition to the indebtedness and other obligations of Solar Thin Films, our Kraft subsidiary requires additional capital to meet its expansion plans and may require approximately $1.1 million to consummate the proposed Buda Solar acquisition. In addition, in order to consummate the proposed Algatec acquisition, the Company must assist Algatec in obtaining up to $50.0 million of expansion financing. Although the Company and Algatec are considering various debt financing proposals, there is no assurance that such additional financing will be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If adequate funding is not available on acceptable terms, Kraft may be unable to develop or enhance its products or take advantage of its acquisition opportunities, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition and may reduce our ability to continue to conduct business operations. Any additional equity or equity-type financing (including the issuance of convertible securities or warrants) will likely involve substantial dilution to our then existing shareholders We have a history of losses, expect to incur substantial further losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, which may decrease the market value of our stock. The Company has reported a net loss of $6,974,675 from operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 and a net loss of $3,824,645 from operations for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company has suffered operating losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception and, at December 31, 2008, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $32,549,564. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, we will continue to incur losses. We will continue to incur losses until we are able to establish significant sales. Our possible success is dependent upon the successful development and marketing of our products, as to which there is no assurance. Any future success that we might enjoy will depend upon many factors, including factors out of our control or which cannot be predicted at this time. These factors may include changes in or increased levels of competition, including the entry of additional competitors and increased success by existing competitors, changes in general economic conditions, increases in operating costs, including costs of supplies, personnel, marketing and promotions, reduced margins caused by competitive pressures and other factors. These conditions may have a materially adverse effect upon us or may force us to reduce or curtail operations. In addition, we will require additional funds to sustain and expand our sales and marketing activities, particularly if a well-financed competitor emerges. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The inability to obtain sufficient funds from operations or external sources would require us to curtail or cease operations. Our revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly. As a result of our limited operating history and the rapidly changing nature of the markets in which the Company competes, our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period. These fluctuations may be caused by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following, as well as others discussed elsewhere in this section: · how and when we introduce new products and services and enhance our existing products and services; · our ability to attract and retain new customers and satisfy our customers' demands; · the timing and success of our brand-building and marketing campaigns; · our ability to establish and maintain strategic relationships; · our ability to attract, train and retain key personnel; · the emergence and success of new and existing competition; · varying operating costs and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our business operations and infrastructure, domestically and internationally, including the hiring of new employees; · changes in the mix of products and services that we sell to our customers; · costs and effects related to the acquisition of businesses or technology and related integration; and · costs of litigation and intellectual property protection. In addition, because the market for our products and services is relatively new and rapidly changing, it is difficult to predict future financial results. -13- For these reasons, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results, if any, as indications of future results. Our future operating results could fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors and significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations in our operating results will likely increase the volatility of our stock price. Risks Related to our Current Business Operations Kraft has generated limited revenues and it may never achieve profitability. To date, the Company, through its Kraft subsidiary, has generated limited revenues of $3,436,779 and $5,779,578 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, and the Company incurred losses from operations of $6,974,675 and $3,824,645, respectively. Kraft’s future existence is dependent upon management’s ability to develop profitable operations and resolve its liquidity problems. We cannot assure you that the Company can achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Kraft’s operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. There can be no assurance that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether our PV manufacturing facilities development will achieve market acceptance. The Company may not achieve its business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on Kraft. These matters raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our equipment business is small and projected revenues may not materialize. Since its inception, our thin film amorphous silicon equipment business located in Hungary has only delivered $11,643,311 of equipment to customers and has never sold more than $5,000,000 of equipment in any one year. Our ability to achieve or even approach our sales and profit projections are subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control.. Such factors include, without limitation: · entering into definitive agreements with financially credible customers that provide for adequate profit margins; · our obtaining meaningful down payments to provide sufficient cash flow to enable Kraft to purchase necessary components and pay labor costs; · significantly increasing our personnel and infrastructure; · our having or obtaining sufficient manufacturing capacity; · our ability to meet contracted for delivery schedules; and · our ability to obtain and post completion bonds or other guarantees, if required by certain customers. Kraft is dependent on a only a few customers and any loss of these customers will have a negative impact on our operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Kraft derived over 96% of its total revenues from one key customer. A loss of this relationship, for any reason could cause the Company to experience difficulties in obtaining revenue and implementing its business strategy. There can be no assurance that the Company could establish other relationships of adequate revenue in a timely manner or at all. In the event that STF is not able to significantly increase the number of customers or vendors that purchase its products its financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Evaluating our business and future prospects may be difficult due to the rapidly changing market landscape. There is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. Although Kraft was formed in 1993 for the development of vacuum based technologies it has only recently developed four turnkey PV module manufacturing facilities pursuant to which it has only recognized limited revenues. The market we are addressing is rapidly evolving and is experiencing technological advances and new market entrants. Our future success will require us to scale our manufacturing capacity significantly beyond the capacity of our Budapest, Hungary manufacturing facility, and our business model and technology are unproven at significant scale. Moreover, Kraft’s strategic partnerships with Buda Solar and Algatec, are only in the early stages of development and have not been officially agreed to and formalized. Kraft has limited experience upon which to predict whether it will be successful. As a result, you should consider its business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a growing and rapidly evolving market. -14- Our future success substantially depends on our ability to significantly increase our manufacturing capacity through the development of additional manufacturing facilities. We may be unable to achieve our capacity expansion goals as a result of a number of risks, which would limit our growth potential, impair our operating results and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. Our future success depends on our ability to increase our manufacturing capacity through the development of additional manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to achieve the production volumes and per unit costs that will allow us to meet customer demand, maintain our competitive position and achieve profitability. Our ability to develop additional manufacturing facilities is subject to significant risk and uncertainty, including: · we may need to continue to raise significant additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible or debt securities in order to finance the costs of development of any additional facility, which we may be unable to do on reasonable terms or at all, and which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders; · the build-out of any additional facilities will be subject to the risks inherent in the development of a new manufacturing facility, including risks of delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be out of our control, such as delays in government approvals or problems with supplier relationships; · our manufacturing processes, particularly those for the development of the equipment used in the turnkey PV manufacturing facilities, are unproven at large scale and may prove difficult to implement in any new facility; and · if a new facility is established internationally, we may encounter legal restrictions and liability, encounter commercial restrictions and incur taxes and other expenses to do so and otherwise be subject to the risks inherent in conducting business in a foreign jurisdiction as described elsewhere in this section. If we are unable to develop and successfully operate additional manufacturing facilities, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to scale our business to the extent necessary to achieve profitability, which would cause our stock price to decline. Moreover, there can be no assurance that if we do expand our manufacturing capacity that we will be able to generate customer demand for our turnkey PV manufacturing facilities at these production levels or that we will increase our revenues or achieve profitability. Our “turnkey” manufacturing facility may not gain market acceptance, which would prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. The development of a successful market for turnkey manufacturing facility may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: · our ability to market our services together with our equipment; · our failure to produce a turnkey facility that competes favorably against companies electing to develop these facilities internally; · our failure to produce a turnkey facility that produces PV modules that compete favorably against conventional energy sources and alternative distributed generation technologies, such as wind and biomass, on the basis of cost, quality and performance; and · our failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with strategic partners, including, Buda Solar and Algatec. If our “turnkey” facilities or the PV solar modules produced by our facilities fail to gain market acceptance, we would be unable to increase our sales and market share and to achieve and sustain profitability. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our turnkey manufacturing facilities uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce the next generation of our turnkey facility could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. The solar power industry is rapidly evolving and competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and to effectively compete in the future. We believe that a variety of competing solar power technologies are under development by other companies that could result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected to be produced utilizing our turnkey facilities. Our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others and other technologies may prove more advantageous for the commercialization of solar power products. -15- We face risks associated with the marketing, development and sale of our turnkey facilities internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, it could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. To date, Kraft has delivered equipment for facilities in New Jersey, Germany, Portugal, China, Taiwan and Greece and is now delivering a “turnkey” system in Spain. Going forward we expect to seek to develop turnkey facilities on an international basis. It will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop our international sales channels either internally (with BudaSolar) or through outside agents. In addition, the marketing, development and sale of our turnkey facilities internationally could expose us to a number of markets with which we have limited experience. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, it could impair our ability to grow our business abroad. These risks include: · difficult and expensive compliance with the commercial and legal requirements of international markets, with which we have only limited experience; · inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; · encountering trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could affect the competitive pricing of our turnkey facilities; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates relative to the United States dollar and the Hungarian florint; · difficulty in recruiting and retaining individuals skilled in international business operations; and · difficulty of enforcing revenue collection internationally. We expect that a portion of our international sales will be denominated in United States dollars. As a result, increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies would cause our products to become less competitive in international markets and could result in limited, if any, sales and profitability. Furthermore, in the development of our facilities in foreign markets, we may encounter legal restrictions, commercial restrictions and incur taxes and other expenses to establish our manufacturing facilities in certain countries. In addition, we may potentially forfeit, voluntarily or involuntarily, foreign assets due to economic or political instability in the countries where our local manufacturing facilities are located. We may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our turnkey PV manufacturing facilities which would result in continued losses and may require us to curtail or cease. While we have made progress in the development of our PV manufacturing facilities, we have generated limited revenues and we are unable to project when we will achieve profitability, if at all. As is the case with any new technology, we expect the development process to continue. We cannot assure that our engineering resources will be able to modify the product fast enough to meet market requirements. We can also not assure that our product will gain market acceptance and that we will be able to successfully commercialize the technologies. The failure to successfully develop and commercialize the technologies passed its current stage would result in continued losses and may require us to curtail or cease operations. Our fixed-price contracts could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. Substantially all of our agreements with customers are based upon fixed-price contracts. In a fixed-price contract, the price is not subject to adjustment based on cost incurred to perform the required work under the contract. Therefore, we fully absorb cost overruns on fixed-price contracts, thereby reducing our profit margin. Further risks associated with fixed-price contracts include the difficulty of estimating costs that are related to performance in accordance with contract specifications and the possibility of obsolescence in connection with long-term procurements. We may not be able to accurately estimate the costs of the components and materials that we use to manufacture our products, because their prices have been, and we expect them to continue to be, subject to volatility. Also, any failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a contract can reduce our profitability. Under fixed-price contracts, we may not be able to pass price and cost increases on to our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We have a few proprietary rights, the lack of which may make it easier for our competitors to compete against us. We attempt to protect our limited proprietary property through copyright, trademark, trade secret, nondisclosure and confidentiality measures. Such protections, however, may not preclude competitors from developing similar technologies. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technology could harm our ability to compete. -16- Our future success and ability to compete depends in part upon our proprietary technology and our trademarks, which we attempt to protect with a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as with our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. These legal protections afford only limited protection and are time-consuming and expensive to obtain and/or maintain. Further, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. We depend on the services of key executives and technical and other personnel, the loss of whom could materially harm our business or reduce our operational effectiveness. Some of our senior executives are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying opportunities and arranging necessary financing. We are highly dependent on our management, in particular, Peter Lewis, the Group Vice President and General Manager of the Thin Film Group, and Robert Rubin, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and consultants who are all critical to the development of our financing arrangements, technologies and business. Losing the services of any of these individuals, including, without limitation, Peter Lewis or Robert Rubin, could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. If we were to lose any one of these individuals, we may experience difficulties in competing effectively, developing our technology and implementing our business strategies or financing arrangements. We believe that they could not quickly be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executives. The employment agreement entered with Mr. Lewis and our company (as amended on April 7, 2009) is for a term of three years through June 2010. The agreements entered between our company and Rubin expire in June 2009. There is a continuing demand for qualified technical personnel, and we believe that our future growth and success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain such personnel. Competition for personnel in our industry is intense, and there is a limited number of persons with knowledge of, and experience in, this industry. Although we currently experience relatively low rates of turnover for our technical personnel, the rate of turnover may increase in the future. During surge production periods, we rely on a substantial number of temporary employees. An inability to attract or maintain a sufficient number of technical or temporary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our contract performance or on our ability to capitalize on market opportunities. We do not maintain theft or casualty insurance and only maintain modest liability and property insurance coverage and therefore we could incur losses as a result of an uninsured loss. We do not maintain theft or casualty insurance and we have modest liability and property insurance coverage. We cannot assure that we will not incur uninsured liabilities and losses as a result of the conduct of our business. Any such uninsured or insured loss or liability could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Risks Related to our Proposed Business Operations Substantially all of Algatec's existing and projected 2009 revenues are derived from its OEM contract with Q-Cells, which contract will expire at the end of 2009; there can be no assurance that Q-Cells will renew such contract beyond such date or on financially acceptable terms. A loss of the OEM contract with Q-Cells or a reduction of sales or profit margins under such OEM contract would have a material adverse effect on Algatec’s business. Algatec derived approximately 60% of its 2008 revenues from its OEM contract with Q-Cells and anticipates that a significant portion of its projected 2009 revenues will be derived under such contract that currently expires on December 31, 2009. Although we have received agreement in principle with Q-Cells to extend such agreement through 2010 and anticipate signed such extension in January 2009, even if extended, the Q-Cells contract will then expire on December 31, 2010. Although Algatec believes that Q-Cells will negotiate a contract extension beyond 2010 with revised pricing and other terms prior to such anticipated December 31, 2010 expiration date, there can be no assurance Q-cells will renew such contract beyond 2010 or, even if renewed, that such renewed contract will be on financially attractive terms. Even if renewed for 2011 and beyond, a reduction in the annual sales revenues or profit margins under such OEM contract would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. A termination of such OEM contract in the near term would have a material adverse effect to our business, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make principal installment payments under the notes. -17- Algatec's inability to perform under its Q-Cells OEM contract would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated business and prospects. A failure to meet perform or otherwise meet delivery schedules to Q-Cells or other customers in accordance with contractual requirements, would have a material adverse effect on our reputation and future sales and business prospects. Each of such contracts obligates Algatec to meet certain delivery schedules, and furnish equipment that performs within agreed upon product specifications. A default or other failure to perform obligations under such contracts, could result in Algatec incurring substantial financial losses and subject them to liabilities to their customers. Prices of metallurgical crystalline cells and other components may increase causing our profit margins to decrease Upon completion of its fixed asset additions, Algatec intends to increasingly focus a portion of its business activities on Profit Center 2 - the sale of metallurgical crystalline solar modules to third parties other than Q-Cells. The price currently being charged by Q-Cells to Algatec for metallurgical crystalline cells that are not covered by the OEM agreement (i.e., to be included in solar modules sold resale to third parties) may significantly increase. This which would erode anticipated profit margins and Algatec’s projected earnings. Because it does not control the production of cells or other components, Algatec may also be subject to delays caused by interruption in production of materials based on conditions not within its control. Such conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of Q-Cells or other suppliers, transportation interruptions, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. There can be no assurance that Algatec will be able to obtain alternative sources of metallurgical crystalline cells or other components at favorable prices, or at all, if it experiences supply shortages. Algatec’s strategy depends on continued outsourcing by Q-Cells and producers of solar modules and power plants. Algatec's strategy to increase sales depends in part on the continued outsourcing by Q-Cells of metallurgical crystalline solar modules for installation in power projects. Although Algatec believes that, as a world-wide supplier of metallurgical crystalline and other solar cells to module producers, Q-Cells would not elect to compete with its customers, there can be no assurance that it will not change its business strategy and enter the module manufacturing business in direct competition with Algatec and others. In such event, Q-Cells would likely terminate its agreement with Algatec and may refuse to continue to sell Algatec metallurgical crystalline cells, or significantly raise the price of such solar module component. In addition, other large producers of thin-film a-Si modules or operators of turn-key solar power facilities, may elect to stop outsourcing the purchase of equipment to manufacture such modules. The occurrence of either of such events, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There is no assurance that Algatec will be able to build equip and operate its new manufacturing facilities on schedule or within the amount budgeted for such purpose. Even if Algatec is able to obtain the necessary financing, the construction of its manufacturing facility and receipt and installation of necessary production equipment could be materially delayed by factors beyond the control of Algatec, including labor disputes, material shortages and weather conditions. There can also be no assurance that, once installed, the production equipment will work properly or efficiently; failing which Algatec’s production schedule could be materially delayed. In addition, Algatec could face significant cost overruns in its construction and equipment installation efforts which could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and production scheduling. There is no assurance that Algatec will receive the investment premium under the 2007 Investment Premium Act or the subsidies under the regional aid scheme we applied for and/or that we will not have to pay back the respective subsidies. Algatec will have a legal right to obtain investment premiums under the 2007 Investment Premium Act provided that the statutory requirements of the 2007 Investment Premium Act are fulfilled. On this basis, Algatec will have a legal right to obtain a 25% investment premium with regard to the movable assets (investments with regard to the purchase of machinery and equipment) and a 12.5% investment premium for the immovable assets (investments with regard to the construction of the 125,000 square foot plant addition). Once the investments have been made and the movable and immovable assets have been constructed, purchased and installed, we believe that it is highly probable that the statutory requirements will have been fulfilled and that the German authority therefore will grant the investment premium calculated for the movable assets on the one hand and for the immovable assets on the other hand. However, there is no assurance that the German administrative authority will not conclude that the statutory requirements have not been fulfilled, or seek to reclaim the investment premiums at a later stage. For instance, the German administrative authority is obliged to repeal its decision and to reclaim the investment premium if the applicable company does not comply with the statutory requirements during the commitment period of three years after completion of the investment project. -18- Further, Algatec will not have a strict legal right to obtain the administrative approval of a regional subsidy even if the requirements of the respective regional aid scheme are fulfilled. Thus, it cannot be assured that the authority of the Land Brandenburggrant will grant the subsidy. Even if the Land Brandenburggrant will grant the subsidy, it cannot be assured that, after exercising its discretion, the Land Brandenburggrant will not reclaim the subsidy at a later stage. The Land Brandenburggrant will be obliged to repeal its decision and to reclaim the subsidy if the requirements of the regional aid schemes are not fulfilled after the completion of the investment project. In addition and even if the German administrative authorities approve the aforementioned state aid measures it is possible that the European Commission could, acting on its own initiative or following a complaint, come to the conclusion that the respective measure(s) is/are not compatible with the Common Market of the EU, it could oblige Germany to reclaim the relevant subsidies. In such a case, Algatec might even be obliged to pay for interest and/or damages. Algatec depends on the services of key executives and technical and other personnel, the loss of whom could materially harm our business or reduce its operational effectiveness. Some of the Algatec senior executives, especially Rainer Ruschke and Ullrich Jank, are important to its success because they have been instrumental in developing with Komax its module stringing equipment and other technical capabilities, operating its business, identifying, and recruiting and training key personnel, identifying opportunities. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect Algatec's business until a suitable replacement could be found. We believe that they could not quickly be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities. There is a continuing demand for qualified technical personnel, and we believe that our future growth and success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain such personnel. Competition for personnel in our industry is intense, and there is a limited number of persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the crystalline module production business. Although Algatec currently experience relatively low rates of turnover for technical personnel, the rate of turnover may increase in the future. During surge production periods, Algatec relies on a substantial number of temporary employees. An inability to attract or maintain a sufficient number of technical or temporary personnel could have a material adverse effect on its contract performance or on its ability to capitalize on market opportunities Other Business Risks Fixed-price contracts could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. Substantially all of agreements with customers of Algatec and Kraft are based upon fixed-price contracts. In a fixed-price contract, the price is not subject to adjustment based on cost incurred to perform the required work under the contract. Therefore, we and Kraft fully absorb cost overruns on fixed-price contracts, thereby reducing our profit margin. Further risks associated with fixed-price contracts include the difficulty of estimating costs that are related to performance in accordance with contract specifications and the possibility of obsolescence in connection with long-term procurements. We may not be able to accurately estimate the costs of the components and materials that we use to manufacture our products, because their prices have been, and we expect them to continue to be, subject to volatility. Also, any failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a contract can reduce our profitability. Under fixed-price contracts, we may not be able to pass price and cost increases on to our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We have no excess production facilities. Therefore, the loss of one of our facilities would adversely affect our production capability. Our manufacturing operations occur at one facility located in Prosen, Germany. We have no other production facilities at the present time. We may lose production capability if a natural or other disaster were to occur that affected one of our facilities or if we were unable to renew an expired lease for any such facility. The loss of any of our facilities would adversely affect our production capacity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Governmental regulation may have a negative impact on our business. Our operations and properties are subject to regulation by various government entities and agencies. As a producer of food products, our operations are subject to production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution standards. Our manufacturing, processing and distribution facilities are also subject to various workplace regulations. We believe that our current compliance programs adequately address such concerns and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, compliance with, or any violation of, current and future laws or regulations could require material expenditures or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. -19- Product recalls could have a material adverse effect on our business. Manufacturers of solar modules are sometimes subject to the recall of their products for a variety of reasons, including for product defects or failure to adequately perform to contract specifications. If any of our products are recalled due to a product defect or for any other reason, we could be required to incur the expense of the recall or the expense of any resulting legal proceeding. Additionally, if one of the significant products of Algatec or Kraft were subject to recall, the image of that brand and our company could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the consolidated operations of Solar Thin Films. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and that of Kraft. We and Kraft face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if any of the products we sell cause injury or illness. We have obtained liability insurance for product liability claims. We cannot assure you, however, that this insurance will continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or that any insurance that we obtain will be adequate to cover product liability claims against us. We generally obtain contractual indemnification from parties supplying our products, but this form of indemnification is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness and financial resources of the indemnifying party. If we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, losses associated with product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant costs and liabilities. We are subject to various U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing and imposing liabilities for the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and on-site and off-site disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the maintenance of a safe workplace and the investigation and cleanup of contamination at currently or formerly owned, operated or leased sites, as well as third-party owned sites that may have been impacted by our operations. In addition, some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and limit pollution of the environment. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, civil or criminal fines, penalties or sanctions and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations or non-compliance with the environmental permits required at our facilities. Some environmental laws impose strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, liability on the current, as well as former, owners and operators of contaminated sites for costs of investigation and remediation of contamination on and emanating from these sites, and also impose liability for damages to natural resources. See discussion of the ongoing environmental issue at the site of our packaging plant in ‘‘Business—Environmental Matters’’ below at page 57. These laws, regulations and permits also could require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or decrease the likelihood of accidental releases of hazardous substances. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination at our or other sites or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could require us to incur future costs that would have a negative effect on our results of operations or cash flow. Risks Related to Solar Thin Films Common Stock Our current stockholders are expected to incur significant immediate substantial dilution. As of April 13, 2009, we had 58,136,113 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In addition, at such date there are an additional 20,028,959 shares issuable under outstanding options and warrants. Assuming all shares of our common stock that are issuable under outstanding options, warrants are issued, a total of approximately 112,000,000 shares would be issued and outstanding and our current stockholders’ equity in such common stock will be reduced to 51.6%, or a dilution of 48.4%. In addition, inasmuch as the per share price for the Company’s common stock has dropped significantly from a high of $1.14 in the quarter ended June 30, 2008 to $0.18 per share as at March 31, 2009, any additional common stock, convertible securities or warrants we may issue to raise much needed capital will further significantly dilute the equity ownership of our current stockholders. -20- The proposed acquisition of Algatec will result in a further immediate and substantial dilution of the equity of our current stockholders. Under the terms of our proposed share exchange agreement, the current stockholders of Algatec (which includes The Rubin Family Stock Trust formed by our Chairman, CEO and CFO, Robert M. Rubin) will receive, in exchange for 100% of the share capital of Algatec, 60% of the “Fully-Diluted Common Stock” of the Company. Based on such definition (excluding adjustments that may result from shares or share equivalents that we may issue to provide financing for our company unrelated to the Algatec acquisition), the Algatec shareholders would receive (based on our current capitalization) approximately 150,000,000 additional shares of our common stock) or 60% of the approximately 250,000,000 million shares to be outstanding after such acquisition. This transaction will therefore further reduce the equity of the 58,136,113 shares owned by our current common stockholders to approximately 23% of the outstanding shares, before dilution resulting the exercise of outstanding warrants and options. Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock may continue to be volatile. Further, the limited market for our shares will make our price more volatile. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “SLTN". There is a limited trading market for our common stock. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of any markets that may develop for our common stock, the ability of holders of our common stock to sell our common stock, or the prices at which holders may be able to sell our common stock. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Any future market price for our shares may continue to be very volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. We do not know of any one particular factor that has caused volatility in our stock price. However, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public's negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of its common stock to decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, the market price of its common stock could fall. These sales also may make it more difficult for the Company to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that the Company deems reasonable or appropriate. Stockholders who have been issued shares may be able to sell their shares pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, beginning six months after the stockholders acquired their shares. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any returns on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting it at such time as the board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if its stock price appreciates. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” with a limited trading market. Our common stock is currently listed for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board which is generally considered to be a less efficient market than markets such as NASDAQ or other national exchanges, and which may cause difficulty in conducting trades and difficulty in obtaining future financing. Further, our securities are subject to the "penny stock rules" adopted pursuant to Section 15 (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act. The penny stock rules apply to non-NASDAQ companies whose common stock trades at less than $5.00 per share or which have tangible net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if we have been operating for three or more years). Such rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade "penny stock" to persons other than "established customers" complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade "penny stock" because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. In the event that we remain subject to the "penny stock rules" for any significant period, there may develop an adverse impact on the market, if any, for our securities. Because our securities are subject to the "penny stock rules," investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. Further, for companies whose securities are traded in the OTC Bulletin Board, it is more difficult: (i) to obtain accurate quotations, (ii) to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services, such as the Dow Jones News Service, generally do not publish press releases about such companies, and (iii) to obtain needed capital. -21- Foreign Currency and Exchange Risks and Rate Revaluation. We will be subject to significant foreign exchange risk. There are currently no meaningful ways to hedge currency risk in Hungary. Therefore, the Company’s ability to limit its exposure to currency fluctuations is significantly restricted. The Company’s ability to obtain dividends or other distributions is subject to, among other things, restrictions on dividends under applicable local laws and foreign currency exchange regulations of the jurisdictions in which its subsidiaries operate. The laws under which the Company’s operating subsidiaries are organized provide generally that dividends may be declared by the partners or shareholders out of yearly profits subject to the maintenance of registered capital and required reserves and after the recovery of accumulated losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 