Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our actual results may differ materially from the results projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the following: If we are unable to successfully implement a plan of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, we ultimately may need to consider other alternatives, including, but not limited to, a Chapter 7 liquidation. On October 14, 2005, we filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California, Santa Ana Division (the “Bankruptcy Court”) (Case No. SA 05-19539-JB) (the “Chapter 11 Case”). In connection with this Chapter 11 Case, on December 9, 2005, we filed a Plan of Reorganization (the “Plan”) and a related Disclosure Statement with the Bankruptcy Court. In addition, we have received a report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 that included an explanatory paragraph which stated that the financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The explanatory paragraph stated that the uncertainty regarding the outcome of our Chapter 11 case raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of our financial condition and our Chapter 11 Case, we may find it difficult to operate our business in a normal fashion. In addition, our Chapter 11 Case could adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborative relationships with business partners and our ability to sell our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We believe that our success will depend, in part, on the continuing services of our key management personnel. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material impact on our financial results. We have entered into retention agreements with our key management personnel in order to help ensure their continued service throughout our Chapter 11 Case. However, we cannot be assured that such retention agreements will be adequate incentive to retain our key management while we are in bankruptcy proceedings. Additionally, our success may depend on our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. Our success depends on our ability to judge the impact of competitive products and pricing. Successful operation of our business requires the ability to identify the effects of product and pricing trends. If we are unable to evaluate the impact of product or pricing trends effectively, we may fail to implement strategies allowing us to capitalize on those trends, which may result in decreased sales or increased costs. Our success depends on our ability to compete with our competitors. The foodservice industry is intensely competitive with respect to the quality and value of food products offered and price. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, operating and other resources than we have, which may give them competitive advantages. Our competitors 17 could also make changes to pricing or other marketing strategies which may impact us detrimentally. As our competitors expand operations, we expect competition to intensify. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We face commodity price and availability risks. We purchase energy and agricultural products that are subject to price volatility caused by weather, market conditions and other factors that are not predictable or within our control. Increases in commodity prices could result in lower operating margins. Occasionally, the availability of commodities can be limited due to circumstances beyond our control. If we are unable to obtain such commodities, we may be unable to offer related products, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. We depend on our suppliers to deliver quality products to us timely. Our profitability is dependent on, among other things, our continuing ability to offer fresh, high-quality food at moderate prices. Our dependence on frequent deliveries of food and paper products subjects our business to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply, caused by adverse weather or other conditions, could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. Any disruption in these distribution services could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Consumer preferences and perceptions may have significant effects on our business. Foodservice businesses are often affected by changes in consumer tastes and perceptions. Foodservice businesses such as ours can also be affected materially and adversely by publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of products. We can be similarly affected by consumer concerns with respect to the nutritional value of our products. Our business may be impacted by increased insurance costs. We may be negatively affected by rising healthcare costs. Although we seek to manage our claims to prevent increases, such increases can occur unexpectedly and without regard to our efforts to limit them. If such increases occur, we may be unable to pass them along to the consumer through product price increases, resulting in decreased operating results. The nature of our business exposes us to potential litigation. We have thousands of interactions or transactions each day with vendors, customers, employees and others. In the ordinary course of business, disputes may arise for a number of reasons. We may also be subject to liability claims or product recalls for products to be distributed in the future or products that have already been distributed. We cannot be certain that we will prevail in every legal action brought against us. Governmental regulations may change and require us to incur substantial expenditures to comply. We are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state and local level in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, environmental issues and minimum wage. Governmental entities may change regulations that may require us to incur substantial cost increases in order to comply with such laws and regulations. While we endeavor to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we are in full compliance with all laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to sanctions or civil remedies, including fines and injunctions. The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws may affect our financial condition. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. These laws govern discharges to air and water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes. These laws may also impose liability for damages from and the costs of cleaning up sites of spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous materials. We may be responsible for environmental conditions or 18 contamination relating to our facilities and the land on which our facilities are located, regardless of whether we lease or own the facility or land in question and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or by a prior owner or tenant. The costs of any cleanup could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. We may have difficulty implementing, in a timely manner, the internal control procedures necessary to allow our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control. Pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the SEC, we will be required to furnish an internal control report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007. Our auditors will then be required to attest to, and report on, our assessment. In order to issue our report, our management must document both the design of our internal control and the testing processes that support management’s evaluation and conclusion. Our management has begun the necessary processes and procedures for issuing its report on our internal control. However, we may face significant challenges in implementing the required processes and procedures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary for our management to issue its management report in a timely manner, or that management will be able to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. See also Item 9A for further discussion and analysis of our internal control procedures. 