Item 1A. Risk Factors The homebuilding industry is cyclical in nature and has experienced downturns, which have in the past and may in the future cause the Company to incur losses in financial and operating results. The Company is affected by the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry, which is sensitive to many factors, including fluctuations in general and local economic conditions; interest rates; housing demand; employment levels; levels of new and existing homes for sale; demographic trends; availability of homeowner financing; and consumer confidence. In 2010, the markets served by the Company and the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole continued to experience a prolonged decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available-for-sale. The homebuilding industry has been impacted by a lack of consumer confidence and an industrywide softening of demand for new homes, which has resulted in increased supplies of resale and new home inventories. In addition, an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and existing homes, has depressed prices and reduced margins for the sale of new homes. These trends resulted in overall fewer home sales; higher inventories of unsold homes; and the use of heightened levels of discounts, incentives, price concessions and other marketing efforts by homebuilders to close home sales in 2010 compared to the past several years. Reflecting these demand and supply trends, the Company experienced a large drop in net orders in 2010 relative to prior years. The Company cannot predict how long these market conditions will persist and what effect they might have on the Company's financial and operating performance. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant downturn over the last several years. A continuing decline in demand for new homes coupled with an increase in the inventory of available new homes and alternatives to new homes could adversely affect the Company's sales volume and pricing even more than has occurred to date. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant downturn over the last several years. As a result, the Company has experienced a significant decline in demand for newly built homes in almost all of its markets. This decline in demand, together with an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and used homes (including foreclosed homes), has depressed prices and reduced margins. This combination of lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of homes the Company can sell and the prices at which it can sell them. In 2008 and 2009, the Company experienced periods of significant decline in its sales results; reductions in margins as a result of higher levels of sales incentives and price concessions; and higher than normal cancellation rates. In 2010, the Company's margins approached closer to normal market levels, but demand continued to be weak and there continued to be a significant inventory for used homes, including foreclosed homes. The Company has no basis for predicting how long supply and demand will remain imbalanced in various homebuilding markets or whether sales volumes or pricing will return to pre-2007 levels. Demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which the Company has no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing and the level of employment. Demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. During the last few years, the mortgage lending industry experienced significant instability. As a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to subprime and other nonconforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make residential mortgage loans, and tightened their credit 10 Table of Contents requirements with regard to them. Fewer loan products, stricter loan qualification standards and higher down payment requirements have made it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of a home. Although the Company's financial services segment offers mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes it builds, the Company may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to its potential buyers. Lack of available mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes the Company builds and, in some instances, causes potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. There has also been a substantial loss of jobs in the United States during the last several years. People who are unemployed or concerned about job loss are unlikely to purchase new homes, and may be forced to sell the homes they own. Therefore, the current employment levels can adversely affect the Company both by reducing demand for the homes it builds and by increasing the supply of homes for sale. Because almost all of the Company's homebuyers finance the purchase of their homes, the terms and availability of mortgage financing can affect the demand for and the ability to complete the purchase of a home, as well as the Company's future operating and financial results. The Company's business and earnings depend on the ability of its homebuyers to obtain financing for the purchase of their homes. Many of the Company's homebuyers must sell their existing homes in order to buy a home from the Company. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the mortgage lending industry as a whole experienced significant instability due to, among other things, defaults on subprime and other loans, resulting in the declining market value of such loans. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to tightened credit requirements and an increase in indemnity claims for mortgages that were originated and sold by the Company. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused most lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that do not conform to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA or VA standards. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications, in turn, make it more difficult for a borrower to finance the purchase of a new home or the purchase of an existing home from a potential move-up buyer who wishes to purchase one of the Company's homes. In general, these developments have resulted in a reduction in demand for the homes sold by the Company and have delayed any general improvement in the housing market. This, in turn, has resulted in a reduction in demand for the mortgage loans that the Company originates through RMC. If the Company's potential homebuyers or the buyers of the homebuyers' existing homes cannot obtain suitable financing, or if increased indemnity claims are made for mortgages that are originated and sold, the result will have an adverse effect on the Company's operating and financial results and performance. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs or regulation could lower demand for the Company's homes and affect the Company's profitability. Nearly all of the Company's customers finance the purchase of their homes. Prior to 2006, historically low interest rates and the increased availability of specialized mortgage products, including mortgage products requiring no or low down payments, and interest-only and adjustable-rate mortgages, made homebuying more affordable for a number of customers and more available to customers with lower credit scores. Rising interest rates, decreased availability of mortgage financing or of certain mortgage programs, higher down payment requirements or increased monthly mortgage costs, as discussed above, may lead to reduced demand for the Company's homes and mortgage loans. Increased interest rates can also hinder the Company's ability to realize its backlog because its home purchase contracts provide customers with a financing contingency. Financing contingencies allow customers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event that they cannot arrange for adequate financing. As a result, rising interest rates can decrease the Company's home sales and mortgage originations. Any of these factors could have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position. As a result of the turbulence in the credit markets and mortgage finance industry in 2008 and 2009, the federal government has taken on a significant role in supporting mortgage lending through its conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which purchase home mortgages and mortgage-backed securities originated by mortgage lenders, and its insurance of mortgages originated by lenders through the FHA and VA. FHA backing of mortgages has recently been particularly important to the 11 Table of Contents mortgage finance industry and to the Company's business. In 2010, 65.1 percent of the Company's homebuyers who chose to finance with RMC purchased a home using an FHA- or VA-backed loan. In addition, the Federal Reserve has purchased a sizable amount of mortgage-backed securities, in an effort to stabilize mortgage interest rates and to support the market for mortgage-backed securities, a program that ended in early 2010. The availability and affordability of mortgage loans, including the consumer interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected by a curtailment or ceasing of the federal government's mortgage-related programs or policies. The FHA may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs, and/or limit the number of mortgages it insures. Due to growing federal budget deficits, the U.S. Treasury may not be able to continue supporting the mortgage-related activities of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the FHA and the VA at present levels, or may revise significantly the Federal government's participation in and support of the residential mortgage market. Because the availability of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA- and VA-backed mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of the Company's homes, any limitations, restrictions, or changes in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce its home sales and adversely affect the Company's results of operations, including the income from RMC. Mortgage defaults by homebuyers who financed homes using nontraditional financing products are increasing the number of homes available for resale. During the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry, many homebuyers financed their purchases using nontraditional adjustable-rate or interest-only mortgages or other mortgages, including subprime mortgages that involved, at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed-rate mortgages. As a result, new homes became more affordable. However, as monthly payments for these homes increased as a result of either rising adjustable interest rates or principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers have defaulted on their payments and had their homes foreclosed, which has increased the inventory of homes available for resale. This may continue. Foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. In an environment of declining home prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. In addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, they have been eliminating some of their available nontraditional and subprime financing products, as well as increasing qualifications needed for mortgages and adjusting terms to address increased credit risk. In general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it harder for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase the Company's homes, which has an adverse effect on its sales volume. The Company may be subject to indemnification claims on mortgages sold to third parties. The majority of loans originated by the Company are sold within one business day of the date they close. The mortgage industry has experienced substantial increases in delinquencies, foreclosures and foreclosures-in-process. All mortgages generally are sold without recourse, although under certain limited circumstance, RMC is required to indemnify loan investors for losses incurred on sold loans. Reserves are created to address repurchase and indemnity claims made by these third-party investors or purchasers. These reserves are based on pending claims received that are associated with previously sold mortgage loans, industry foreclosure data, the Company's portfolio delinquency and foreclosure rates on sold loans made available by investors, as well as on historical loss payment patterns used to develop ultimate loss projections. Estimating loss has been made more difficult by the recent processing delays related to foreclosure losses affecting agencies and financial institutions. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating these matters, the Company cannot provide assurance that the amounts reserved will be adequate, or that any potential inadequacies will not have an adverse effect on results of operations. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. If the federal or state governments change income tax laws, as some policy makers have discussed, by eliminating or substantially reducing these income tax benefits, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase significantly. This could adversely impact demand for and/or sales prices of new homes. 12 Table of Contents Additionally, the Company's home sales decreased in 2010 due, in part, to the expiration of federal and state tax credits made available to certain qualifying homebuyers. The Company is subject to inventory risk for its land, options for land, building lots and housing inventory. The market value of the Company's land, building lots and housing inventories fluctuates as a result of changing market and economic conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can result in losses in poorly performing projects or markets. Changes in economic and market conditions have caused the Company to dispose of land and options for land and housing inventories on a basis that has resulted in loss and required it to write down or reduce the carrying value of its inventory. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company decided not to pursue development and construction in certain areas where it held land or had made option deposits, which resulted in $3.1 million in recorded write-offs of option deposits and preacquisition costs. In addition, market conditions led to recorded land-related impairments on communities and land in the aggregate amount of $33.3 million during the same period. The Company can provide no assurance that it will not need to record additional write-offs in the future. In the course of its business, the Company makes acquisitions of land. Although it employs various measures, including its land approval process and continued review by senior management, designed to manage inventory risk, the Company cannot assure that these measures will enable it to avoid or eliminate its inventory risk. Construction costs can fluctuate and impact the Company's margins. The homebuilding industry has, from time to time, experienced significant difficulties, including shortages of qualified tradespeople; reliance on local subcontractors who may be inadequately capitalized; shortages of materials; and volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs. The Company may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices because of either market conditions or because it fixes its prices at the time home sales contracts are signed. Supply shortages and other risks related to demand for building materials and/or skilled labor could increase costs and delay deliveries. There is a high level of competition in the homebuilding industry for skilled labor and building materials. Rising costs or shortages in building materials or skilled labor could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. The Company is generally unable to pass on increases in construction costs to homebuyers who have already entered into home purchase contracts. Purchase contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, and this may occur well in advance of when construction commences. Further, the Company may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs because of market conditions. Sustained increases in construction costs due to competition for materials and skilled labor and higher commodity prices (including prices for lumber, metals and other building material inputs), among other things, may, over time, decrease the Company's margins. Shortages in the availability of subcontract labor may delay construction schedules and increase the Company's costs. The Company conducts its construction operations only as a general contractor. Virtually all architectural, construction and development work is performed by unaffiliated third-party subcontractors. As a consequence, the Company depends on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors for the design and construction of its homes. The Company cannot make assurances that there will be sufficient availability of and satisfactory performance by these unaffiliated third-party subcontractors. In addition, inadequate subcontractor resources could delay the Company's construction schedules and have a material adverse effect on its business. Because the homebuilding industry is competitive, the business practices of other homebuilders can have an impact on the Company's financial results and cause these results to decline. The residential homebuilding industry is highly competitive. The Company competes in each of its markets with a large number of national, regional and local homebuilding companies. In 2010, this competition caused the Company to adjust selling prices in response to competitive conditions in the markets in which it operates and required it to increase the use of sales incentives. The Company cannot predict whether 13 Table of Contents these measures will be successful or if additional incentives will be made in the future. It also competes with other housing alternatives, including existing homes and rental housing. Principal competitive factors in homebuilding are home price, availability of customer financing, design, quality, reputation, relationships with developers, accessibility of subcontractors, and availability and location of homesites. Any of the foregoing factors could have an adverse impact on the Company's financial performance and results of operations. The Company's financial services segment competes with other mortgage bankers to arrange financing for homebuyers. Principal competitive factors include interest rates, fees and other features of mortgage loan products available to the consumer. Homebuilding is subject to warranty claims in the ordinary course of business that can be subject to uncertainty. As a homebuilder, the Company is subject to warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company records warranty and other reserves for the homes it sells to cover expected costs of materials and outside labor during warranty periods based on historical experience in the Company's markets and judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built by the Company, including an analysis of historical claims. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, the Company cannot provide assurance that the amounts reserved for warranty claims will be adequate, or that any potential inadequacies will not have an adverse effect on results of operations. Because the Company's business is subject to various regulatory and environmental limitations, it may not be able to conduct its business as planned. The Company's homebuilding segments are subject to various local, state and federal laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, building design, construction, stormwater permitting and discharge, and similar matters, as well as open spaces, wetlands and environmentally protected areas. These include local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area, as well as other municipal or city land planning restrictions, requirements or limitations. The Company may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to regulatory compliance, municipal appeals and other government planning processes in any of the areas in which it operates. These factors could result in delays or increased operational costs. With respect to originating, processing, selling and servicing mortgage loans, the Company's financial services segment is subject to the rules and regulations of the FHA, Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, VA and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD"). Mortgage origination activities are further subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and their associated regulations. These and other federal and state statutes and regulations prohibit discrimination and establish underwriting guidelines that include provisions for audits, inspections and appraisals; require credit reports on prospective borrowers; fix maximum loan amounts; and require the disclosure of certain information concerning credit and settlement costs. The Company is required to submit audited financial statements annually, and each agency or other entity has its own financial requirements. The Company's affairs are also subject to examination by these entities at all times to assure compliance with applicable regulations, policies and procedures. The Company's ability to grow its business and operations depends, to a significant degree, upon its ability to access capital on favorable terms. The ability to access capital on favorable terms is an important factor in growing the Company's business and operations in a profitable manner. In December 2007, Moody's lowered the Company's debt rating to non-investment grade with a negative outlook, and Standard & Poor's ("S&P") also reduced the Company's investment-grade rating to non-investment grade in May 2008. The Company received additional downgrades from these agencies in 2008. In 2009, Moody's and S&P increased the Company's rating outlook to stable from negative, and it remained stable through 2010. The loss of an investment-grade rating affects the cost, availability and terms of credit available to the Company, making it more difficult and costly to access the debt capital markets for funds that may be required to implement its business plans. 14 Table of Contents Natural disasters may have a significant impact on the Company's business. The climates and geology of many of the states in which the Company operates present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, tornadoes, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, its business and financial condition may be adversely affected. The Company's net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if it experiences an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. The Company has experienced and continues to experience substantial operating losses, including realized losses for tax purposes from sales of inventory and land previously written down for financial statement purposes, which would produce net operating losses and unrealized losses that may reduce potential future federal income tax obligations. It may also generate net operating loss carryforwards in future years. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50.0 percent of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5.0 percent or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. If the Company undergoes an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving its common stock, including purchases or sales of stock between 5.0 percent stockholders, the Company's ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards and to recognize certain built-in losses would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of the Company's net operating loss carryforwards could expire before it would be able to use them. The Company's inability to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards could have a negative impact on its financial position and results of operations. In late 2008 and early 2009, the Company adopted a shareholder rights plan and amended its charter to implement certain share transfer restrictions in order to preserve stockholder value and the value of certain tax assets primarily associated with net operating loss carryforwards and built-in losses under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The shareholder rights plan and charter provisions are intended to prevent share transfers that could cause a loss of these tax assets. Both the rights plan and the charter amendment were approved by the Company's stockholders. The Company can provide no assurance that the rights plan and the charter provisions will protect the Company's ability to use its net operating losses and unrealized losses to reduce potential future federal income tax obligations. (See Note K, "Shareholder Rights Plan.") The Company's short-term investments and marketable securities are subject to certain risks which could materially adversely affect overall financial position. The Company invests a portion of its available cash and cash equivalent balances by purchasing marketable securities with maturities in excess of three months in a managed portfolio. The primary objective of these investments is the preservation of capital, with the secondary objectives of attaining higher yields than those earned on the Company's cash and cash equivalent balances and maintaining a high degree of liquidity. Should any of the Company's short-term investments or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could materially and adversely affect the Company's overall financial position by limiting its ability to fund operations. Because this report contains forward-looking statements, it may not prove to be accurate. This report and other Company releases and filings with the SEC may contain forward-looking statements. The Company generally identifies forward-looking statements using words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "foresee," "goal," "intend," "likely," "may," "plan," "project," "should," "target," "will" or similar statements. Because these statements reflect its current views concerning future events, they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risks and uncertainties identified in this report. Actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in these forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 