Item 1A. Risk Factors If real estate and economic conditions deteriorate, the Company's revenue may decrease. The Company can be significantly affected by the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry which is sensitive to fluctuations in general and local economic conditions, interest rates, housing demand, employment levels, availability of financing and levels of consumer confidence. The effects of these fluctuations differ among the various geographic markets in which it operates. Sales of new homes are affected by market conditions for resale homes and rental properties. Its business is also affected by local economic conditions, such as employment rates and housing demand in the markets in which the Company builds homes. The markets in which it operates can experience mild to significant declines in housing demand. The Company is currently experiencing a decline in market demand in some of its markets. If market demand significantly changes, the Company is subject to inventory risk. Inventory risk can be substantial for homebuilders. The market value of the Company's land, building lots and housing inventories fluctuates as a result of changing market and economic conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can result in losses in poorly performing projects or markets. In the event of significant changes in economic or market conditions, the Company may dispose of land or housing inventories on a basis that may result in a loss. In the course of its business, the Company continuously seeks and makes acquisitions of land for expansion into new markets, as well as for replacement and expansion of land inventory within its current markets. Although it employs various measures, including its land approval process and continued review by senior management designed to manage inventory risks, the Company cannot assure that these measures will enable it to avoid or eliminate its inventory risk. Construction costs can fluctuate and impact the Company's margins. The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced significant difficulties, including: shortages of qualified trades people; reliance on local subcontractors who may be inadequately capitalized; shortages of materials; and volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs. The Company may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices either because of market conditions or because the Company fixes its prices at the time home sales contracts are signed. If interest rates rise further, then the Company's business may decline and profitability may be reduced. Interest rates can significantly affect the Company's lines of business. Higher interest rates affect the ability of buyers to qualify for mortgage financing and decrease demand for new homes. As a result, rising interest rates can decrease its home sales and mortgage originations. Further, the level and expected direction of interest rates can adversely affect the profitability of sales. Any of these factors could have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position. Because the Company's industry is highly competitive, others may be more successful than it and cause its business to decline. The residential housing industry is highly competitive. The Company competes in each of its markets with a large number of national, regional and local homebuilding companies. This competition could make it more difficult to acquire suitable land at acceptable prices, force it to increase selling incentives or lower its sales per community. Any of these could have an adverse impact on the Company's financial performance or results of operations. It also competes with other housing alternatives, including existing homes and rental housing. Principal competitive factors in homebuilding are home price, design, quality, reputation, relationship with developers, accessibility of subcontractors, availability and location of lots and availability of customer financing. 11 The Company's financial services segment competes with other mortgage bankers to arrange financing for homebuyers. Principal competitive factors include interest rates and other features of mortgage loan products available to the consumer. Because the Company's business is subject to various regulatory and environmental limitations, it may not be able to conduct its business as planned. The Company's homebuilding segment is subject to various local, state and federal laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, building design, construction, stormwater permitting and discharge and similar matters, as well as open space, wetlands and environmentally protected areas. These include local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area, as well as other municipal or city land planning restrictions, requirements or limitations. The Company may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to regulatory compliance, municipal appeals and other government planning processes in any of the areas in which it operates. The Company's financial services segment is subject to the rules and regulations of FHA, HUD, VA, FNMA and FHLMC with respect to originating, processing, selling and servicing mortgage loans. Mortgage origination activities are further subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and their associated regulations. These and other federal and state statutes and regulations, among other things, prohibit discrimination and establish underwriting guidelines which include provisions for audits, inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers, fix maximum loan amounts and require the disclosure of certain information concerning credit and settlement costs. The Company is required to submit audited financial statements annually, and each agency or other entity has its own financial requirements. The Company's affairs are also subject to examination by these entities at all times to assure compliance with applicable regulations, policies and procedures. Natural disasters may have a significant impact on the Company's business. The climates and geology of many of the states in which the Company operates present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, its business in those states may be adversely affected. Because this report contains forward-looking statements, it may not prove to be accurate. This report and other Company releases and filings with the SEC may contain forward-looking statements. The Company generally identifies forward-looking statements using words like "believe," "intend," "expect," "may," "should," "plan," "project," "contemplate," "anticipate," "target," "estimate," "foresee," "goal," "likely," "will" or similar statements. Because these statements reflect its current views concerning future events, these statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumption, including the risks and uncertainties identified in this report. Actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in these forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 