ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Much of the information included in this annual report includes or is based upon estimates, projections or other “forward-looking statements.” Such forward-looking statements include any projections or estimates made by us and our management in connection with our business operations. These include (i) continued availability of funds pursuant to the DIP Credit Agreement , (ii) the potential prospective for coalbed methane and conventional natural gas production in the Coos Bay Basin and the Chehalis Basin, (iii) the potential pipeline capacity in the port of Coos Bay area, and (iv) greater market for natural gas in Coos County and the Pacific Northwest region in general. Although these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions, or other future performance suggested herein. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. Such estimates, projections or other “forward-looking statements” involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution readers of this annual report that important factors in some cases have affected and, in the future, could materially affect actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other “forward-looking statements.” In evaluating us, our business and any investment in our business, readers should carefully consider the following factors. We face significant challenges in connection with our bankruptcy reorganization. On June 2, 2008, the Company and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We are currently operating our businesses as debtors-in-possession pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code. On June 16, 2008, we filed the Plan with the Bankruptcy Court, which will consider whether to confirm the Plan. The Plan may not receive the requisite acceptance by creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest, and the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the Plan. Moreover, even if the Plan receives the requisite acceptance by creditors, equity holders and parties in interest and is approved by the Bankruptcy Court, the Plan may not be viable. In addition, due to the nature of the reorganization process, creditors and other parties in interest may take actions that may have the effect of preventing or unduly delaying confirmation of the Plan. Accordingly, we provide no assurance as to whether or when the Plan may be confirmed in the Chapter 11 process. We face uncertainty regarding the adequacy of our capital resources and have limited access to additional financing. We are currently operating under a $4.5 million debtors-in-possession financing facility. The DIP Credit Agreement contains certain highly restrictive covenants which require us, among other things, to maintain our corporate existence, make certain payments, perform our obligations under existing agreements, purchase insurance and provide financial records, and which limit or prohibit our ability to incur indebtedness, make prepayments on or purchase indebtedness in whole or in part, pay dividends, make investments, lease properties, create liens, consolidate or merge with another entity or allow one of our subsidiaries to do so, sell assets, and acquire facilities or other businesses. 11 We do not assure you that we will be able to consistently comply with these and other restrictive covenants in our DIP Credit Agreement. Furthermore, any advances under the DIP Credit Agreement are at the discretion of the DIP lender, and we have no control over its decision to provide any additional financing. In addition to the cash requirements necessary to fund ongoing operations, we anticipate that we will incur significant professional fees and other restructuring costs in connection with the Chapter 11 process and the restructuring of our business operations. We do not assure you that the amounts of cash available from our DIP Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund operations until the Plan receives the requisite acceptance by creditors, equity holders and parties in interest and is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. If available borrowings under the DIP Credit Agreement are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. We can provide no assurance that additional financing would be available or, if available, offered on acceptable terms. As a result of the Chapter 11 process and the circumstances leading to the Chapter 11 Cases, our access to additional financing is, and for the foreseeable future will likely continue to be, very limited. Our long-term liquidity requirements and the adequacy of our capital resources are difficult to predict at this time, and ultimately cannot be determined until a plan of reorganization has been developed and is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court in the Chapter 11 process. We are subject to restrictions on the conduct of our business. We are operating our businesses as debtors-in-possession pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code. Under applicable bankruptcy law, during the pendency of the Chapter 11 process, we will be required to obtain the approval of the Bankruptcy Court prior to engaging in any transaction outside the ordinary course of business. In connection with any such approval, creditors and parties in interest may raise objections to approval of the action and may appear and be heard at any hearing with respect to the action. Accordingly, although we may sell assets and settle liabilities (including for amounts other than those reflected on our financial statements) with the approval of the Bankruptcy Court, we cannot assure you that the Bankruptcy Court will approve any sales or settlements proposed by us. The Bankruptcy Court also has the authority to oversee and exert control over our ordinary course operations. In addition, the DIP Credit Agreement imposes on us numerous financial requirements and covenants. Failure to satisfy these requirements and covenants could result in an event of default that could cause, absent the receipt of appropriate waivers, an interruption in cash availability, which could cause an interruption of our normal operations. As a result of the restrictions described above, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions may be significantly restricted and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Our financial statements assume we can continue as a “going concern” but our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. In their report dated July 14, 2008, our independent auditors stated that our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is an issue raised as a result of our Chapter 11 filings, recurring losses from operations and periodic working capital deficiencies. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to obtaining approval of our Plan and our ability to obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of our securities. Our continued net operating losses increase the difficulty in meeting such goals and there can be no assurances that such funding methods will prove successful. 12 In addition, because of the Chapter 11 proceedings and the circumstances leading to the Chapter 11 filings, it is possible that we may not be able to continue as a “going concern.” Our continuation as a “going concern” is dependent upon, among other things, confirmation of the Plan, our ability to comply with the terms of the DIP Credit Agreement, our ability to obtain financing upon exit from bankruptcy and our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our obligations. Should we fail to be a going concern, then significant adjustments would be necessary in the carrying value of assets and liabilities, the revenues and expenses reported and the balance sheet classifications used. In addition, the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report do not reflect adjustments to the carrying value of assets or the amount and classification of liabilities that ultimately may be necessary as the result of our reorganization under Chapter 11. Adjustments necessitated by the Plan could materially change the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Our successful reorganization will depend on our ability to retain key employees and successfully implement new strategies. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of Mr. John Carlson, who is our President and Chief Executive officer, and sole director. Loss of the services of Mr. Carlson could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenues, and prospective business. We do not maintain key-man insurance on the life of Mr. Carlson. In addition the successful implementation of our business plan and our ability to successfully consummate a plan of reorganization will be highly dependent upon our senior management. Our ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees is restricted by provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, which limit or prevent our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures intended to motivate key employees to remain with us during the pendency of the bankruptcy cases. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect upon the implementation of our business plan, including our restructuring program, and on our ability to successfully reorganize and emerge from bankruptcy. We have a history of losses that may continue, which may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We have accumulated a deficit of $26,132,279 to March 31, 2008 and incurred net losses applicable to common shareholders of $9,486,503 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008; and $7,765,427 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. We do not assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. There is no assurance that future operations will be profitable. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on us. If we are unable to obtain additional funding, our business operations will be harmed; and if we do obtain additional financing, our then existing shareholders may suffer substantial dilution. We will require additional funds to sustain and expand our oil and gas exploration activities. We anticipate that we will require up to approximately $7,000,000 to fund our continued operations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009. Additional capital will be required to effectively support our operations and to implement our business strategy. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The inability to obtain additional capital will restrict our ability to grow and inhibit our ability to continue to conduct business operations. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we will likely be required to curtail our exploration plans and possibly cease our operations. Any additional equity financing may result in substantial dilution to our then existing shareholders. We have a limited operating history and if we are not successful in continuing to grow our business, then we may have to scale back or even cease our ongoing business operations. We have a limited operating history in the business of oil and gas exploration and must be considered to be an exploration stage company. We have no history of revenues from operations and have no significant tangible assets. 13 We have yet to generate any earnings and there is no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. Our success is significantly dependent on successful lease acquisition, drilling, completion and production programs. Our operations will be subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a developing enterprise and the uncertainties arising from the absence of a significant operating history. We may be unable to locate recoverable reserves or operate on a profitable basis. We are in the exploration stage and potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by enterprises in the exploration stage. If our business plan is not successful, and we are not able to operate profitably, investors may lose some or all of their investment in our Company. As our properties are in the exploration and development stage, there is no assurance that we will establish commercially exploitable discoveries on our properties. Exploration for economic reserves of oil and gas is subject to a number of risk factors. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing oil and/or gas wells. Our properties are in the exploration stage only and are without proven reserves of oil and gas. We may not establish commercially exploitable discoveries on any of our properties; and we may never have profitable operations. We are unsure about the likelihood that we will discover and establish a profitable production of gas from coal seams in the Coos Bay or Chehalis Basin regions. Currently, there is no commercial production of coal in the state of Oregon or Washington. Additionally, no coalbed methane gas production exists either in Washington or Oregon. Coalbed methane gas only accounts for a small percentage of all natural gas production in the United States. The closest coalbed methane production to the Coos Bay and Chehalis Basin occurs in the state of Wyoming. As a result, it is unlikely that we will discover any significant amount of coalbed methane in the Coos Bay or Chehalis Basins or be able to establish wells that will produce a profitable amount of coalbed methane gas. Even if we are able to discover commercially exploitable resources on any of the properties on which we hold an interest, we may never achieve profitability or may not receive an adequate return on invested capital because the potential profitability of oil and gas ventures depends upon factors beyond the control of our Company. The potential profitability of oil and gas properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. For instance, world prices and markets for oil and gas are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to governmental fixing, pegging, controls or any combination of these and other factors, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social and economic environments. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for production and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. In addition, adverse weather conditions can also hinder drilling operations. These changes and events may materially affect our future financial performance. These factors cannot be accurately predicted and the combination of these factors may result in our Company not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. Even if we are able to discover and complete a gas well, there can be no assurance the well will become profitable. We have not yet established a commercially viable coalbed methane gas resource. Even if we are able to do so, a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is impregnated with water or other deleterious substances. In addition, the marketability of oil and gas which may be acquired or discovered will be affected by numerous factors, including the proximity and capacity of oil and gas pipelines and processing equipment, market fluctuations of prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production and environmental protection, all of which could result in greater expenses than revenue generated by the well. 14 The oil and gas industry is highly competitive and there is no assurance that we will be successful in acquiring more leases. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive. We compete with numerous individuals and companies, including many major oil and gas companies that have substantially greater technical, financial and operational resources. Accordingly, there is a high degree of competition for desirable oil and gas leases, for suitable properties for drilling operations, for necessary drilling equipment, as well as for access to funds. We cannot predict if the necessary funds can be raised or that any projected work will be completed. Our budget anticipates our acquiring additional leases for acreage in both the Coos Bay and Chehalis Basins. This acreage may not become available or, if it is available for leasing, we may not be successful in acquiring clear title to the leases. If we do not acquire the leases, we will not be able to completely fulfill our current business plan. Failure to carry out our business plan may reduce the likelihood of achieving profitable operations and may discourage investors from investing in our Company. If these things happen, we may not be able to raise additional funds when we need them and we may have to cease operations. The marketability of natural resources will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control that may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital to be profitable or viable. The marketability of natural resources that may be acquired or discovered by us will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include market fluctuations in oil and gas pricing and demand, the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment, governmental regulations, land lease tenure, land use, regulation concerning the importing and exporting of oil and gas, and environmental protection regulations. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital to be profitable or viable. Oil and gas operations are subject to comprehensive regulations that may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated causing an adverse effect on our Company. Oil and gas operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. Oil and gas operations are also subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations that seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of drilling methods and equipment. Various permits from government bodies are required for drilling operations to be conducted; no assurance can be given that such permits will be granted. Environmental standards imposed by federal, state, or local authorities may be changed, and any such changes may have material adverse effects on our activities. Moreover, compliance with such laws may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, thus causing an adverse effect on our business operations. Additionally, we may be subject to liabilities for pollution or other environmental damages. We believe that our operations comply, in all material respects, with all applicable environmental and health and safety regulations. To date, we have not been required to spend any material amounts on compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations. However, we may be required to do so in the future and this may affect our ability to expand or maintain our operations. Our operating partners maintain insurance coverage customary to the industry; however, we are not fully insured against all possible environmental and health and safety risks. Oil and gas exploration and production activities are subject to certain environmental regulations that may prevent or delay the commencement or continuation of our operations. In general, our oil and gas exploration and production activities are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. Such laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuation of a given operation. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our operations or financial condition to date. Specifically, we are subject to legislation regarding emissions into the environment, water discharges and storage and disposition of hazardous wastes. In addition, legislation has been enacted which requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. However, such laws and regulations are frequently changed and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. 15 Generally, environmental requirements do not appear to affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than other companies in the industry. We believe that our operations comply, in all material respects, with all applicable environmental regulations. Our operating partners maintain insurance coverage customary to the industry; however, we are not fully insured against all possible environmental risks. Exploratory drilling involves many risks and we may become liable for pollution or other liabilities that may have an adverse effect on our financial position. Drilling operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, power outages, labor disruptions, blow-outs, sour gas leakage, fire, inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor, and other risks are involved. We may become subject to liability for pollution or hazards against which we cannot adequately insure or against which we may elect not to insure. Incurring any such liability may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operations. If we fail to remain current in our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13, in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Our shares of common stock are subject to the “penny stock” rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our shares of common stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our shares of common stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require, among other things: that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: obtain financial information and investment experience and investment objectives of the person; and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, deliver a written statement prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market, which sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination and obtain a signed, written agreement from the investor acknowledging receipt of this written statement. 16 Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our shares of common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our shares of common stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our shares of common stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules described above, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the financial Industry Regulatory Authority believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our shares of common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our shares of common stock and have an adverse effect on the market for its shares. ITEM 