Item 1A. Risk Factors The homebuilding industry is cyclical in nature and has experienced downturns, which have in the past and may in the future cause the Company to incur losses in financial and operating results. The Company is affected by the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry which is sensitive to many factors, including fluctuations in general and local economic conditions, interest rates, housing demand, employment levels, levels of new and existing homes for sale, demographic trends, availability of homeowner financing and levels of consumer confidence. In 2009, the markets served by the Company and the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole continued to experience a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available-for-sale. The homebuilding industry has been impacted by a lack of consumer confidence and industrywide softening of demand for new homes, which has resulted in increased supplies of resale and new home inventories. In addition, an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and existing homes, has depressed prices and reduced margins for the sale of new homes. These trends resulted in overall fewer home sales, greater cancellations of home purchase agreements by buyers, higher inventories of unsold homes and the increased use by homebuilders of discounts, incentives, price concessions and other marketing efforts to close home sales in 2009, compared to the past several years. Reflecting these supply and demand trends, the Company experienced a large drop in net orders, a decline in the selling price of new homes sold and a reduction in margins in 2009 relative to prior years. The Company cannot predict how long these market conditions will persist and what affect they might have on the Company's financial and operating performance. Because almost all of the Company's homebuyers finance the purchase of their homes, the terms and availability of mortgage financing can affect the demand for and the ability to complete the purchase of a home, as well as the Company's future operating and financial results. The Company's business and earnings depend on the ability of its homebuyers to obtain financing for the purchase of their homes. Many of the Company's homebuyers must sell their existing homes in order to buy a home from the Company. During 2009 and 2008, the mortgage lending industry as a whole experienced significant instability due to, among other things, defaults on subprime and other loans and a resulting decline in the market value of such loans. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to tightened credit requirements and an increase in indemnity claims for mortgages which were originated and sold by the Company. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused most lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that do not conform to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA or VA standards. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications in turn make it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of new homes or the purchase of existing homes from potential move-up buyers who wish to purchase one of the Company's homes. In general, these developments have resulted in a reduction in demand for the homes sold by the Company and have delayed any general improvement in the housing market. Furthermore, they have resulted in a reduction in demand for the mortgage loans that the Company originates through RMC. If the Company's potential homebuyers or the buyers of the homebuyers' existing homes cannot obtain suitable financing, or if increased indemnity claims are made for mortgages that are originated and sold, the result will have an adverse effect on the Company's operating and financial results and performance. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs or regulation could lower demand for the Company's homes and affect the Company's profitability. Nearly all of the Company's customers finance the purchase of their homes. Prior to 2006, historically low interest rates and the increased availability of specialized mortgage products, including mortgage products requiring no or low down payments, and interest-only and adjustable-rate mortgages, made homebuying more affordable for a number of customers and more available to customers with lower credit scores. 9 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing or of certain mortgage programs, as discussed above, may lead to fewer mortgage loans being provided, higher down payment requirements or monthly mortgage costs, or a combination of the foregoing, and, as a result, reduce demand for our homes. Increased interest rates can also hinder the Company's ability to realize its backlog because the Company's home purchase contracts provide its customers with a financing contingency. Financing contingencies allow customers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event they cannot arrange for adequate financing. As a result, rising interest rates can decrease the Company's home sales and mortgage originations. Any of these factors could have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position. As a result of the turbulence in the credit markets and mortgage finance industry in 2008, the federal government has taken on a significant role in supporting mortgage lending through its conservatorship of the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which purchase home mortgages and mortgage-backed securities originated by mortgage lenders, and its insurance of mortgages originated by lenders through the FHA and VA. FHA-backing of mortgages has recently been particularly important to the mortgage finance industry and to the Company's business. In 2009, 48.5 percent of the Company's homebuyers that chose to finance with RMC purchased a home using a FHA-backed loan. In addition, the Federal Reserve has purchased a sizeable amount of mortgage-backed securities in part to stabilize mortgage interest rates and to support the market for mortgage-backed securities. The availability and affordability of mortgage loans, including the consumer interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected by a curtailment or ceasing of the federal government's mortgage-related programs or policies. The Federal Reserve, for example, has announced that it expects to end its purchases of mortgage-backed securities in early 2010. The FHA recently reported that its cash reserves have fallen below legal requirements due primarily to defaults on mortgages it has insured and, as a result, it has and may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs and/or limit the number of mortgages it insures. Due to growing federal budget deficits, the U.S. Treasury may not be able to continue supporting the mortgage-related activities of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the FHA and the VA at present levels. Because the availability of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA- and VA-backed mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of the Company's homes, any limitations or restrictions in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce its home sales and adversely affect the Company's results of operations, including the income from RMC. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations, under current tax law and policy. If the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws, as some policy makers have discussed, by eliminating or substantially reducing these income tax benefits, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for and/or sales prices of new homes. Additionally, the Company's home sales increased in 2009 in part because of federal and state tax credits made available to certain qualifying homebuyers. These tax credits are expected to be eliminated or curtailed in 2010, which could adversely affect the Company's orders, cancellation rates and results of operations in 2010. The Company is subject to inventory risk for its land, options for land, building lots and housing inventory. The market value of the Company's land, building lots and housing inventories fluctuates as a result of changing market and economic conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can result in losses in poorly performing projects or markets. Changes in economic and market conditions have caused the Company to dispose of land, options for land and housing inventories on a basis that has resulted in a loss and required the Company to write down or reduce the carrying value of its inventory. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company decided not to pursue development and construction in certain areas where it held land or had made option deposits, which resulted in $8.4 million in recorded write-offs of option deposits and preacquisition costs. In addition, market conditions led to recorded land-related impairments on communities and land in the aggregate amount of $193.4 million during the same period. The Company can provide no assurance that it will not need to record additional write-offs in the future. In the course of its business, the Company makes acquisitions of land. Although it employs various measures, including its land approval process and continued review by senior management designed to manage inventory risks, the Company cannot assure that these measures will enable it to avoid or eliminate its inventory risk. 10 Table of Contents Construction costs can fluctuate and impact the Company's margins. The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced significant difficulties, including: shortages of qualified trades people; reliance on local subcontractors who may be inadequately capitalized; shortages of materials; and volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs. The Company may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices either because of market conditions or because it fixes its prices at the time home sales contracts are signed. Because the homebuilding industry is competitive, the business practices of other homebuilders can have an impact on the Company's financial results and cause these results to decline. The residential housing industry is highly competitive. The Company competes in each of its markets with a large number of national, regional and local homebuilding companies. In 2009, this competition caused the Company to adjust selling prices in response to competitive conditions in the markets in which it operates and required the Company to increase selling incentives. We cannot predict whether these measures will be successful or if additional incentives will be made in the future. The Company also competes with other housing alternatives, including existing homes and rental housing. Principal competitive factors in homebuilding are home price, availability of customer financing, design, quality, reputation, relationship with developers, accessibility of subcontractors, and availability and location of homesites. Any of the foregoing factors could have an adverse impact on the Company's financial performance and results of operations. The Company's financial services segment competes with other mortgage bankers to arrange financing for homebuyers. Principal competitive factors include interest rates, fees and other features of mortgage loan products available to the consumer. Because the Company's business is subject to various regulatory and environmental limitations, it may not be able to conduct its business as planned. The Company's homebuilding segments are subject to various local, state and federal laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, building design, construction, stormwater permitting and discharge and similar matters, as well as open space, wetlands and environmentally protected areas. These include local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area, as well as other municipal or city land planning restrictions, requirements or limitations. The Company may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to regulatory compliance, municipal appeals and other government planning processes in any of the areas in which it operates. These factors could result in delays or increased cost of operations. With respect to originating, processing, selling and servicing mortgage loans, the Company's financial services segment is subject to the rules and regulations of the FHA, FHLMC, FNMA, VA and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mortgage origination activities are further subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and their associated regulations. These and other federal and state statutes and regulations prohibit discrimination and establish underwriting guidelines which include provisions for audits, inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers, fix maximum loan amounts and require the disclosure of certain information concerning credit and settlement costs. The Company is required to submit audited financial statements annually, and each agency or other entity has its own financial requirements. The Company's affairs are also subject to examination by these entities at all times to assure compliance with applicable regulations, policies and procedures. The Company's ability to grow the business and operations of the Company depends to a significant degree upon the Company's ability to access capital on favorable terms. The ability to access capital on favorable terms is an important factor in growing the Company's business and operations in a profitable manner. In December 2007, Moody's lowered the Company's debt rating to non-investment grade with a negative outlook, and Standard & Poor's ("S&P's") also reduced the Company's investment grade rating to non-investment grade in May 2008. The Company received additional downgrades from these agencies in 2008. In 2009, Moody's and S&P's increased the Company's rating outlook to stable from negative. The loss of an investment grade rating affects the cost, availability and terms of credit available to the Company and may make it more difficult and costly for it to access the debt capital markets for funds that may be required to implement its business plans. Natural disasters may have a significant impact on the Company's business. The climates and geology of many of the states in which the Company operates present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, tornadoes, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, its business in those states may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents The Company's net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if it experiences an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. The Company has experienced and continues to experience substantial operating losses, including realized losses for tax purposes from sales of inventory and land previously written down for financial statement purposes, which would produce net operating losses and unrealized losses that may reduce potential future federal income tax obligations. It may also generate net operating loss carryforwards in future years. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50.0 percent of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5.0 percent or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. If the Company undergoes an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving its common stock, including purchases or sales of stock between 5.0 percent stockholders, the Company's ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards and to recognize certain built-in losses would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of the Company's net operating loss carryforwards could expire before it would be able to use them. The Company's inability to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards could have a negative impact on its financial position and results of operations. In late 2008 and in early 2009, the Company adopted a shareholder rights plan, and amended its charter to implement certain share transfer restrictions, in order to seek to preserve stockholder value and the value of certain tax assets primarily associated with net loss carryforwards and built-in losses under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The shareholder rights plan and the charter provisions are intended to prevent share transfers which could cause a loss of these tax assets. The Company can provide no assurance that the rights plan and the new charter provision will protect the Company's ability to use its net operating losses and unrealized losses to reduce potential future federal income tax obligations. (See Note K, "Common Stock.") In addition, the Company's stockholders approved an Amendment to its Articles of Incorporation at its 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to preserve the value of certain tax assets associated with net operating loss carryforwards under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Because this report contains forward-looking statements, it may not prove to be accurate. This report and other Company releases and filings with the SEC may contain forward-looking statements. The Company generally identifies forward-looking statements using words like "believe," "intend," "expect," "may," "should," "plan," "project," "contemplate," "anticipate," "target," "estimate," "foresee," "goal," "likely," "will" or similar statements. Because these statements reflect its current views concerning future events, they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risks and uncertainties identified in this report. Actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in these forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 