Risk Factors Changes in general business and economic conditions may adversely impact ANZ’s results The majority of ANZ’s business is conducted in Australia and New Zealand, so its performance is influenced by the level and cyclical nature of business activity in these countries, which, in turn are affected by both domestic and international economic and political events. These events and conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, relative changes in foreign exchange rates and the strength of the Australian and New Zealand economies. For example, a general economic downturn, a correction in the housing market, a decrease in immigration, an increase in unemployment, a significant increase in oil prices or other events that negatively impact household and/or corporate incomes could decrease the demand for ANZ’s loan and non-loan products and services and increase the number of customers who fail to pay interest or repay principal on their loans. Australian and New Zealand economic conditions may also be affected by geo-political instability, including, among other factors, actual or potential conflict and terrorism. ANZ’s future performance may also be affected by the economic conditions of other regions in which operations are conducted. 5 Changes in fiscal and monetary policies may adversely impact ANZ’s results The Reserve Bank of Australia (“RBA”) and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (“RBNZ”) regulate the supply of money and credit in Australia and New Zealand (respectively). Their policies determine the cost of funds to ANZ for lending and investing and the return that the Group will earn on those loans and investments. Both of these impact ANZ’s net interest margin and can materially affect the value of financial instruments held by ANZ, such as debt securities. The policies of the RBA and the RBNZ can also affect ANZ’s borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in RBA and RBNZ policies are not easy to predict or anticipate. Regulatory changes may adversely impact ANZ’s results The Group includes regulated entities that are deposit-taking institutions, which are regulated in Australia, New Zealand and in the other countries in which ANZ operates. This regulation varies from country to country but generally is designed to protect depositors and the banking system as a whole, not holders of ANZ’s securities. The Australian Government and its agencies, including the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (“APRA”) the RBA, and other financial industry regulatory bodies have supervisory oversight of ANZ. Our failure to comply with the laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by these regulatory agencies and cause damage to ANZ’s reputation. The New Zealand Government and its agencies, including the RBNZ, have supervisory oversight of ANZ’s New Zealand business. The RBNZ approved the acquisition of The National Bank of New Zealand (“NBNZ”) in December 2003, subject to various ongoing regulatory and consent requirements. To the extent that these regulatory and consent requirements limit our operations or flexibility, they could adversely affect our profitability and prospectus. In addition, these regulatory agencies frequently review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to laws, regulations or policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of laws, regulations or policies, could affect ANZ substantially. These may include changing required levels of bank liquidity and capital adequacy, limiting the types of financial services and products that can be offered and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, as well as changes to prudential regulatory requirements. Competition may adversely impact ANZ’s results, especially in Australia and New Zealand The financial services sector in which ANZ operates is highly competitive and could become even more so, particularly in those segments that are considered to provide higher growth prospects. Factors contributing to this include industry deregulation, mergers, changes in customers’ needs and preferences, entry of new participants, development of new distribution and service methods and increased diversification of products by competitors. For example, mergers between banks and other types of financial services companies create entities which can offer virtually any type of banking or financial service. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic payment systems, mortgages and credit cards. In addition, banks in different jurisdictions are subject to different levels of regulation and some may have lower cost structures. The effect of competitive market conditions may have a material adverse effect on ANZ’s financial performance and position, especially in Australia and New Zealand. Application of and changes to accounting policies may adversely impact ANZ’s results Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgement in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so that not only do they comply with generally accepted accounting principles but they also reflect the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial position and results of operations. In some cases, management must select an accounting policy or method from two or more alternatives, any of which might comply with generally accepted accounting principles and be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in us reporting materially different outcomes than would have been reported under another alternative. For reporting periods commencing October 1, 2005, the Group is required to prepare financial statements using Australian Equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards (AIFRS), issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board. On 1 October 2005, the Group commenced application of AIFRS, covering all financial systems and records. The Group will report for the first time in compliance with AIFRS when the results for the half year ending 31 March 2006 are released. 6 The Group is required to prepare an opening balance sheet in accordance with AIFRS as at 1 October 2004. Most accounting policy adjustments to retrospectively apply AIFRS will be made against retained earnings in this opening balance sheet. However, transitional adjustments relating to those standards for which comparatives are not required will only be made on 1 October 2005. The standards are AASB 132: ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’, AASB 139: ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, and AASB 4: ‘Insurance Contracts’. The impact of transition to AIFRS are outlined in Note 55 of the Financial Report. ANZ is subject to credit risk, which may adversely impact the Group’s results As a financial institution, ANZ is exposed to the risks associated with extending credit to other parties. Less favorable business or economic conditions, whether generally or in a specific industry sector or geography, could cause customers or counterparties to experience adverse financial consequences, thereby exposing the Bank to the increased risk that those customers or counterparties will fail to honor the terms of their loans or agreements. In addition, in assessing whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, ANZ relies on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. ANZ also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. The Group’s financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent that it relies on information or financial statements that are inaccurate or materially misleading. As a result of the potential for loss arising from the failure of customers or counterparties to meet their contractual obligations, ANZ holds provisions to cover loan losses. The amount of these provisions is determined by assessing, based on current information, the extent of impairment inherent within the current lending portfolio. However, if the information upon which the assessment of risk proves to be inaccurate, the provisions made for loan loss may be inappropriate, which could have a material effect on the Group’s results and operations. Following ANZ’s transition to AIFRS, a change in methodology in calculating the allowance for loan losses has arisen. Refer to Note 55 of the Financial Report for discussion and the impacts of this change. ANZ is subject to operational risk, which may adversely impact the Group’s results Operational risk relates to the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events, which impact ANZ’s operating business. Operational risk includes the risks arising from process error, fraud, systems failure, failure of security and physical protection systems, customer services, staff skills and performance and product development and maintenance. ANZ is highly dependent on information systems and technology and there is a risk that these might fail. From time to time, ANZ will undertake major projects and there are operating risks in the design and implementation of these projects. Further, ANZ’s exposure to potential systemic events or failings in the international financial services sector may also be a source of operational risk. ANZ is subject to market risk (including foreign exchange risk) and liquidity risk, which may adversely impact the Group’s results Market risk relates to the risk of loss arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, prices of commodities, debt securities and other financial contracts including derivatives. Losses arising from these risks may have a material adverse effect on ANZ. ANZ is also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that ANZ has insufficient funds and are unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due, including obligations to repay deposits and maturing wholesale debt. 7 Litigation and contingent liabilities may adversely impact our results ANZ may from time to time be subject to material litigation and other contingent liabilities, which, if they crystallize, may adversely impact our results. Details regarding ANZ’s contingent liabilities are contained in note 47 of the 2005 Financial Report. For example (these are illustrative examples, please refer to the 2005 Financial Report for the full disclosures): • We face potential exposure in respect of litigation relating to a breach of the Indian Foreign Exchange Regulation Act 1973 (“Indian FERA”). This exposure arises from our past ownership of ANZ Grindlays Bank Limited (“Grindlays”). In 1991, certain amounts were transferred from non-convertible Indian Rupee accounts maintained with Grindlays in India. These transactions may not have complied with Indian FERA. Grindlays, on its own initiative, brought these transactions to the attention of the Reserve Bank of India. The Indian authorities have served notices on Grindlays and certain of its officers in India that could lead to possible penalties. Grindlays has commenced proceedings in the courts contesting the validity of these notices. Based on advice from the Bank’s Indian lawyers, we believe we maintain adequate provisions to cover such exposure. • ANZ in New Zealand is being audited by the New Zealand Inland Revenue Department (“IRD”) as part of normal revenue authority procedures, with a particular focus on certain kinds of structured finance transactions. The IRD has issued Notices of Proposed Adjustment (the “Notices”) in respect of some of those structured finance transactions. The Notices are not tax assessments and do not establish a tax liability, but are the first step in a formal disputes process. In addition, some tax assessments have been received. Should the same position be adopted by the IRD on the remaining transactions of that kind as reflected in the notices and tax assessments received, the maximum potential tax liability would be approximately NZD432 million (including interest tax effected) for the period to September 30, 2005. Of that maximum potential liability, approximately NZD124 million is subject to tax indemnities provided by Lloyds TSB Bank PLC under the agreement by which ANZ acquired NBNZ and which relate to transactions undertaken by NBNZ before December 2003. Based on external advice, the ANZ has assessed the likely progress of this issue, and believes that it holds appropriate provisions. Other than disclosed in the 2005 Financial Report, there are no legal or arbitration proceedings (including any such proceedings which are pending or threatened of which we are aware) against ANZ that may have or have had in the previous 12 months a significant effect on ANZ’s financial position. Acquisition risk may adversely impact ANZ’s results ANZ regularly examines a range of corporate opportunities with a view to determining whether those opportunities will enhance the financial performance and position. Any corporate opportunity that is pursued could, for a variety of reasons, turn out to have a material adverse effect on the Group. The successful implementation of the ANZ corporate strategy will depend on a range of factors including potential funding strategies and challenges associated with integrating and adding value to a business, which is acquired. The operating performance or capital structure may also be affected by these corporate opportunities and there is a risk that ANZ’s credit rating may be placed on credit watch or downgraded if these opportunities are pursued. Currency of Presentation, Exchange Rates and Certain Definitions Currency of Presentation The Company, together with its subsidiaries, publishes consolidated financial statements in Australian dollars. In this Annual Report, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires, references to “US$”, “USD” and “US dollars” are to United States dollars and references to “$”, “AUD” and “A$” are to Australian dollars. For the convenience of the reader, this Annual Report contains translations of certain Australian dollar amounts into US dollars at specified rates. These translations should not be construed as representations that the Australian dollar amounts actually represent such US dollar amounts or could be converted into US dollars at the rate indicated. Unless otherwise stated, the translations of Australian dollars into US dollars have been made at the rate of USD0.7643 = $1.00, the Noon Buying Rate in New York City for cable transfers in Australian dollars as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the “Noon Buying Rate”) on September 30, 2005. 8 Exchange Rates For each of the periods indicated, the high, low, average and period-end Noon Buying Rates for Australian dollars were: USD per $1.00 Year ended September 30, High Low Average Close 2001 0.5712 0.4828 0.5182 0.4946 2002 0.5748 0.4923 0.5329 0.5429 2003 0.6823 0.5422 0.6131 0.6797 2004 0.7979 0.6814 0.7287 0.7244 2005 0.7974 0.7207 0.7685 0.7643 Monthly periods June 2005 0.7792 0.7498 0.7667 0.7618 July 2005 0.7661 0.7403 0.7524 0.7594 August 2005 0.7739 0.7469 0.7614 0.7514 September 2005 0.7731 0.7537 0.7651 0.7643 October 2005 0.7630 0.7468 0.7535 0.7480 November 2005 0.7451 0.7267 0.7353 0.7394 The average for annual periods is calculated from the Noon Buying Rate on the last day of each month during the period. On December 9, 2005, the Noon Buying Rate was USD0.7521 per $1.00. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, 36% (2004: 33%) of our operating income was derived from overseas operations and was denominated principally in New Zealand dollars (“NZ$” or “NZD”), US dollars (“US$” or “USD”), British pounds sterling (“£” or “GBP”) and European Monetary Union Euro (“€” of “EUR”). Movements in foreign currencies against the Australian dollar can therefore affect ANZ’s earnings through the re-translation of overseas profits to Australian dollars. Based on exchange rates applied to convert overseas profits and losses from September 2001 to September 2005, the Australian dollar moved against these currencies as follows (refer also Note 54 to the Financial Report): Years ended September 30 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 EURO +1 % +6 % -3 % -1 % -7 % GBP +2 % +6 % +6 % 0 % -7 % NZD -4 % +1 % -7 % -4 % -1 % USD +5 % +19 % +15 % +2 % -14 % We monitor our exposure to revenues, expenses and invested capital denominated in currencies other than Australian dollars. These currency exposures are hedged as considered necessary. Certain Definitions Our fiscal year ends on September 30. As used throughout this Annual Report, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires, the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 is referred to as fiscal year 2005, and other fiscal years are referred to in a corresponding manner. 9 