Risk Factors Changes in general business and economic conditions may adversely impact ANZ’s results As the majority of our business is conducted in Australia and New Zealand, ANZ’s performance is influenced by the level and cyclical nature of business activity in these countries, which, in turn are affected by both domestic and international economic and political events. These events and conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, relative changes in foreign exchange rates and the strength of the Australian and New Zealand economies. For example, a general economic downturn, a correction in the housing market, an increase in unemployment or other events that negatively impact household and/or corporate incomes could decrease the demand for ANZ’s loan and non-loan products and services and increase the number of customers who fail to pay interest or repay principal on their loans. Australian and New Zealand economic conditions may also be affected by geo-political instability, including, among other factors, actual or potential conflict and terrorism. ANZ’s future performance may also be affected by the economic conditions of other regions in which operations are conducted. In addition, an appreciation in the Australian or New Zealand dollar relative to other currencies could negatively impact Australian or New Zealand agricultural exports and international tourism. Climatological events such as droughts, geological events such as volcanic activity or other extrinsic events such as a bird flu pandemic could have a negative effect on the ability of our customers to pay interest or repay principal on their loans. 4 Changes in monetary policies may adversely impact ANZ’s results The Reserve Bank of Australia (“RBA”) and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (“RBNZ”) regulate the supply of money and credit in Australia and New Zealand (respectively). Their policies help determine the cost of funds to ANZ for lending and investing and the return that the Group will earn on those loans and investments. Both of these impact ANZ’s net interest margin and can materially affect the value of financial instruments held by ANZ, such as debt securities. The policies of the RBA and the RBNZ can also affect ANZ’s borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Regulatory changes may adversely impact ANZ’s results The Group includes regulated entities that are deposit-taking institutions, which are regulated in Australia, New Zealand and in the other countries (including the United Kingdom and the United States of America) in which ANZ has operations, trades or raises funds or in respect of which ANZ has some other connection. This regulation varies from country to country but generally is designed to protect depositors and the banking system as a whole, not holders of ANZ’s securities. The Australian Government and its agencies, including the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (“APRA”), the RBA, and other financial industry regulatory bodies have supervisory oversight of ANZ. The New Zealand Government and its agencies, including the RBNZ, have supervisory oversight of ANZ’s New Zealand business. The Group is also regulated by United States governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board, the US Department of Treasury and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and United Kingdom agencies, including the Financial Services Authority, and other financial industry regulatory bodies in those countries and in other countries in which the Group has operations, trades or raises funds or in respect of which the Group has some other connection. A failure to comply with any laws, regulations or policies in any of those jurisdictions could result in sanctions by these or other regulatory agencies and cause damage to the reputation of ANZ which could affect the ANZ substantially. To the extent that these regulatory and consent requirements and any other regulatory requirements limit the operations and flexibility of ANZ, they could adversely affect the profitability and prospects of ANZ. In addition, these regulatory agencies frequently review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to laws, regulations or policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of laws, regulations or policies, could affect ANZ substantially. These may include changing required levels of bank liquidity and capital adequacy, limiting the types of financial services and products that can be offered and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, as well as changes to prudential regulatory requirements. Competition may adversely impact ANZ’s results, especially in Australia and New Zealand The financial services sector in which ANZ operates is highly competitive and could become even more so, particularly in those segments which are perceived as providing higher growth prospects. Factors contributing to this include industry deregulation, mergers and acquisitions, changes in customers’ needs and preferences, entry of new participants, development of new distribution and service methods and increased diversification of products by competitors. For example, changes in the financial services sector have made it possible for non-bank financial institutions to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic payment systems, mortgages and credit cards. In addition, banks in different jurisdictions are subject to different levels of regulation and some may have lower cost structures. The effect of competitive market conditions may have a material adverse effect on ANZ’s financial performance and position, especially in Australia and New Zealand. For example, increasing competition for customers can lead to a compression in our net interest margin, or increased advertising and related expenses to attract and retain customers. Application of and changes to accounting policies may adversely impact ANZ’s results Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgement in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so that not only do they comply with generally accepted accounting principles but they also reflect the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial position and results of operations. However, these accounting policies may be applied inaccurately resulting in a misstatement of our financial position and results of operations. In some cases, management must select an accounting policy or method from two or more alternatives, any of which might comply with generally accepted accounting principles and be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in us reporting materially different outcomes than would have been reported under another alternative. For reporting periods commencing October 1, 2005, the Group is required to prepare financial statements using Australian Equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards (“AIFRS”), issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board. 5 AIFRS includes changes to loan loss provisioning and other accounting standards. These changes can be expected to result in increased volatility of earnings. As our business is conducted in several different currencies, mainly the Australian and New Zealand dollars, our business may be largely affected by a change in the currency exchange rates. Additionally, as the annual report is prepared and stated in Australian dollars, any appreciation in the Australian dollar against other currencies in which we earn revenues (particularly the New Zealand dollar) may adversely affect our reported earnings. ANZ is subject to credit risk, which may adversely impact ANZ’s results As a financial institution, ANZ is exposed to the risks associated with extending credit to other parties. Less favorable business or economic conditions, whether generally or in a specific industry sector or geographic region, could cause customers to experience an adverse financial situation, thereby exposing ANZ to the increased risk that those customers will fail to meet their obligations in accordance with agreed terms. In addition, in assessing whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers, ANZ relies on information provided by or on behalf of customers, including financial statements and other financial information. ANZ may also rely on the representations of customers as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. ANZ’s financial performance could be negatively impacted to the extent that it relies on information that is inaccurate or materially misleading. Due to the potential for loss arising from the failure of customers to meet their contractual obligations, ANZ holds provisions to cover credit impairment. The amount of these provisions is determined by assessing, based on current information, the extent of impairment inherent within the current lending portfolio. However, if the information upon which the assessment is made proves to be inaccurate, the provisions made for credit impairment may be inappropriate, which could have a material effect on ANZ’s financial performance. Where there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred just prior to balance date that is not reflected in the Risk Grading Framework, ANZ may adjust the provision for credit impairment to allow for the estimated impact of the loss event. Scenario modeling will be used to support experienced judgment in estimating the adjustment required. The collective provision for credit impairment currently includes a scenario modeling adjustment to allow for continued uncertainty and expected levels of default due to sustained materially higher oil prices. Further information in respect of the estimation and unwind of the impact of higher oil prices is provided in the Critical Estimates and Judgements in Applying Accounting Policies section. A weakening of the real estate markets in Australia or New Zealand may adversely affect ANZ’s results Residential and rural property lending, together with property finance, including real estate development and investment property finance, constitute important business to ANZ. As of September 30, 2006, residential loans represented approximately 53% of our total loans. A decrease in property valuations could decrease the amount of new mortgages ANZ is able to write or increase the losses ANZ may experience from existing mortgages, which, in either case, could materially and adversely impact ANZ’s financial condition and result of operations. ANZ is subject to operational risk, which may adversely impact the Group’s results Operational risk refers to risks arising from day-to-day operational activities which may result in direct or indirect loss. These losses may result from both internal and external events. Operational risk includes: process error, fraud, systems failure and breach of regulation or legislation; failure of security, physical protection and recovery systems; customer services, staff skills and performance; and product development, delivery and maintenance. Similarly, there are operational risks in the management, design and implementation of major projects. ANZ is also exposed to failings by third party providers, including outsourcing, to natural disasters, political, security and social events and to failings in the financial services sector. ANZ is subject to market risk (including foreign exchange risk) and liquidity risk, which may adversely impact the Group’s results Market risk relates to the risk of loss arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, prices of commodities, debt securities and other financial contracts, including derivatives. Losses arising from these risks may have a material adverse effect on ANZ. ANZ is also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that ANZ has insufficient funds and is unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due, including obligations to repay deposits and maturing wholesale debt. 6 Failure of information technology systems could significantly interrupt ANZ’s business. ANZ is highly dependent on information systems and technology and there is a risk that these, or the services they use or are dependent on, might fail. Most of ANZ’s daily operations are computer based. Information technology systems are essential to maintaining effective communications with customers. The exposure to systems risks includes: complete or partial failure of information technology systems; inadequacy of internal or third party information technology systems due to, among other things, failure to keep pace with industry developments; and capacity of the existing systems to effectively accommodate planned growth and integrate existing and future acquisitions and alliances. Any failure in these systems could result in business interruption, the loss of customers, damaged reputation and weakening of ANZ’s competitive position and could adversely impact ANZ’s business and have a material adverse effect on ANZ’s financial condition and loss of operations. Litigation and contingent liabilities may adversely impact our results ANZ may from time to time be subject to material litigation and other contingent liabilities, which, if they crystallize, may adversely impact our results. Details regarding ANZ’s contingent liabilities are contained in Note 45 of the 2006 Financial Report. There is a risk that these contingencies may be larger than anticipated or that additional litigation or other contingent liabilities will arise. Acquisition risk may adversely impact ANZ’s results ANZ regularly examines a range of corporate opportunities including material acquisitions and dispositions, with a view to determining whether those opportunities will enhance its financial performance and position. Any corporate opportunity that is pursued could, for a variety of reasons, turn out to have a material adverse effect on the Group. The successful implementation of the ANZ corporate strategy will depend on a range of factors including potential funding strategies and challenges associated with integrating and adding value to an acquired business. The operating performance or capital structure may also be affected by these corporate opportunities and there is a risk that ANZ’s credit rating may be placed on credit watch or downgraded if these opportunities are pursued. Currency of Presentation, Exchange Rates and Certain Definitions Currency of Presentation The Company, together with its subsidiaries, publishes consolidated financial statements in Australian dollars. In this Annual Report, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires, references to “US$”, “USD” and “US dollars” are to United States dollars and references to “$”, “AUD” and “A$” are to Australian dollars. For the convenience of the reader, this Annual Report contains translations of certain Australian dollar amounts into US dollars at specified rates. These translations should not be construed as representations that the Australian dollar amounts actually represent such US dollar amounts or could be converted into US dollars at the rate indicated. Unless otherwise stated, the translations of Australian dollars into US dollars have been made at the rate of USD0.7461 = $1.00, the Noon Buying Rate in New York City for cable transfers in Australian dollars as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the “Noon Buying Rate”) on September 29, 2006. Exchange Rates For each of the periods indicated, the high, low, average and period-end Noon Buying Rates for Australian dollars were: USD per $1.00 Year ended September 30, High Low Average Close 2002 0.5748 0.4923 0.5329 0.5429 2003 0.6823 0.5422 0.6131 0.6797 2004 0.7979 0.6814 0.7287 0.7244 2005 0.7974 0.7207 0.7685 0.7643 2006 0.7781 0.7056 0.7473 0.7461 Monthly periods June 2006 0.7527 0.7284 0.7399 0.7423 July 2006 0.7664 0.7407 0.7528 0.7664 August 2006 0.7699 0.7568 0.7631 0.7630 September 2006 0.7704 0.7461 0.7459 0.7461 October 2006 0.7743 0.7434 0.7544 0.7743 November 2006 0.7896 0.7629 0.7727 0.7896 The average for annual periods is calculated from the Noon Buying Rate on the last day of each month during the period. 7 On December 14, 2006, the Noon Buying Rate was US $0.7894 per $1.00. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, 34% (2005: 35%) of our operating income was derived from New Zealand and overseas operations and was denominated principally in New Zealand dollars (“NZ$” or “NZD”), US dollars (“US$” or “USD”), British pounds sterling (“£” or “GBP”) and European Monetary Union Euro (“€” of “EUR”). Movements in foreign currencies against the Australian dollar can therefore affect ANZ’s earnings through the re-translation of overseas profits to Australian dollars. Based on exchange rates applied to convert overseas profits and losses from September 2002 to September 2006, the Australian dollar moved against these currencies as follows (refer also Note 50 to the Financial Report): Years ended September 30 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 EURO +1 % +1 % +6 % -3 % -1 % GBP 0 % +2 % +6 % +6 % 0 % NZD +5 % -4 % +1 % -7 % -4 % USD -2 % +5 % +19 % +15 % +2 % We monitor our exposure to revenues, expenses and invested capital denominated in currencies other than Australian dollars. These currency exposures are hedged in accordance with established hedging policies. Certain Definitions Our fiscal year ends on September 30. As used throughout this Annual Report, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires, the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, and other fiscal years are referred to in a corresponding manner. Our audited financial results are found in our 2006 Financial Report. Our Pacific Banking practice includes operations in 11 countries in the South Pacific region; America Samoa, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, New Caledonia, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Timor Leste, Tonga and Vanuatu. Results are analyzed by three geographic regions; Australia, New Zealand and Overseas. The Overseas region consists of countries other than Australia and New Zealand. The difference between our 2005 AIFRS information (where comparatives affected by these three standards are not restated) and comparative information for 2005 as if these three standards had been applied has been quantified in order to make ANZ’s 2005 information more comparable with reported 2006 AIFRS results and is referred to as the “AIFRS 2005 Adjustments”. 8 