Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other financial and bank holding companies, we are subject to a number of risks, some of which are outside of our control, including: (1) credit risks; (2) market risks; (3) liquidity risks; and, (4) operational risks. In addition, investors who purchase shares of our common stock are subject to (5) investment risks. Readers should consider carefully the following important factors in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. (1) Credit Risks: We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment. We manage the credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions, and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. Our credit standards, the nature of our loan portfolio and on-going process of credit management and assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans and extending loan commitments and letters of credit. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize “in-market” lending. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques designed to ensure that loans adhere to corporate policy and problem loans are promptly identified. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, which we believe are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance and the value of available collateral, monitoring loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These procedures provide us with the information to implement policy adjustments where necessary and to take proactive corrective actions. Our credit standards, procedures and policies may not prevent us from incurring substantial credit losses. Our concentrations of real estate loans could subject us to increased risks in the event real estate values decline due to an economic downturn, a deterioration in the real estate markets or other causes. At February 29, 2008, we had approximately $2.8 billion of commercial, agricultural, construction, residential and other real estate loans representing approximately 65% of our total loan portfolio. An economic downturn or a deterioration in the real estate markets could have an adverse effect on the collateral value for many of our loans and could affect the repayment ability of many of our borrowers. In addition, these factors could reduce the amount of loans we make to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact our results of operations. A significant decline in real estate values could also lead to higher charge-offs in the event of defaults in our real estate loan portfolio. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural or manmade disaster in our market areas could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans and negatively impact our results of operations. Many of our loans are to commercial borrowers, which have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans. Commercial loans, including commercial real estate loans, are often larger and involve greater risks than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans is more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrowers’ ability to make repayment from their employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the commercial venture. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. At February 29, 2008, we had approximately $2.0 billion of commercial loans, including commercial real estate loans, representing approximately 46% of our total loan portfolio. Our loans and deposits are focused in Montana, Wyoming and South Dakota. Adverse economic conditions in these states could adversely impact our results from operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our customers with loan and/or deposit balances are located predominantly in Montana, Wyoming and South Dakota. Because of the concentration of loans and deposits in these states, in the event of adverse economic conditions in Montana, Wyoming or South Dakota, we could experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if the loans were more geographically diversified. Adverse economic conditions, including inflation, recession and unemployment, and other factors, such as political or business developments, natural disasters, wide-spread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other unfavorable conditions and events that affect these states, could -10- Table of Contents reduce demand for credit or fee-based products and may delay or prevent borrowers from repaying their loans. Adverse conditions and other factors identified above could also negatively affect real estate and other collateral values, interest rate levels, and the availability of credit to refinance loans at or prior to maturity. These results could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If we experience loan losses in excess of estimated amounts, our earnings will be adversely affected. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of our loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly and adversely affected. As of February 29, 2008, our allowance for loan losses was $68 million which represented 1.57% of total outstanding loans. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. Future adjustments to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. (2) Market Risks: Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our net interest income, may weaken demand for our products and services and harm our results of operations and cash flows. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also adversely affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including mortgage servicing rights, (iii) our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets and (iv) the average duration of our mortgage-backed investment securities portfolio. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could harm our results of operations and cash flows. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing customers to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on mortgage loans sold to be lower than originally recognized. If this happens, we may need to write down our mortgage servicing rights asset faster, which would accelerate expense and lower our earnings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. (3) Liquidity Risks: We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers unless we obtain sufficient liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. We regularly monitor our overall liquidity position to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Potential alternative sources of liquidity include Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements. We maintain a portfolio of investment securities that may be used as a secondary source of liquidity to the extent the securities are not pledged for collateral. We believe there are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources include the drawing of additional funds on our revolving term loan, the sale of loans, the ability to acquire national market, non-core deposits, the issuance of additional collateralized borrowings such as Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, advances, the issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of equity securities. We may also be able to borrow through the Federal Reserve’s discount window. Without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers. -11- Table of Contents Dividends from our subsidiaries account for most of our revenue. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends due to legal or regulatory limitations could adversely affect our liquidity and operations and our ability to service debt, redeem stock and pay dividends. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from management fees and dividends paid by our subsidiaries. These dividends are our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our subsidiary banks and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations and our ability to service debt, redeem stock and pay dividends. The Federal Reserve, the State of Montana, Division of Banking and Financial Institutions, and the State of South Dakota, Department of Revenue & Regulation, Division of Banking, are the primary regulatory agencies that examine us and our activities. Under certain circumstances, including any determination that the activities of the Bank constitute an unsafe and unsound banking practice, the regulatory agencies have the authority by statute to restrict the Bank’s ability to transfer assets and make distributions to us as the holding company. Under applicable statutes and regulations, dividends may be paid out of current or retained net profits, but prior approval of the regulatory agencies is required for the payment of a dividend if the total of all dividends declared by the Bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of its net profits for the year combined with its undistributed net profits for the two preceding years. Payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if the Bank became “under-capitalized” for purposes of regulatory guidelines. “Under-capitalized” is currently defined as having a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%, or a core capital, or leverage, ratio of less than 4.0%. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. Failure to meet our debt covenants could result in our debt becoming immediately due and payable, which could adversely impact our results from operations, cash flows and financial condition. In conjunction with the First Western acquisition, we incurred debt of $159 million payable to various lenders under various debt agreements. The debt agreements contain covenants that, among other things, establish minimum capital and financial performance ratios, and place restrictions on indebtedness, non-performing assets, the allowance for loan losses, the redemption and issuance of common stock and the amount of dividends payable to shareholders. Failure to comply with the debt covenants could result in the debt becoming immediately due and payable and the subsequent liquidation of our assets in satisfaction of the debt. (4) Operational Risks: We have significant competition in both attracting and retaining deposits and in originating loans. Competition is intense in most of our markets. We compete on price, product availability, customer service and responsiveness to customer needs with other banks and financial services companies such as brokerage firms, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies and credit unions. Competition could intensify in the future as a result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of products and services from larger, multi-state financial holding companies and their bank and non-bank subsidiaries, greater technological developments in the industry, and banking reform. We may become liable for environmental remediation and other costs on repossessed properties, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. If hazardous or toxic substances are found on these properties, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure actions on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. -12- Table of Contents Our information systems may experience a breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. A breach in the security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, investment and other information systems. A breach of the security of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. A failure of the technology we use could harm our business. We depend heavily upon data processing, software, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to breaches of security or other technological difficulties or failures. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, i_Tech, provides technology services to the Banks and other non-affiliated customers. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted, and we could be exposed to claims from customers and related legal actions. Any of these results could harm our business. We may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our systems of internal operating controls may not be effective. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide us with critical information used to manage our business. These systems are not foolproof, and are subject to various inherent limitations, including cost, judgments used in decision-making, assumptions about the likelihood of future events, the soundness of our systems, the possibility of human error, and the risk of fraud. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions and the risk that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate over time. Because of these limitations, any system of internal operating controls may not be successful in preventing all errors or fraud or in making all material information known in a timely manner to the appropriate levels of management. From time to time, losses from operational malfunctions or fraud may occur. These losses are recorded as noninterest expense. Any future losses related to internal operating control systems could have an adverse effect on our business. We may encounter unforeseen difficulties in combining First Western operations with our own operations, including unanticipated integration problems, business disruptions and dilution of shareholder value. The acquisition of First Western exposes us to various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things, (i) potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired entity; (ii) exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired entity; (iii) difficulty and expense associated with integration of the operations and personnel of the acquired entity; (iv) potential disruption of our business; (v) potential diversion of the management team’s time and attention from the our existing operations; and (vi) the possible loss of key employees or customers of the acquired entity. The First Western acquisition involved the payment of a premium over book and market values, which could result in dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from the First Western acquisition, or the impairment of goodwill recognized in connection with the First Western acquisition, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. -13- Table of Contents We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management skills of our executive officers and directors, many of whom have held officer and director positions with us for many years. The loss or unavailability of key executives, including Lyle R. Knight, President and Chief Executive Officer, Terrill R. Moore, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or Edward Garding, Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, could harm our ability to operate our business or execute our business strategy. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees to operate our business effectively and low unemployment rates may increase our labor costs. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in our markets. Current low unemployment rates in Montana, Wyoming, South Dakota and the surrounding region may increase labor costs and make it difficult to attract and retain qualified employees at all management and staffing levels. Failure to attract and retain employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel could adversely impact our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy. Furthermore, low unemployment rates may lead to significant increases in salaries, wages and employee benefits expenses as we compete for qualified, skilled employees. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure and other business interruptions could negatively impact our business. Our operations depend upon vital infrastructure components including, among other things, transportation systems, power grids and telecommunication systems. A disruption in our operations resulting from failure of transportation and telecommunication systems, loss of power, interruption of other utilities, natural disaster, fire, global climate changes, computer hacking or viruses, failure of technology, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of our control could have an adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and/or on our business. Our business recovery plan may not be adequate and may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations or substantial losses. Indemnification obligations arising from our membership in Visa USA could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are a member of Visa USA, Inc. for issuance and processing of its card transactions. As a member, we have an obligation to indemnify Visa USA under its bylaws and to indemnify Visa, Inc. under a retrospective responsibility plan, for contingent losses in connection with certain covered litigation disclosed in Visa’s public filings with the SEC based on our membership proportion of 0.02448%. We are not a party to the lawsuits brought against Visa USA. Visa USA is currently undergoing a restructuring and initial public offering, or IPO, that is expected to occur in the first half of 2008. In connection with the restructuring and IPO, Visa USA members are expected to receive shares in Visa, Inc. in exchange for their membership interest. A portion of these shares allocated to Visa USA members is expected to be withheld to cover the costs associated with the covered litigation described above whereby Visa USA members would not be required to make any cash payments to settle indemnification obligations. There can be no assurance that the restructuring or IPO of Visa will be successful or that the shares of Visa allocated to us will have sufficient value to cover our indemnification obligations. If the restructuring or IPO of Visa is unsuccessful or if the shares of Visa allocated to us are insufficient to cover our indemnification obligations, we may be exposed to significant financial liability. Such results could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to our fiduciary responsibilities. Some of the services we provide, such as trust and investment services, require us to act as fiduciaries for our customers and others. From time to time, third parties make claims and take legal action against us pertaining to the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. If these claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, we may be exposed to significant financial liability and/or our reputation could be damaged. Either of these results may adversely impact demand for our products and services or otherwise have a harmful effect on our business. New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly harm our business. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company’s shareholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking -14- Table of Contents regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Business – Regulation and Supervision” above. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance and monetary laws, and regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which we conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy of major U.S. companies, have resulted in legislators, regulators and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various taxing authorities responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations. Further, federal monetary policy as implemented through the Federal Reserve System can significantly affect credit conditions in our markets. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws and regulations, or changes in or repeal of existing laws and regulations or specific actions of regulators, may have a negative impact on our business. It is impossible for us to predict accurately at this time the extent of any impact from these items. Non-compliance with USA Patriot Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions and other enforcement actions. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require us to develop programs to prevent us from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, we are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require us to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. Federal and state regulators have broad enforcement powers. If we fail to comply with any laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies or interpretations applicable to us, we could face enforcement actions, which include the appointment of a conservator or receiver for us; the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; the termination of our deposit insurance; the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of directives to increase capital; the issuance of formal and informal agreements; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated parties; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support the Banks. The Federal Reserve, which examines us and our non-bank subsidiaries, has a policy stating that a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the source of strength doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank, and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it, and therefore may be required to borrow the funds. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company’s results of operations and cash flows. (5) Investment Risks: Our common stock is not publicly traded. Shares of our common stock are not publicly traded. Our common stock is not listed, quoted or traded on any securities exchange, market, bulletin board, quotation system or listing service. Because there is no established market for our common stock, there are limited opportunities for shareholders to resell their shares. In the event shareholders desire to sell or otherwise dispose of their shares, they may not be able to do so. -15- Table of Contents Shares of our common stock are subject to contractual transfer restrictions. With respect to our outstanding common stock, approximately 91% of the shares are subject to contractual transfer restrictions set forth in shareholder agreements. Except as described below, purchasers of our common stock are required to enter into shareholder agreements. We have a right of first refusal to repurchase the restricted stock at fair market value currently determined as the minority appraised value per share based upon the most recent quarterly appraisal. Additionally, restricted stock held by our officers, directors and employees may be called by us under certain conditions. All stock not subject to such restrictions may be sold at a price per share that is negotiated between the shareholder and a prospective buyer, which may vary substantially from our appraised minority value. Shares of our stock held by participants in the savings and profit sharing plan, or Savings Plan, established for our employees are not subject to contractual transfer restrictions set forth in shareholder agreements. Since the Savings Plan does not allow distributions “in kind,” distributions from participants’ Savings Plan accounts require First Interstate Bank, as trustee for the Savings Plan, to sell our stock. In the event we do not elect to purchase the unrestricted stock, the Bank will be obligated to seek alternative purchasers. We have no obligation to repurchase outstanding shares of common stock and we are subject to limitations on the amount of common stock we may repurchase. We have no obligation, by contract, policy or otherwise, to purchase restricted or unrestricted shares of our common stock. Futhermore, our debt covenants limit the repurchase of common shares, net of proceeds from the sale of capital securities, to a percentage of our consolidated net worth as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year. These covenants, unless amended or waived, restrict us in the number of shares we may repurchase from existing shareholders, thereby limiting the future liquidity for such shares. Any shares we may repurchase are priced at the most recent minority appraised value at the repurchase date. The appraised minority value of our common stock represents the estimated fair market valuation of a minority ownership interest, taking into account adjustments for the lack of marketability of the stock and other factors. This value does not represent an actual trading price between a willing buyer and seller of our shares in an informed, arm’s-length transaction. As such, the appraised minority value is only an estimate as of a specific date, and such appraisal may not be an indication of the actual value owners may realize with respect to shares they hold. Moreover, the estimated fair market value of our common stock may be materially different at any date other than the valuation dates. We are subject to limitations on the amount of dividends we may pay to our shareholders. Although we have historically paid dividends to our shareholders, we have no obligation to do so. Our debt covenants, unless amended or waived, limit the payment of dividends to our shareholders to a percentage of our consolidated net income for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Existing shareholders will be diluted by future issuances of common or preferred stock, and the valuation of our common stock could decrease. Future issuances of stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans or in connection with future financings or acquisitions could cause dilution to our existing shareholders. This dilution could cause the valuation of our common stock to decline and also decrease the per share amount of any cash dividends. Furthermore, a variety of other factors discussed in this report could have a negative impact on our business, thereby resulting in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Affiliates of our company own a controlling interest and are able to control the election of directors and future direction of our business. The directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 51% of our outstanding common stock. Many of these directors and executive officers are members of the Scott family, which collectively owns approximately 77% of our common stock. By virtue of such ownership, these affiliates are able to control the election of directors and the determination of our business, including transactions involving dividends, stock repurchases, and any potential acquisition, merger or other business combination. -16- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We are not an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, or a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports filed under the Exchange Act. 