Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other financial and bank holding companies, we are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control, including: (1) credit risks; (2) market risks; (3) liquidity risks; and, (4) operational risks. In addition, investors who purchase our securities are subject to (5) investment risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be harmed. Readers should consider carefully the following important factors in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. (1) Credit Risks: We may incur significant credit losses, particularly in light of recent market developments. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans and extending loan commitments and letters of credit. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize “in-market” lending. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques designed to ensure that loans adhere to corporate policy and problem loans are promptly identified. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, which we believe are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance and the value of available collateral, monitoring loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These procedures provide us with the information to implement policy adjustments where necessary and to take proactive corrective actions. Our credit standards, procedures and policies may not prevent us from incurring substantial credit losses, particularly in light of recent market developments. During 2008, we experienced deterioration in credit quality, particularly in certain real estate development loans, due in part to the impact resulting from the downturn in the prevailing economic, real estate and credit markets. This deterioration resulted in higher levels of non-performing assets, including other real estate owned, and internally risk classified loans, thereby increasing our provision for loan losses and decreasing our operating income in 2008. Given the current economic conditions and trends, management believes we will continue to experience credit deterioration and higher levels of non-performing loans in the near-term, which will likely have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our concentrations of real estate loans could subject us to increased risks in the event real estate values continue to decline due to the economic recession, a further deterioration in the real estate markets or other causes. At February 28, 2009, we had approximately $3.1 billion of commercial, agricultural, construction, residential and other real estate loans representing approximately 65% of our total loan portfolio. The current economic recession and deterioration in the real estate markets have had an adverse effect on the collateral value for many of our loans and on the repayment ability of many of our borrowers. The continuation or further deterioration of these factors, including increasing foreclosures and unemployment, will continue to have the same or similar adverse effects. In addition, these factors could reduce the amount of loans we make to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact our interest income and results of operations. A continued decline in real estate values could also lead to higher charge-offs in the event of defaults in our real estate loan portfolio. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural or manmade disaster in our market areas could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans. Any one or a combination of the factors identified above could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. - 10 - Table of Contents Many of our loans are to commercial borrowers, which have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans. Commercial loans, including commercial real estate loans, are often larger and involve greater risks than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation or development of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans is more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy. Accordingly, the recent downturn in the real estate market and economy has heightened our risk related to commercial loans, particularly commercial real estate loans. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrowers’ ability to make repayment from their employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrowers’ ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the commercial venture. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. At February 28, 2009, we had approximately $2.4 billion of commercial loans, including commercial real estate loans, representing approximately 49% of our total loan portfolio. Adverse economic conditions affecting Montana, Wyoming and South Dakota could harm our business. Our customers with loan and/or deposit balances are located predominantly in Montana, Wyoming and South Dakota. Because of the concentration of loans and deposits in these states, existing or future adverse economic conditions in Montana, Wyoming or South Dakota could cause us to experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if the loans were more geographically diversified. Adverse economic conditions, including inflation, recession and unemployment, and other factors, such as political or business developments, natural disasters, wide-spread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other unfavorable conditions and events that affect these states, could reduce demand for credit or fee-based products and may delay or prevent borrowers from repaying their loans. Adverse conditions and other factors identified above could also negatively affect real estate and other collateral values, interest rate levels, and the availability of credit to refinance loans at or prior to maturity. These results could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we experience loan losses in excess of estimated amounts, our earnings will be adversely affected. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of our loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses. These assumptions and judgments are even more complex and difficult to determine given recent market developments, the potential for continued market turmoil and the significant uncertainty of future conditions in the general economy and banking industry. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the banking authorities or regulations require us to increase the allowance for loan losses, our earnings and financial condition could be significantly and adversely affected. As of February 28, 2009, our allowance for loan losses was $90 million, which represented 1.88% of total outstanding loans. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. Future adjustments to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or further adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. The financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and a serious lack of liquidity. Our credit risk is exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit exposure due to us. Any such losses could harm our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. - 11 - Table of Contents Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss of investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing and counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to increased credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. (2) Market Risks: Recent market developments have affected our business and will continue to have an effect in ways that are not predictable or that we may fail to anticipate. The recent market developments and turmoil and the potential for increased and continuing disruptions present considerable risks and challenges to us. These risks and challenges have reached unprecedented levels and have significantly diminished overall confidence in the national economy, the financial markets and many financial institutions. This reduced confidence could further compound the overall market disruptions and risks to banks and bank holding companies, including us. Our business is affected by economic conditions, political uncertainties, volatility, illiquidity and other developments impacting the financial markets. Such factors have affected, and may further adversely affect, both credit and financial markets and future economic growth, resulting in adverse effects on us and other financial institutions in ways that are not predictable or that we may fail to anticipate. The effects of recent legislative and regulatory efforts to provide financial market stability are uncertain. In response to recent market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators have implemented a number of mechanisms designed to address the financial market turmoil, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, and implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets. On October 3, 2008, the EESA was enacted which, among other things, empowers the Treasury to provide up to $700 billion of funding to stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Secretary of the Treasury announced the TARP Capital Purchase Program, a program in which $250 billion of the funds under EESA are made available for the purchase of preferred equity interests in qualifying financial institutions. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was enacted which amended, in certain respects, EESA and provided an additional $787 billion in economic stimulus funding. The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets are uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization results. These efforts may even have unintended harmful consequences on the U.S. financial system and our business. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize and add sufficient liquidity to the financial markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Even if legislative or regulatory efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies and business operations. We may also incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements. Given the volatile nature of the current market disruption and the uncertainties underlying efforts to mitigate or reverse the disruption, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments in the current or future environment. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our net interest income, may weaken demand for our products and services and harm our results of operations and cash flows. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and - 12 - Table of Contents borrowings, but such changes could also adversely affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including mortgage servicing rights, (iii) our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets and (iv) the average duration of our mortgage-backed investment securities portfolio. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could harm our results of operations and cash flows. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing customers to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on mortgage loans sold to be lower than originally recognized. If this happens, we may need to write down our mortgage servicing rights asset faster, which would accelerate expense and lower our earnings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. (3) Liquidity Risks: We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers unless we maintain sufficient liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Potential alternative sources of liquidity include Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements. We maintain a portfolio of investment securities that may be used as a secondary source of liquidity to the extent the securities are not pledged for collateral. We believe there are other potential sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources may include the drawing of additional funds on our revolving term loan, the sale of loans, the utilization of available government and regulatory assistance programs, the ability to acquire national market, non-core deposits, the issuance of additional collateralized borrowings such as Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, advances, the issuance of debt securities, issuance of equity securities and borrowings through the Federal Reserve’s discount window. Without sufficient liquidity from these potential sources, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers. Recent market disruptions have caused increased liquidity risks. The recent disruption and illiquidity in the credit markets are continuing challenges that have generally made potential funding sources more difficult to access, less reliable and more expensive. In addition, liquidity in the inter-bank market, as well as the markets for commercial paper and other short-term instruments, have significantly contracted. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. These market conditions have made the management of our own and our customers’ liquidity significantly more challenging. A further deterioration in the credit markets or a prolonged period without improvement of market liquidity could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position, including our regulatory capital ratios, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. The inability of our bank subsidiaries to pay dividends due to legal or regulatory limitations could adversely affect our liquidity and operations and our ability to service debt, redeem stock and pay dividends. We, as a holding company, are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries. We receive all of our revenue from management fees and dividends paid by our bank subsidiaries. These dividends are our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank subsidiaries may pay. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations and our ability to service debt, redeem stock and pay dividends. The Federal Reserve, the State of Montana, Division of Banking and Financial Institutions, and the State of South Dakota, Department of Revenue & Regulation, Division of Banking, are the primary regulatory agencies that examine us and our activities. Under certain circumstances, including any determination that the activities of our bank subsidiaries constitute an unsafe and unsound banking practice, the regulatory agencies have the authority by statute to restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to transfer assets and make distributions to us as the holding company. Under applicable statutes and regulations, dividends may be paid out of current or retained net profits, but prior approval of the regulatory agencies is generally required for the payment of a dividend if the total of all dividends declared by a bank subsidiary in any calendar year would exceed the total of its net profits for the year combined with its undistributed net profits for the two preceding years. - 13 - Table of Contents Payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if a bank subsidiary became “under-capitalized” for purposes of regulatory guidelines. “Under-capitalized” is currently defined as having a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%, or a core capital, or leverage, ratio of less than 4.0%. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. Failure to meet our debt covenants could result in our debt becoming immediately due and payable, which could adversely impact our results from operations, cash flows and financial condition. In conjunction with the First Western acquisition in January 2008, we incurred debt of $159 million payable to various lenders under various debt agreements. The debt agreements contain covenants that, among other things, establish minimum capital and financial performance ratios, and place restrictions on indebtedness, non-performing assets, the allowance for loan losses, the redemption and issuance of common stock and the amount of dividends payable to shareholders. Failure to comply with the debt covenants could result in, among other remedies, the debt becoming immediately due and payable and the subsequent liquidation of our assets in satisfaction of the debt. As discussed above, we experienced deterioration in credit quality during 2008 which resulted in higher levels of non-performing loans and caused us to be in default under our syndicated credit agreement as of June 30, 2008. Although we entered into an amendment to our syndicated credit agreement that waived such default, the amendment reduced the maximum amount that can be advanced on revolving notes under the syndicated credit agreement, increased the interest rate and commitment fee with respect to the revolving notes, and revised certain debt covenants related to non-performing assets. Although we have been in compliance with all existing and amended debt covenants since the amendment, we cannot predict the full impact market developments will have on our business. Given the current economic conditions and trends, management believes we will continue to experience credit deterioration and higher levels of non-performing loans in the near-term, which could cause us to be in default under some of the financial covenants contained in our syndicated credit agreement. Consequently, it is possible we will be required to pursue waivers or amendments with respect to such covenants, which waivers or amendments, if available, will likely contain terms that are unfavorable to us. (4) Operational Risks: We face significant competition. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets we serve. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Additionally, we expect competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things, the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; the ability to expand our market position; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; customer satisfaction with our level of service; and, industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could harm our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. - 14 - Table of Contents We may not be able to manage risks inherent in our business, particularly given the recent turbulent and dynamic market conditions. A comprehensive and well-integrated risk management function is essential for our business. We have adopted various policies, procedures and systems to monitor and manage risk. These policies, procedures and systems may be inadequate to identify and mitigate all risks inherent in our business. In addition, our business and the markets and industry in which we operate are continuously evolving. We may fail to understand fully the implications of changes in our business or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes, particularly given the recent turbulent and dynamic market conditions. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or in our business or for other reasons, we could incur losses and otherwise experience harm to our business. We may not be able to continue growing our business. Our total assets have grown from $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2004 to $6.6 billion as of December 31, 2008. Our ability to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully attract deposits, identify favorable loan and investment opportunities, open new branch banking offices and expand into new and complementary markets when appropriate opportunities arise. In the event we do not continue to grow, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our ability to grow successfully depends on our capital resources and whether we can continue to fund growth while maintaining cost controls and asset quality, as well as on other factors beyond our control, such as national and regional economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we are not able to make loans, attract deposits and maintain asset quality due to constrained capital resources or other reasons, we may not be able to continue growing our business, which could adversely impact our earnings, financial condition and prospects. We may become liable for environmental remediation and other costs on repossessed properties, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. If hazardous or toxic substances are found on these properties, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure actions on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our information systems may experience a breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. A breach in the security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, investment, credit card and other information systems. A breach of the security of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. A failure of the technology we use could harm our business. We depend heavily upon data processing, software, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to breaches of security or other technological difficulties or failures. . We rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted, and we could be exposed to claims from customers and related legal actions. Any of these results could harm our business. - 15 - Table of Contents We may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our systems of internal operating controls may not be effective. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide us with critical information used to manage our business. These systems are not foolproof, and are subject to various inherent limitations, including cost, judgments used in decision-making, assumptions about the likelihood of future events, the soundness of our systems, the possibility of human error, and the risk of fraud. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions and the risk that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate over time. Because of these limitations, any system of internal operating controls may not be successful in preventing all errors or fraud or in making all material information known in a timely manner to the appropriate levels of management. From time to time, losses from operational malfunctions or fraud may occur. These losses are recorded as non-interest expense. Any future losses related to internal operating control systems could have an adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management skills of our executive officers and directors, many of whom have held officer and director positions with us for many years. The loss or unavailability of key executives, including Lyle R. Knight, President and Chief Executive Officer, Terrill R. Moore, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Edward Garding, Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, Gregory A. Duncan, Executive Vice President and Chief Banking Officer, or Julie A. Castle, President — First Interstate Bank Wealth Management, could harm our ability to operate our business or execute our business strategy. Our goodwill may become impaired. The excess purchase price over the fair value of net assets from acquisitions, or goodwill, is evaluated for impairment at least annually, and on an interim basis if an event or circumstance indicates that it is likely an impairment has occurred. In testing for impairment, the fair value of a reporting unit is estimated based on an analysis of market-based trading and transaction multiples of selected peer banks; and, if required, the estimated fair value is allocated to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. Consequently, the determination of goodwill is sensitive to market-based trading and transaction multiples. As such, variability in the market conditions could result in impairment of goodwill, which is recorded as a noncash adjustment to income. As of February 28, 2009, we had goodwill of $184 million. An impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees to operate our business effectively. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in our markets. Although unemployment rates have been migrating upward in Montana, Wyoming, South Dakota and the surrounding region, it may still be difficult to attract and retain qualified employees at all management and staffing levels. Failure to attract and retain employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel could adversely impact our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy. Furthermore, relatively low unemployment rates in our markets may lead to significant increases in salaries, wages and employee benefits expenses as we compete for qualified, skilled employees. - 16 - Table of Contents An extended disruption of vital infrastructure and other business interruptions could negatively impact our business. Our operations depend upon vital infrastructure components including, among other things, transportation systems, power grids and telecommunication systems. A disruption in our operations resulting from failure of transportation and telecommunication systems, loss of power, interruption of other utilities, natural disaster, fire, global climate changes, computer hacking or viruses, failure of technology, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of our control could have an adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and/or on our business. Our business recovery plan may not be adequate and may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations or substantial losses. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to our fiduciary responsibilities. Some of the services we provide, such as trust and investment services, require us to act as fiduciaries for our customers and others. From time to time, third parties make claims and take legal action against us pertaining to the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. If these claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, we may be exposed to significant financial liability and/or our reputation could be damaged. Either of these results may adversely impact demand for our products and services or otherwise have a harmful effect on our business. New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly harm our business. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company’s shareholders. These regulations may impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Business — Regulation and Supervision” above. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance and monetary laws, and regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which we conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are undergoing significant review, are constantly evolving and may change significantly, particularly given the recent market developments in the banking and financial services industries. Recent events have resulted in legislators, regulators and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various taxing authorities responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations. Further, federal monetary policy as implemented through the Federal Reserve System can significantly affect credit conditions in our markets. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations, or changes in or repeal of these items or specific actions of regulators, may increase our costs of compliance and harm our business. For example, potential increases in or other modifications affecting regulatory capital thresholds could impact our status as “well capitalized.” It is impossible for us to predict accurately at this time the extent of any impact from changes in existing laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations. Non-compliance with laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions and other enforcement actions. Federal and state regulators have broad enforcement powers. If we fail to comply with any laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies or interpretations applicable to us, we could face various sanctions and enforcement actions, which include the appointment of a conservator or receiver for us; the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; the termination of our deposit insurance; the imposition of civil monetary fines and penalties; the issuance of directives to increase capital; the issuance of formal and informal agreements; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated parties; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support our bank subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve, which examines us and our subsidiaries, has a policy stating that a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the source of strength doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank, and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at - 17 - Table of Contents times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it, and therefore may be required to borrow the funds. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Banks. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a certain level. Recent bank failures and expectations for further failures in 2009 have reduced insurance reserve funds to their lowest level since 1993. On October 16, 2008, the FDIC published a restoration plan designed to replenish the DIF over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits by December 31, 2013. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposes to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. For the first quarter of 2009 only, the FDIC increased all FDIC deposit assessment rates by 7 basis points. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC amended the restoration plan to extend the restoration plan horizon to seven years. The amended restoration plan was accompanied by a final rule setting assessment rates and making adjustments to improve how the assessment system differentiates for risk. Under the final rule, the base assessment rates would range from 12-16 basis points for Risk Category I institutions, such as our bank subsidiaries, beginning April 1, 2009. Changes to the risk-based assessment system include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, including CDARS, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, including FHLB advances, lowering premiums for smaller institutions with high capital levels, and reductions in assessment rates for institutions holding long-term unsecured debt. In addition, on February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule proposing a 20 basis point special assessment for all FDIC insured financial institutions. This proposed assessment, to be collected on September 30, 2009, is based on deposits as of June 30, 2009. Based on our current level and mix of deposit accounts, we estimate that a 20 basis point special assessment, should it occur, would result in an increase our deposit insurance premiums of approximately $10.4 million. The interim rule also proposes to permit the FDIC to impose an additional special assessment after June 30, 2009 of up to 10 basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. This interim rule is subject to modification by the FDIC. A change in the risk categories assigned to our bank subsidiaries, adjustments to base assessment rates and special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. (5) Investment Risks: Our common stock is not publicly traded. Shares of our common stock are not publicly traded. Our common stock is not listed, quoted or traded on any securities exchange, market, bulletin board, quotation system or listing service. Because there is no established market for our common stock, there are limited opportunities for shareholders to resell their shares. In the event shareholders desire to sell or otherwise dispose of their shares, they may not be able to do so. Shares of our common stock are subject to contractual transfer restrictions. With respect to our outstanding common stock, approximately 91% of the shares are subject to contractual transfer restrictions set forth in shareholder agreements. Except as described below, purchasers of our common stock are required to enter into shareholder agreements. We have a right of first refusal to repurchase the restricted stock at fair market value currently determined as the minority appraised value per share based upon the most recent quarterly appraisal. Additionally, restricted stock held by our officers, directors and employees may be called by us under certain conditions. All stock not subject to such restrictions may be sold at a price per share that is negotiated between the shareholder and a prospective buyer, which may vary substantially from our appraised minority value. - 18 - Table of Contents Shares of our stock held by participants in the savings and profit sharing plan, or Savings Plan, established for our employees are not subject to contractual transfer restrictions set forth in shareholder agreements. Since the Savings Plan does not allow distributions “in kind,” distributions from participants’ Savings Plan accounts require First Interstate Bank, as trustee for the Savings Plan, to sell our stock. In the event we do not elect to purchase the unrestricted stock, First Interstate Bank will be obligated to seek alternative purchasers. We have no obligation to repurchase outstanding shares of common stock and we are subject to limitations on the amount of common stock we may repurchase. We have no obligation, by contract, policy or otherwise, to purchase restricted or unrestricted shares of our outstanding common stock held by shareholders. Our debt covenants limit the repurchase of common shares, net of proceeds from the sale of capital securities, to a percentage of our consolidated net worth as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year. These covenants, unless amended or waived, restrict us in the number of shares we may repurchase from existing shareholders, thereby limiting the future liquidity for such shares. Moreover, during any period in which we may be in default under such covenants, we will be precluded from repurchasing any shares. Furthermore, we have made and adopted, and will continue to make and adopt, capital management decisions and policies that could limit the repurchase of outstanding common stock held by shareholders given regulatory limitations, strategic plans, growth initiatives, capital availability, projected liquidity needs and other factors. We have recently announced we will only receive requests for the repurchase of common shares during a two-week period commencing two days following the quarterly announcement of the minority appraised value of our common stock and that the number of shares repurchased during any window period may be limited at the discretion of our board of directors. Any limitations on the number of shares repurchased could cause a decrease in the value of our stock. Shares we may repurchase will be priced at fair market value determined in good faith by our board of directors. The board of directors may, in their sole discretion, utilize an independent party to assist with the determination of fair value of the shares. Historically, shares repurchased have been priced at the most recent minority appraised value at the repurchase date. The appraised minority value of our common stock represents the estimated fair market valuation of a minority ownership interest, taking into account adjustments for the lack of marketability of the stock and other factors. This value does not represent an actual trading price between a willing buyer and seller of our shares in an informed, arm’s-length transaction. As such, the appraised minority value is only an estimate as of a specific date, and such appraisal may not be an indication of the actual value owners may realize with respect to shares they hold. Moreover, the estimated fair market value of our common stock may be materially different at any date other than the valuation dates. We are subject to limitations on the amount of dividends we may pay to our shareholders. Although we have historically paid dividends to our shareholders, we have no obligation to do so. Our debt covenants limit the payment of dividends to our shareholders to a percentage of our consolidated net income for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Furthermore, consistent with our strategic plans, growth initiatives, capital availability, projected liquidity needs and other factors, we have made and adopted, and will continue to make and adopt, capital management decisions and policies that could adversely impact the amount of dividends paid to our shareholders. Both participation and nonparticipation in recently announced assistance programs and initiatives for financial institutions have the potential to result in an adverse effect on our common stock. Various assistance programs and initiatives for financial institutions have been recently announced, including the Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program and Public-Private Investment Fund, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors Commercial Paper Funding Facility and Money Market Investor Funding Facility, the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and various other initiatives. To date, we have only made application for participation in one of these programs, the Capital Purchase Program. In connection with the application, we have requested certain exceptions to the Treasury’s standard terms and conditions applicable to the program. We cannot predict whether our requested exceptions will be considered or whether our application will be accepted. If we are accepted and decide to participate in the Capital Purchase Program, we will issue shares of preferred stock mandatorily convertible into common stock that will have rights and preferences over our common stock and that are expected to rank on a parity with our existing series A preferred stock as to dividends and liquidation rights. Any shares of preferred stock issued pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program could cause a decrease in the value of our outstanding common stock and in the amount of cash dividends per common share. - 19 - Table of Contents We are evaluating participation in the various government and regulatory assistance programs. While each of these programs is intended to assist financial institutions, there may be potential disadvantages to participating institutions. Conversely, financial institutions that do not participate in a particular program may fail to realize the intended benefits and be at a competitive disadvantage. It is impossible for us to predict accurately at this time the extent of our participation or nonparticipation in recently announced government and regulatory programs and initiatives. Consequences and effects associated with our participation or lack thereof have the potential to result in an adverse effect on our common stock. Existing shareholders will be diluted by future issuances of common or preferred stock, and the valuation of our common stock could decrease. In addition to the possible issuance of preferred stock under the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, future issuances of stock, including issuances pursuant to our equity incentive plans or in connection with other future financings or acquisitions, such as with the issuance of our series A preferred stock in the First Western acquisition, could cause dilution to our existing shareholders. This dilution could cause the valuation of our common stock to decline and also decrease the per share amount of any cash dividends. Furthermore, a variety of other factors discussed in this report could have a negative impact on our business, thereby resulting in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Affiliates of our company own a controlling interest and are able to control the election of directors and future direction of our business. The directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 51% of our outstanding common stock. Many of these directors and executive officers are members of the Scott family, which collectively owns approximately 78% of our common stock. By virtue of such ownership, these affiliates are able to control the election of directors and the determination of our business, including transactions involving dividends, stock repurchases, and any potential acquisition, merger or other business combination. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We are not an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, or a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports filed under the Exchange Act. 