Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other financial and bank holding companies, we are subject to a number of risks, some of which are outside of our control, including: (1) credit risks; (2) market risks; (3) liquidity risks; and, (4) operational risks. In addition, investors who purchase shares of our common stock are subject to (5) investment risks. Readers should consider carefully the following important factors in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. (1) Credit Risks: We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment. We manage the credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions, and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. Our credit standards, the nature of our loan portfolio and on-going process of credit management and assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans and extending loan commitments and letters of credit. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize “in-market” lending. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques designed to ensure that loans adhere to corporate policy and problem loans are promptly identified. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, which we believe are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss by assessing the likelihood of non-performance and the value of available collateral, monitoring loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These procedures provide us with the information necessary to implement policy adjustments where necessary and to take proactive corrective actions. Our credit standards, procedures and policies may not prevent us from incurring substantial credit losses. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 62% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk and are typically larger than residential real estate loans or consumer loans and, therefore, have a higher risk of loss. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision of loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs. Our loans and deposits are focused in Montana and Wyoming. Adverse economic conditions in these states could adversely impact our results from operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Our customers with loan and/or deposit balances are located predominantly in Montana and Wyoming. Because of the concentration of loans and deposits in these states, in the event of adverse economic conditions in Montana or Wyoming, we could experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if the loans were more geographically diversified. Adverse economic conditions, including inflation, recession and unemployment, and other factors, such as political or business developments, natural disasters, wide-spread disease, terrorist activity, environmental - 10 - Table of Contents contamination and other unfavorable conditions and events that affect these states, could reduce demand for credit or fee-based products and may delay or prevent borrowers from repaying their loans. Adverse conditions and other factors identified above could also negatively affect real estate and other collateral values, interest rate levels, and the availability of credit to refinance loans at or prior to maturity. These results could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Declines in real estate values in our markets could adversely impact our business. Like all banks, we are subject to the effects of any economic downturn. In particular, a significant decline in real estate property values in our markets could have a negative effect on results of operations. A significant decline in real estate values could lead to higher charge-offs in the event of defaults in our real estate loan portfolio. At December 31, 2006, we had $2.1 billion of commercial, agricultural, construction, residential and other real estate loans representing 63% of our total loan portfolio. (2) Market Risks: Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our net interest income. Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as investments and loans) and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, and other factors beyond our control may also affect interest rates. In both rising and declining interest rate environments, our net interest income could be adversely impacted. Changes in interest rates may weaken demand for our products and services and harm our results of operations and cash flows. Changes in interest rates can affect customers’ demand for our products and services. Interest rate changes may also impact the value of our loans and other assets, including mortgage servicing rights, and our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. A portion of our earnings result from transactional income. An example of this type of transactional income is gain on sales of loans and investment securities. This type of income can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year based on a number of different factors, including the interest rate environment. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could harm our results of operations and cash flows. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing customers to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on mortgage loans sold to be lower than originally recognized. If this happens, we may need to write down our mortgage servicing rights asset faster, which would accelerate expense and lower our earnings. (3) Liquidity Risks: We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers unless we obtain sufficient liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. We regularly monitor our overall liquidity position to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Potential alternative sources of liquidity include Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements. We maintain a portfolio of investment securities that may be used as a secondary source of liquidity to the extent the securities are not pledged for collateral. We believe there are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources include the drawing of additional funds on our unsecured revolving term loan, the sale of loans, the ability to acquire national market, non-core deposits, the issuance of additional collateralized borrowings such as Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, advances, the issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of preferred or common securities. We may also be able to borrow through the Federal Reserve’s discount window. Without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers. - 11 - Table of Contents If our funding sources are inadequate, we may be unable to continue expanding our business, funding our operations, paying dividends or repurchasing stock. If we are unable to access adequate funding sources when needed, we may be unable to continue expansion of our business or fund operations. Inadequate funding sources could also prevent us from paying dividends and repurchasing stock. Accordingly, it is critical we maintain adequate liquidity to avoid an adverse impact on our financial condition and level of regulatory-qualifying capital. (4) Operational Risks: We have significant competition in both attracting and retaining deposits and in originating loans. Competition is intense in most of our markets. We compete on price, product availability, customer service and responsiveness to customer needs with other banks and financial services companies such as brokerage firms, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies and credit unions. Competition could intensify in the future as a result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of products and services from larger, multi-state financial holding companies and their bank and non-bank subsidiaries, greater technological developments in the industry, and banking reform. A failure of the technology we use could harm our business. We depend heavily upon data processing, software, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to breaches of security or other technological difficulties or failures. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, i_Tech, provides technology services to the Bank and other non-affiliated customers. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted, and we could be exposed to claims from customers and related legal actions. Any of these results could harm our business. Our information systems may experience a breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. A breach in the security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, investment and other information systems. A breach of the security of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Our systems of internal operating controls may not be effective. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide us with critical information used to manage our business. These systems are not foolproof, and are subject to various inherent limitations, including cost, judgments used in decision-making, assumptions about the likelihood of future events, the soundness of our systems, the possibility of human error, and the risk of fraud. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions and the risk that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate over time. Because of these limitations, any system of internal operating controls may not be successful in preventing all errors or fraud or in making all material information known in a timely manner to the appropriate levels of management. From time to time, losses from operational malfunctions or fraud may occur. These losses are recorded as noninterest expense. Any future losses related to internal operating control systems could have an adverse effect on our business. We may encounter unforeseen difficulties executing our business strategy, including unanticipated integration problems, business disruption in connection with expansions and loss of key personnel. Our financial performance and profitability will depend on our ability to execute our business strategy and manage our anticipated future growth. We may experience unforeseen problems as we integrate new banking offices and expand into new markets. In addition, any future acquisitions or other future growth may present operating and other problems that could negatively affect our business. Our financial performance will also depend on our ability to maintain profitable operations through implementation of our Strategic Vision. Decisions to sell or close units or otherwise change the business mix may adversely impact our financial performance. - 12 - Table of Contents Our success depends to a significant extent on the management skills of our existing executive officers and directors, many of whom have held officer and director positions with us for many years. The loss or unavailability of key executives, including Lyle R. Knight, President and Chief Executive Officer, Terrill R. Moore, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Robert A. Jones, Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, or Edward Garding, Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, could harm our ability to operate our business or execute our business strategy. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure and other business interruptions could negatively impact our business. Our operations depend upon vital infrastructure components including, among other things, transportation systems, power grids and telecommunication systems. A disruption in our operations resulting from failure of transportation and telecommunication systems, loss of power, interruption of other utilities, natural disaster, fire, global climate changes, computer hacking or viruses, failure of technology, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of our control could have an adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and/or on our business. Our business recovery plan may not be adequate and may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations or substantial losses. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to our fiduciary responsibilities. Some of the services we provide, such as trust and investment services, require us to act as fiduciaries for our customers and others. From time to time, third parties make claims and take legal action against us pertaining to the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. If these claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, we may be exposed to significant financial liability and/or our reputation could be damaged. Either of these results may adversely impact demand for our products and services or otherwise have a harmful effect on our business. New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly harm our business. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company’s shareholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Business – Regulation and Supervision” above. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance and monetary laws, and regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which we conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy of major U.S. companies, have resulted in legislators, regulators and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various taxing authorities responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations. Further, federal monetary policy as implemented through the Federal Reserve System can significantly affect credit conditions in our markets. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws and regulations, or changes in or repeal of existing laws and regulations or specific actions of regulators, may have a negative impact on our business. It is impossible for us to predict accurately at this time the extent of any impact from these items. Non-compliance with USA Patriot Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions and other enforcement actions. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require us to develop programs to prevent us from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, we are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require us to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. - 13 - Table of Contents Federal and state regulators have broad enforcement powers. If we fail to comply with any laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies or interpretations applicable to us, we could face enforcement actions, which include the appointment of a conservator or receiver for us; the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; the termination of our deposit insurance; the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of directives to increase capital; the issuance of formal and informal agreements; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated parties; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. In 2004, the Federal Reserve required us to adopt a resolution obligating the Bank to develop and implement a comprehensive action plan designed to enhance our policies, procedures and data processing systems used in identifying and verifying the identity of our customers and in reporting suspicious activities in accordance with the USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts. The resolution required us to submit written progress reports to the Federal Reserve and have the enhanced policies, procedures and data processing systems fully operational in 2006. As of December 31, 2006, our action plan was completed and our enhanced policies, procedures and data processing systems were fully operational. Regulators may impose dividend payment and other restrictions on the Bank which would impact our ability to pay dividends to shareholders or repurchase stock. The Federal Reserve and the State of Montana, Division of Banking and Financial Institutions, are the primary regulatory agencies that examine us and our activities. Under certain circumstances, including any determination that the activities of the Bank constitute an unsafe and unsound banking practice, the regulatory agencies have the authority by statute to restrict the Bank’s ability to transfer assets and make distributions to us as the holding company. Under applicable statutes and regulations, dividends may be paid out of current or retained net profits, but prior approval of the regulatory agencies is required for the payment of a dividend if the total of all dividends declared by the Bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of its net profits for the year combined with its undistributed net profits for the two preceding years. Payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if the Bank became “under-capitalized” for purposes of regulatory guidelines. “Under-capitalized” is currently defined as having a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%, or a core capital, or leverage, ratio of less than 4.0%. If the Bank were unable to pay dividends to us as the parent company, it would impact our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and repurchase stock. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support the Bank. The Federal Reserve, which examines us and our non-bank subsidiaries, has a policy stating that a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the source of strength doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank, and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it, and therefore may be required to borrow the funds. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company’s results of operations and cash flows. (5) Investment Risks: Our common stock is not publicly traded. Shares of our common stock are not publicly traded. Our common stock is not listed, quoted or traded on any securities exchange, market, bulletin board, quotation system or listing service. Because there is no established market for our common stock, there are limited opportunities for shareholders to resell their shares. In the event shareholders desire to sell or otherwise dispose of their shares, they may not be able to do so. - 14 - Table of Contents Shares of our common stock are subject to contractual transfer restrictions, and we have no obligation to repurchase outstanding shares of common stock. With respect to our outstanding common stock, approximately 90% of the shares are subject to contractual transfer restrictions set forth in shareholder agreements. Except as described below, purchasers of our common stock are required to enter into shareholder agreements. We have a right of first refusal to repurchase the restricted stock at fair market value currently determined as the minority appraised value per share based upon the most recent quarterly appraisal. Additionally, restricted stock held by our officers, directors and employees may be called by us under certain conditions. All stock not subject to such restrictions may be sold at a price per share that is negotiated between the shareholder and a prospective buyer, which may vary substantially from our appraised minority value. Shares of our stock held by participants in the savings and profit sharing plan, or Savings Plan, established for our employees are not subject to contractual transfer restrictions set forth in shareholder agreements due to requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA, and the Internal Revenue Code, or IRC. Since the Savings Plan does not allow distributions “in kind,” distributions from participants’ Savings Plan accounts require the Bank, as trustee for the Savings Plan, to sell our stock. In the event we do not elect to purchase the unrestricted stock, the Bank will be obligated to seek alternative purchasers. We have no obligation, by contract, policy or otherwise, to purchase restricted or unrestricted shares of our common stock. Any shares we may repurchase are priced at the most recent minority appraised value at the repurchase date. The appraised minority value of our common stock represents the estimated fair market valuation of a minority ownership interest, taking into account adjustments for the lack of marketability of the stock and other factors. This value does not represent an actual trading price between a willing buyer and seller of our shares in an informed, arm’s-length transaction. As such, the appraised minority value is only an estimate as of a specific date, and such appraisal may not be an indication of the actual value owners may realize with respect to shares they hold. Moreover, the estimated fair market value of our common stock may be materially different at any date other than the valuation dates. Existing shareholders will be diluted by future issuances of common stock, and the valuation of our common stock could decrease. Future issuances of stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans or in connection with future financings or acquisitions could cause dilution to our existing shareholders. This dilution could cause the valuation of our common stock to decline and also decrease the per share amount of any cash dividends. Furthermore, a variety of other factors discussed in this report could have a negative impact on our business, thereby resulting in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Affiliates of our company own a controlling interest and are able to control the election of directors and future direction of our business. The directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 61% of our outstanding common stock. Many of these directors and executive officers are members of the Scott family, which collectively owns approximately 75% of our common stock. By virtue of such ownership, these affiliates are able to control the election of directors and the determination of our business, including transactions involving dividends, stock repurchases, and any potential acquisition, merger or other business combination. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We are not an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, or a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports filed under the Exchange Act. 