Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other financial and bank holding companies, we are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be harmed. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Other risks of which we are not aware, including those which relate to the banking and financial services industry in general and us in particular, or those which we do not currently believe are material, may harm our future business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Readers should consider carefully the following important factors in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. Risks Relating to the Market and Our Business We may incur significant credit losses, particularly in light of current market conditions. We take on credit risk by virtue of making loans and extending loan commitments and letters of credit. Our credit standards, procedures and policies may not prevent us from incurring substantial credit losses, particularly in light of market developments in recent years. During 2009 and 2010, we experienced deterioration in credit quality, particularly in certain real estate development loans, due, in part, to the impact resulting from the downturn in the prevailing economic, real estate and credit markets. This deterioration resulted in higher levels of non-performing assets, including other real estate owned, or OREO, and internally risk classified loans, thereby increasing our provision for loan losses and decreasing our operating income in 2009 and 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had total non-performing assets of approximately $244 million, compared with approximately $163 million as of December 31, 2009 and approximately $97 million as of December 31, 2008. In the first two months of 2011, levels of non-performing assets and provisions for loan losses have remained elevated, which will continue to affect our earnings. Although current economic conditions are trending upwards, management believes we will continue to experience credit impairments and higher levels of non-performing loans in the near-term, which will likely have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our concentration of real estate loans subjects us to increased risks in the event real estate values continue to decline due to the economic recession, a further deterioration in the real estate markets or other causes. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $2.9 billion of commercial, agricultural, construction, residential and other real estate loans, representing approximately 66% of our total loan portfolio. The recent economic recession, deterioration in the real estate markets and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures have had an adverse effect on the collateral value for many of our loans and on the repayment ability of many of our borrowers. The continuation or further deterioration of these factors, including increasing foreclosures and unemployment, will continue to have the same or similar adverse effects. In addition, these factors could reduce the amount of loans we make to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact our interest income and results of operations. A continued decline in real estate values could also lead to higher charge-offs in the event of defaults in our real estate loan portfolio. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural or manmade disaster in our market areas could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans. Any one or a combination of the factors identified above could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. -11- Table of Contents Economic and market developments, including the potential for inflation, may have an adverse effect on our business, possibly in ways that are not predictable or that we may fail to anticipate. Recent economic and market developments and the potential for continued economic disruptions and inflation present considerable risks and challenges to us. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures throughout most of the nation, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant writedowns of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have also negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional writedowns. These risks and challenges have significantly diminished overall confidence in the national economy, the financial markets and many financial institutions. This reduced confidence could further compound the overall market disruptions and risks to banks and bank holding companies, including us. In addition to economic conditions, our business is also affected by regulatory uncertainties, volatility, illiquidity, interest rates, inflation and other developments impacting the financial markets. Such factors have affected and may further adversely affect both credit and financial markets and future economic growth, resulting in adverse effects on us and other financial institutions in ways that are not predictable or that we may fail to anticipate. Many of our loans are to commercial borrowers, which have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans. Commercial loans, including commercial real estate loans, are often larger and involve greater risks than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation or development of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans is more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy. Accordingly, the recent downturn in the real estate market and economy has heightened our risk related to commercial loans, particularly commercial real estate loans. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrowers’ ability to make repayment from their employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrowers’ ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the commercial venture. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Due to the larger average size of each commercial loan as compared with other loans such as residential loans, as well as the collateral which is generally less readily-marketable, losses incurred on a small number of commercial loans could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $2.3 billion of commercial loans, including approximately $1.6 billion of commercial real estate loans, representing approximately 53% of our total loan portfolio. If we experience loan losses in excess of estimated amounts, our earnings will be adversely affected. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of our loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses. These assumptions and judgments are even more complex and difficult to determine given recent market developments, the potential for continued market turmoil and the significant uncertainty of future conditions in the general economy and banking industry. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, or if the banking authorities or regulations require us to increase the allowance for loan losses, our earnings, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be significantly and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses was approximately $120 million, which represented 2.76% of total outstanding loans. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. Future adjustments to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or further adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. -12- Table of Contents Our goodwill may become impaired, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition and may limit our Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us, thereby causing liquidity issues. The excess purchase price over the fair value of net assets from acquisitions, or goodwill, is evaluated for impairment at least annually and on an interim basis if an event or circumstance indicates that it is likely impairment has occurred. In testing for impairment, the fair value of net assets will be estimated based on an analysis of our market value. Consequently, the determination of goodwill will be sensitive to market-based trading of our Class A common stock. As such, variability in market conditions could result in impairment of goodwill, which is recorded as a noncash adjustment to income. As of December 31, 2010, our Bank had goodwill of approximately $184 million, which was 2.4% of our total assets. An impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, an impairment of goodwill could cause our Bank to be unable to pay dividends to us, which would reduce our cash flow and cause liquidity issues. See below “—Our Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us is subject to regulatory limitations, which, to the extent we are not able to receive such dividends, may impair our ability to grow, pay dividends, cover operating expenses and meet debt service requirements.” Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our net interest income, may weaken demand for our products and services or harm our results of operations and cash flows. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also adversely affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including mortgage servicing rights, (3) our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets and (4) the average duration of our mortgage-backed investment securities portfolio. An increase in interest rates may reduce customers’ desire to borrow money from us as it increases their borrowing costs and may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans which may lead to an increase in non-performing assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could harm our results of operations and cash flows. Further, because many of our variable rate loans contain interest rate floors, as market interest rates begin to rise, the interest rates on these loans may not increase correspondingly. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing customers to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on mortgage loans sold to be lower than originally recognized. If this happens, we may need to write down our mortgage servicing rights asset faster, which would accelerate expense and lower our earnings. Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If the current low interest rate environment were to continue for a prolonged period, our interest income could decrease, adversely impacting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not continue to have access to low-cost funding sources. We depend on checking and savings, negotiable order of withdrawal, or NOW, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits as our primary source of funding. Such account and deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we could lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income. Our deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured depository institutions, including the Bank. Under current FDIC regulations, each insured depository institution is subject to a risk-based assessment system and, depending on its assigned risk category, is assessed insurance premiums based on the amount of deposits held. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a certain level. Recent bank failures have substantially reduced the DIF’s reserves. The FDIC has published and amended a restoration plan designed to replenish the DIF and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio through 2015. To implement the restoration plan, the FDIC has adopted a series of initiatives that have changed its risk-based assessment system, increased its base assessment rates and imposed special assessments. -13- Table of Contents A change in the risk category assigned to our Bank, further adjustments to base assessment rates and additional special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition and results of operation. We may not be able to continue growing our business. Our total assets have grown from $5.2 billion as of December 31, 2007 to $7.5 billion as of December 31, 2010. Our ability to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully attract deposits, identify favorable loan and investment opportunities, open new branch banking offices and expand into new and complementary markets when appropriate opportunities arise. In the event we do not continue to grow, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our ability to grow successfully depends on our capital resources and whether we can continue to fund growth while maintaining cost controls and asset quality, as well as on other factors beyond our control, such as national and regional economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we are not able to make loans, attract deposits and maintain asset quality due to constrained capital resources or other reasons, we may not be able to continue growing our business, which could adversely impact our earnings, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Adverse economic conditions affecting Montana, Wyoming and western South Dakota could harm our business. Our customers with loan and/or deposit balances are located predominantly in Montana, Wyoming and western South Dakota. Because of the concentration of loans and deposits in these states, existing or future adverse economic conditions in Montana, Wyoming or western South Dakota could cause us to experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if the loans were more geographically diversified. The recent economic recession has adversely affected the real estate and business environment in certain areas in Montana and Wyoming, especially in markets dependent upon resort communities and second homes such as Bozeman, Montana, Kalispell, Montana, and Jackson, Wyoming. In the future, adverse economic conditions, including inflation, recession and unemployment and other factors, such as regulatory or business developments, natural disasters, wide-spread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other unfavorable conditions and events that affect these states, could reduce demand for credit or fee-based products and may delay or prevent borrowers from repaying their loans. Adverse conditions and other factors identified above could also negatively affect real estate and other collateral values, interest rate levels and the availability of credit to refinance loans at or prior to maturity. These results could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to significant governmental regulation and new or changes in existing regulatory, tax and accounting rules and interpretations could significantly harm our business. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company’s stockholders. These regulations may impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Regulation and Supervision.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, employment, monetary and other laws and regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations control the methods by which we conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are undergoing significant review and changes, particularly given the recent market developments in the banking and financial services industries and the recent enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. Recent events have resulted in legislators, regulators and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and various taxing authorities responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations. Further, federal monetary policy as implemented through the Federal Reserve can significantly affect credit conditions in our markets. The nature, extent and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations, or changes in or repeal of these items or specific actions of regulators, may increase our costs of compliance and harm our business. For example, potential increases in or other modifications affecting regulatory capital thresholds could impact our status as “well capitalized.” We may not be able to predict accurately the extent of any impact from changes in existing laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations. -14- Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act will result in sweeping changes in the regulation of financial institutions and could significantly harm our business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act will result in sweeping changes in the regulation of financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous provisions that will affect all banks and bank holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions that, among other things: • change the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to total consolidated assets less tangible capital, eliminate the ceiling on the size of the DIF, and increase the floor of the size of the DIF; • repeal the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby generally permitting the payment of interest on all deposit accounts; • centralize responsibility for promulgating regulations under and enforcing federal consumer financial protection laws in a new bureau of consumer financial protection that will have direct supervision and examination authority over banks with more than $10 billion in assets; • require the FDIC to seek to make its capital requirements for banks countercyclical; • impose comprehensive regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, which would include certain provisions that would effectively prohibit insured depository institutions from conducting certain derivatives businesses in the institution itself; • implement corporate governance revisions, including with regard to executive compensation and proxy access by shareholders; • establish new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages; and • permit the Federal Reserve to prescribe regulations regarding interchange transaction fees, and limit them to an amount reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction in question. Many of these and other provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule-making and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. Although we cannot predict the specific impact and long-term effects that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on us and the financial industry in general, we believe the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder will result in additional administrative burdens that will obligate us to incur additional costs and expenses. Provisions of the Act that affect deposit insurance assessments, payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with deposits as well as place limitations on certain revenues those deposits may generate. Although the treatment of our existing trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital will be grandfathered under the Act, provisions of the Act that revoke Tier 1 capital treatments of trust preferred securities and otherwise require revisions to capital requirements may cause us to seek other sources of capital in the future. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act could limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, reduce interchange fees, require us to renegotiate payment network agreements or enter into multiple payment network agreements, require a significant amount of management’s time and attention, and otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Non-compliance with laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions and other enforcement actions and the loss of our financial holding company status. Federal and state regulators have broad enforcement powers. If we fail to comply with any laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies or interpretations applicable to us, we could face various sanctions and enforcement actions, which include: • the appointment of a conservator or receiver for us; • the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; • the termination of our deposit insurance; • the imposition of civil monetary fines and penalties; • the issuance of directives to increase capital; • the issuance of formal and informal agreements; • the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors and other institution-affiliated parties; and -15- Table of Contents • the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders The imposition of any such sanctions or other enforcement actions could adversely impact our earnings, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, as a financial holding company, we may engage in authorized financial activities provided we are in compliance with applicable regulatory standards and guidelines. If we fail to meet such standards and guidelines, we may be required to cease certain financial holding company activities and, in certain circumstances, to divest the Bank. The effects of recent legislative and regulatory efforts are uncertain. In response to market disruptions over the past two and a half years, legislators and financial regulators have implemented a number of initiatives designed to stabilize and improve the financial markets. These efforts have included: • direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions and the provision of assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers; • legislation that provided economic stimulus funding and liquidity to the financial markets, including the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program; • programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets, stimulus to increase commercial and consumer based lending, and successive rounds of quantitative easing; • proposed guidance by the Federal Reserve on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations; • proposals and recent judicial decisions limiting a lender’s ability to foreclose on mortgages or make such foreclosures less economically viable, including by allowing Chapter 13 bankruptcy plans to “cram down” the value of certain mortgages on a consumer’s principal residence to its market value and/or reset interest rates and monthly payments to permit defaulting debtors to remain in their home; • acceleration of the effective date of various provisions of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, which restrict certain credit and charge card practices, require expanded disclosures to consumers and provide consumers with the right to opt out of interest rate increases (with limited exceptions); • adoption of new rules by the Federal Reserve under Regulation E, effective July 1, 2010 for new accounts and August 15, 2010 for existing accounts, generally prohibiting financial institutions from charging overdraft fees for ATM and one-time debit card transactions that overdraw consumer deposit accounts, unless the consumer “opts in” to having such overdrafts authorized and paid; and • enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. These initiatives may increase our expenses or decrease our income by, among other things, making it harder for us to foreclose on mortgages and impacting the amount of overdraft fees we will be able to charge. Further, the overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets remain uncertain and they may not have the intended results. These efforts may even have unintended harmful consequences on the U.S. financial system and our business. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives have unintended effects, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may need to modify our strategies and business operations in response to these changes. We may also incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements. Given the volatile nature of the current market and the uncertainties underlying efforts to mitigate or reverse disruptions, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments in the current or future environment. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. -16- Table of Contents We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management skills of our executive officers and directors, many of whom have held officer and director positions with us for many years. The unanticipated loss or unavailability of key executives, including Lyle R. Knight, President and Chief Executive Officer, who has announced his plan to retire in March 2012, Terrill R. Moore, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Edward Garding, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and Julie A. Castle, Executive Vice President and President—First Interstate Bank Wealth Management, could harm our ability to operate our business or execute our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining these key employees or finding suitable successors in the event of their loss or unavailability. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees to operate our business effectively. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in our markets. Although unemployment rates have been declining in Montana and Wyoming, and the surrounding region, it may still be difficult to attract and retain qualified employees at all management and staffing levels. Failure to attract and retain employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel could adversely impact our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy. Furthermore, relatively low unemployment rates in certain of our markets, compared with national unemployment rates, may lead to significant increases in salaries, wages and employee benefits expenses as we compete for qualified, skilled employees, which could negatively impact our results of operations and prospects. A failure of the technology we use could harm our business and our information systems may experience a breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business and we depend heavily upon data processing, software, communication and information exchange from a number of vendors on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. We cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to breaches of security or other technological difficulties or failures. A breach in the security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, investment, credit card and other information systems. A breach of the security of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Furthermore, the computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to other unforeseen problems, such as damage from fire, privacy loss, telecommunications failure or other similar events which would also have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations rely on certain external vendors. We are reliant upon certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. In addition, we are subject to certain long-term vendor contracts that limit our flexibility and increase our dependence on third party vendors. Failure of certain external vendors to perform in accordance with contractual arrangements could be disruptive to our operations and limit our ability to provide certain products and services demanded by our customers, which could have material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations An extended disruption of vital infrastructure and other business interruptions could negatively impact our business. Our operations depend upon vital infrastructure components including, among other things, transportation systems, power grids and telecommunication systems. A disruption in our operations resulting from failure of transportation and telecommunication systems, loss of power, interruption of other utilities, natural disaster, fire, global climate changes, computer hacking or viruses, failure of technology, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity or other events outside of our control could have an adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and/or on our business. Our business recovery plan may not be adequate and may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations or substantial losses. -17- Table of Contents Recent market disruptions have caused increased liquidity risks. The recent disruption and illiquidity in the credit markets are continuing challenges that have generally made potential funding sources more difficult to access, less reliable and more expensive. In addition, liquidity in the inter-bank market, as well as the markets for commercial paper and other short-term instruments, has contracted significantly. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. These market conditions have made the management of our own and our customers’ liquidity significantly more challenging. Existing or future deterioration in the credit markets or a prolonged period without improvement of market liquidity could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our regulatory capital ratios, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers unless we maintain sufficient liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Potential alternative sources of liquidity include federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements. We maintain a portfolio of investment securities that may be used as a secondary source of liquidity to the extent the securities are not pledged for collateral. Other potential sources of liquidity include the sale of loans, the utilization of available government and regulatory assistance programs, the ability to acquire national market, non-core deposits, the issuance of additional collateralized borrowings such as Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, advances, the issuance of debt securities, issuance of equity securities and borrowings through the Federal Reserve’s discount window. Without sufficient liquidity from these potential sources, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates. Although our growth strategy is to primarily focus and promote organic growth, we also have in the past and intend in the future to complement and expand our business by pursuing strategic acquisitions of banks and other financial institutions. We believe, however, there are a limited number of banks that will meet our acquisition criteria and, consequently, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for acquisitions. In addition, even if suitable candidates are identified, we expect to compete with other potential bidders for such businesses, many of which may have greater financial resources than we have. Our failure to find suitable acquisition candidates, or successfully bid against other competitors for acquisitions, could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. We may be unable to manage our growth due to acquisitions, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Acquisitions of other banks and financial institutions involve risks of changes in results of operations or cash flows, unforeseen liabilities relating to the acquired institution or arising out of the acquisition, asset quality problems of the acquired entity and other conditions not within our control, such as adverse personnel relations, loss of customers because of change of identity, deterioration in local economic conditions and other risks affecting the acquired institution. In addition, the process of integrating acquired entities will divert significant management time and resources. We may not be able to integrate successfully or operate profitably any financial institutions we may acquire. We may experience disruption and incur unexpected expenses in integrating acquisitions. There can be no assurance that any such acquisitions will enhance our cash flows, business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and such acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly during periods in which the acquisitions are being integrated into our operations. -18- Table of Contents We face significant competition from other financial institutions and financial services providers. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources, higher lending limits and large branch networks. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets we serve. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; • the ability to expand our market position; • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; • the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; • customer satisfaction with our level of service; and • industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to manage risks inherent in our business, particularly given the recent turbulent and dynamic market conditions. A comprehensive and well-integrated risk management function is essential for our business. We have adopted various policies, procedures and systems to monitor and manage risk and are currently implementing a centralized risk oversight function. These policies, procedures and systems may be inadequate to identify and mitigate all risks inherent in our business. In addition, our business and the markets and industry in which we operate are continuously evolving. We may fail to understand fully the implications of changes in our business or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes, particularly given the recent turbulent and dynamic market conditions. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or in our business or for other reasons, we could incur losses and otherwise experience harm to our business. Our systems of internal operating controls may not be effective. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide us with critical information used to manage our business. These systems are subject to various inherent limitations, including cost, judgments used in decision-making, assumptions about the likelihood of future events, the soundness of our systems, the possibility of human error and the risk of fraud. Moreover, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions and the risk that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate over time. Because of these limitations, any system of internal operating controls may not be successful in preventing all errors or fraud or in making all material information known in a timely manner to the appropriate levels of management. From time to time, control deficiencies and losses from operational malfunctions or fraud have occurred and may occur in the future. Any future deficiencies, weaknesses or losses related to internal operating control systems could have an adverse effect on our business and, in turn, on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. -19- Table of Contents We may become liable for environmental remediation and other costs on repossessed properties, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. If hazardous or toxic substances are found on these properties, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to our fiduciary responsibilities. Some of the services we provide, such as trust and investment services, require us to act as fiduciaries for our customers and others. From time to time, third parties make claims and take legal action against us pertaining to the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. If these claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, we may be exposed to significant financial liability and/or our reputation could be damaged. Either of these results may adversely impact demand for our products and services or otherwise have a harmful effect on our business and, in turn, on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support our bank subsidiary. As a matter of policy, the Federal Reserve, which examines us and our subsidiaries, expects a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the “source of strength” doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it and therefore may be required to borrow the funds. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company’s cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. The financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and a serious lack of liquidity. If other financial institutions in our markets dispose of real estate collateral at below-market prices to meet liquidity or regulatory requirements, such actions could negatively impact overall real estate values, including properties securing our loans. Our credit risk is exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit exposure due to us. Any such losses could harm our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. -20- Table of Contents Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss of investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties. For example, we execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to increased credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. The short-term and long-term impact of the new Basel III capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for U.S. banks is uncertain. On December 16, 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, or Basel Committee, released the final text of its reforms to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules designed to create a more resilient banking industry. These reforms, known as Basel III, are intended to strengthen the regulatory capital framework by, among other things, (1) raising the quality, consistency and transparency of an institution’s capital base, (2) reducing procyclicality and promoting counter cyclical buffers, (3) enhancing risk coverage, (4) supplementing the risk-based capital requirement with a leverage ratio, and (5) introducing a global liquidity standard. On January 13, 2011, the Basel Committee issued additional criteria to Basel III. This criteria provides that for instruments issued by a bank to be included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital, they must meet or exceed minimum requirements designed to require such instruments to fully absorb losses before taxpayers are exposed to loss. Basel III, as supplemented, has not yet been adopted by the U.S. federal banking authorities. Although the Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury and federal banking regulators have expressed support for Basel III, the timing and scope of its implementation, as well as any potential modifications that may result during the implementation process, are not yet known. Therefore, the short-term and long-term impact of the Basel III capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for U.S. banks is uncertain. Our Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us is subject to regulatory limitations, which, to the extent we are not able to receive such dividends, may impair our ability to grow, pay dividends, cover operating expenses and meet debt service requirements. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank, our only bank subsidiary. Since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries, we depend upon dividends from the Bank for a substantial part of our revenue. Accordingly, our ability to grow, pay dividends, cover operating expenses and meet debt service requirements depends primarily upon the receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us is subject to, among other things, its earnings, financial condition and need for funds, as well as federal and state governmental policies and regulations applicable to us and the Bank, which limit the amount that may be paid as dividends without prior approval. For example, in general, the Bank is limited to paying dividends that do not exceed the current year net profits together with retained earnings from the two preceding calendar years unless the prior consents of the Montana and federal banking regulators are obtained. Furthermore, the terms of our Series A preferred stock, of which 5,000 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2010, prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on any class of our common stock, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for the three prior consecutive dividend periods have been paid. Any reduction or elimination of our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Stock Our dividend policy may change. Although we have historically paid dividends to our stockholders, we have no obligation to continue doing so and may change our dividend policy at any time without notice to our stockholders. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such cash dividends as our Board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, consistent with our strategic plans, growth initiatives, capital availability, projected liquidity needs and other factors, we have made and adopted and will continue to make and adopt, capital management decisions and policies that could adversely impact the amount of dividends paid to our stockholders. -21- Table of Contents The trading volume in our Class A Common Stock has been limited, and an active trading market may not develop. Our Class A common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our Class A common stock is thinly-traded and has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for many other publicly-traded financial institutions and other companies. Therefore, investors have limited opportunities to sell their shares of Class A common stock in the open market. Limited trading of our Class A common stock also contributes to more volatile price fluctuations. An active trading market for our Class A common stock may never develop or be sustained, which could affect your ability to sell your shares and could depress the market price of your shares. Approximately 70% of our outstanding common stock is owned by members of the Scott family, our executive officers and directors and current and former employees. This substantial amount of stock that is owned by these individuals may adversely affect the development of an active and liquid trading market. Our Class A common stock share price could be volatile and could decline. The market price of our Class A common stock is volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • prevailing market conditions; • our historical performance and capital structure; • estimates of our business potential and earnings prospects; • an overall assessment of our management; and • the consideration of these factors in relation to market valuation of companies in related businesses. At times the stock markets, including the NASDAQ Stock Market, on which our Class A common stock is listed, may experience significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock is likely to be similarly volatile and investors in our Class A common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Holders of the Class B common stock have voting control of our company and are able to determine virtually all matters submitted to stockholders, including potential change in control transactions. Members of the Scott family control in excess of 65% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Due to their holdings of common stock, members of the Scott family are able to determine the outcome of virtually all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our articles of incorporation (except when a class vote is required by law), any merger or consolidation requiring common stockholder approval and the sale of all or substantially all of the company’s assets. Accordingly, such holders have the ability to prevent change in control transactions as long as they maintain voting control of the company. In addition, because these holders will have the ability to elect all of our directors they will be able to control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payments of dividends on our common stock and entering into extraordinary transactions, and their interests may not in all cases be aligned with your interests. Further, because of our dual class structure, members of the Scott family will continue to be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholder for approval even if they come to own less than 50% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock. The Scott family members have entered into a stockholder agreement giving family members a right of first refusal to purchase shares of Class B common stock that are intended to be sold or transferred, subject to certain exceptions, by other family members. This agreement may have the effect of continuing ownership of the Class B common stock and control within the Scott family. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. -22- Table of Contents Future equity issuances could result in dilution, which could cause our Class A common stock price to decline. We are not restricted from issuing additional Class A common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, Class A common stock. We may issue additional Class A common stock in the future pursuant to current or future employee stock option plans or in connection with future acquisitions or financings. Should we choose to raise capital by selling shares of Class A common stock for any reason, the issuance would have a dilutive effect on the holders of our Class A common stock and could have a material negative effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. An investment in our Class A common stock is not an insured deposit. Our Class A common stock is not a bank savings account or deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or any other public or private entity. As a result, holders of our common stock could lose some or all of their investment. “Anti-takeover” provisions and the regulations to which we are subject also may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are a financial and bank holding company incorporated in the State of Montana. Anti-takeover provisions in Montana law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as regulatory approvals that would be required under federal law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our Class A common stock. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and could reduce the amount that stockholders might receive if we are sold. Our articles of incorporation provide that our board of directors, or Board, may issue up to 95,000 additional shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, without stockholder approval and with such terms, conditions, rights, privileges and preferences as the Board may deem appropriate. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide for staggered terms for our Board and limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders. In addition, certain provisions of Montana law may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our Class A common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such Class A common stock. Further, the acquisition of specified amounts of our common stock (in some cases, the acquisition or control of more than 5% of our voting stock) may require certain regulatory approvals, including the approval of the Federal Reserve and one or more of our state banking regulatory agencies. The filing of applications with these agencies and the accompanying review process can take several months. Additionally, as discussed above, the holders of the Class B common stock will have voting control of our company. This and the other factors described above may hinder or even prevent a change in control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. We qualify as a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules and may rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. As a result of the combined voting power of the members of the Scott family described above, we qualify as a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. As a controlled company, we may rely on exemptions from certain NASDAQ corporate governance standards that are available to controlled companies, including the requirements that: • a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • the compensation of officers be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and • director nominees be selected, or recommended for the board of directors’ selection, by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter or board resolution addressing the nomination process. As a result, in the future, our compensation and governance & nominating committees may not consist entirely of independent directors. As long as we choose to rely on these exemptions from NASDAQ Marketplace Rules in the future, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. -23- Table of Contents The Class A common stock is equity and is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and to our existing Series A preferred stock. Shares of our Class A common stock are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, shares of our Class A common stock rank junior to all our indebtedness, including our subordinated term loans, the subordinated debentures held by trusts that have issued trust preferred securities and other non-equity claims on us with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on us. Additionally, holders of our Class A common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of any holders of our Series A preferred stock then outstanding. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Or, we may issue additional debt or equity securities as consideration for future mergers and acquisitions. Such additional debt and equity offerings may place restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our Class A common stock. Furthermore, acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common stock may occur in connection with any future transaction. Holders of our Class A common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We are an accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports filed under the Exchange Act. 