Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other financial companies, the Company is subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our direct control. Efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing returns. Among the risks assumed are: (1) credit risk, which is the risk that loan customers or other counterparties will be unable to perform their contractual obligations, (2) market risk, which is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation, (3) liquidity risk, which is the risk that the Company and/or Banks will have insufficient cash or access to cash to meet its operating needs, (4) operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events and (5) common stock marketability risk, which is risk specifically related to the marketability of the Company’s common stock. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference into this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business, future results of operations, and future cash flows. Credit Risk Our business has been adversely affected by unfavorable market conditions in the local economies in which we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and real estate development in our primary markets in coastal Georgia and South Carolina. If these communities do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally remain unfavorable, our business may be adversely impacted. The events in the national economy have filtered down to the Company’s local markets. We are less able than larger institutions to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas. Adverse market or economic conditions in coastal Georgia and South Carolina may disproportionately increase the risk that our borrowers will be unable to make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. The Bluffton/Hilton Head Island (“Bluffton/HHI”) market experienced a pronounced slowdown beginning in 2007 which seriously and adversely affected our residential real estate loans that were originated in that market. The Company has also experienced a slowdown in its other real estate markets. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 89 percent of our loans held for investment were secured by real estate. Of the commercial real estate loans in our portfolio, approximately 31 percent represent properties owned and occupied by businesses to which we have extended loans. The current sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures and losses caused by adverse market and economic conditions in coastal Georgia and South Carolina has adversely affected the value of our assets, our revenues, results of operations and overall financial condition and is likely to continue to at least in the short term. Our business is concentrated in the areas of Chatham and Bryan County, Georgia and southern Beaufort County, South Carolina, which have been negatively impacted by current economic conditions and may be susceptible to natural disasters, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Currently, our lending and other business is concentrated in Chatham and Bryan Counties in Georgia and southern Beaufort County in South Carolina. The current downturn in market conditions in these respective areas has adversely affected the performance of our loans and the results of our operations and financial condition. In particular, Hilton Head Island in southern Beaufort County is a vacation and resort area with high concentrations of second home and investment properties. Further changes in interest rates, local or general economic conditions, real estate values or the income tax deductibility of mortgage interest would subject our markets to greater volatility which would further adversely impact our performance. Additionally, our market area is susceptible to the risk of hurricane disasters and many areas are located in flood zones. While most such losses are insurable, hurricanes and flooding could disrupt our operations or the operations of our borrowers, depositors or other customers. Any such disruption could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 27 - If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual charge-offs, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may continue to experience significant charge-offs which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loans, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. As noted above, our primary markets have experienced a significant slowdown which has necessitated additional provisions for loan losses. If our assumptions are wrong, or if we engage in loan sales, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future charge-offs, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additional provisions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income and adversely affect our “well-capitalized” status. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results and “well-capitalized” status. Economic uncertainty, turmoil in the real estate markets and the tightening of credit have adversely affected the financial services industry and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued economic uncertainty, high unemployment rates and turmoil in the housing and real estate markets, including falling real estate prices and increasing foreclosures have negatively affected the credit performance of loans secured by real estate and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by banks and other financial institutions. Over the last few years, these write-downs have caused many banks and financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with other financial institutions and, in some cases, to fail. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing credit to borrowers, including other financial institutions, which, in turn, led to the global credit crisis. This market turmoil and credit crisis have resulted in an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. As previously noted, our market areas have been adversely impacted by the economic crisis. The degree and timing of economic recovery (or further recovery) remain uncertain. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations and may continue to result in credit losses and write-downs in the future. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and could result in further losses in the future. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our net income and returns on assets and equity, increasing our loan administration costs and adversely affecting our efficiency ratio. When we take collateral in foreclosure and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to its then fair market value, which may result in a loss. These nonperforming loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. We may engage in loan sales or take other measures to reduce nonperforming assets. Any such resolution measures regarding nonperforming assets may require significant time commitments from management and may be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. Further, if we experience increases in nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets, our net interest income may be negatively impacted and our loan administration costs could increase, each of which could have an adverse effect on our net income and related ratios, such as return on assets and equity. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 28 - Market Risk Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings are significantly dependent on our net interest income. We expect to realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” would work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. For example, in the event of a decrease in interest rates, our net interest income will be negatively affected because our interest-bearing assets currently reprice faster than our interest-bearing liabilities. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control our risk from changes in market interest rates, we may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our variable rate loans have interest rate floors such that the loans will not reprice immediately when interest rates begin to rise. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or result in our lenders requiring additional collateral from us under our loan agreements. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are less favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. While rising interest rates are favorable to us, declining rates, like those experienced during 2007 and 2008, generally have a negative impact on earnings. There can be no assurance or guarantee that declining rates will not continue to negatively impact earnings or that we will be able to take measures to hedge, on favorable terms or at all, against unfavorable events, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Monetary policies may adversely affect our business and earnings. Our results of operations may be affected by actions undertaken by the Fed (including, raising and lowering short-term interest rates) to influence the availability and cost of money and credit. Changes in interest rates can affect the number of loans the Subsidiary Banks originate, as well as the value of the loans and other interest-bearing assets and liabilities and the Subsidiary Banks’ ability to realize gains on the sale of those assets and liabilities. Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which borrowers prepay loans owned by us. When interest rates decrease, borrowers are more likely to prepay their loans, and vice versa. We may be required to invest funds generated by prepayments at less favorable interest rates. Increases in interest rates could hurt the ability of borrowers who have loans with floating interest rates to meet their increased payment obligations. If those borrowers were not able to make their payments, then we could suffer losses, and our level of nonperforming assets could increase. The loss of significant revenues in Minis could result in lower operating earnings as well as significant non-cash charges to earnings related to the impairment of goodwill and accelerated amortization of the client list intangible asset. Asset management fee revenues are directly impacted by the total investments under management. The assets under management are impacted by stock values, bond values, interest rates and the gain or loss of accounts due primarily to investment performance. As prescribed by accounting standards we undertake an annual review of the goodwill and intangible asset balance reflected in our financial statements. We conduct an annual review for impairment or at any time an event occurs or circumstances change that may trigger a decline in the value of the reporting unit. Goodwill and the client list intangible asset were evaluated for impairment as of August 31, 2011 and based on that evaluation it was determined that there was no impairment. As of December 31, 2011, we had $3.3 million in goodwill and intangible asset related to Minis. Future goodwill impairment tests may result in future non-cash charges, which could adversely affect our earnings for any such future period. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 29 - Liquidity Risk Our use of brokered deposits, uninsured local deposits and other borrowings may impair our liquidity and constitute an unstable and/or higher cost funding source. We use wholesale, institutional and brokered deposits, uninsured local deposits and other borrowings, including repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, and FHLB borrowings, to fund a portion of our operations. Currently neither Savannah nor Bryan Bank can accept or renew brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval due to agreements with regulators. Savannah is currently allowed to maintain up to $35 million in a brokered money market account and $35 million in a brokered deposit reciprocal program that allows our local customers’ deposits to be insured. Federal law requires a bank to be well-capitalized if it accepts or renews brokered deposits. Thus, the Company and Savannah must maintain a “well-capitalized” status to continue to be able to maintain the brokered deposits described above. Failure to maintain “well-capitalized” status could also limit our access to certain wholesale deposits and federal funds purchased (but not necessarily repurchase agreements or FHLB or FRB borrowings), which could impair our liquidity. We will be considered “well-capitalized” if we (i) have a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0 percent or greater; (ii) have a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0 percent or greater; and (iii) have a leverage ratio of 5.0 percent or greater. At December 31, 2011 both Savannah and Bryan Bank were considered well-capitalized. However, Bryan Bank’s Order, which Bryan Bank entered into with the with the FDIC and the GDBF in March 2012, after the reporting period, has a capital article that requires Bryan Bank to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.00 percent and total risk-based capital ratio of 10.00 percent. The capital article automatically changes Bryan Bank’s capital status to “adequately capitalized” even though its ratios currently exceeds the regulatory ratios required to be considered “well capitalized.” Although Bryan Bank is already restricted from accepting or renewing brokered deposits, this Order could limit its ability to borrow on its federal funds purchased lines, FHLB borrowing line and from the FRB discount window. Deposit balances in excess of the FDIC’s $250,000 insurance limit per depositor are uninsured deposits. Customers with uninsured deposits are more sensitive to financial or reputation risk than insured depositors. Consequently, uninsured deposits generally do not provide the same stability to our deposit base as insured deposits. Our liquidity may be negatively affected by a decline in uninsured deposits due to a loss of investor confidence and a flight to insured deposits at other financial institutions. Through the Dodd-Frank Act, unlimited insurance coverage on noninterest-bearing transaction accounts was extended until December 31, 2012. Diminished access to alternative sources of liquidity could adversely affect our net income, net interest margin and our overall liquidity. We currently have and historically have had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but given the recent and dramatic downturn in the credit and liquidity markets, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. For example, the cost of out-of-market deposits could exceed the cost of deposits of similar maturity in our local market area, making them unattractive sources of funding; financial institutions may be unwilling to extend credit to banks because of concerns about the banking industry and the economy generally; and, given recent downturns in the economy, there may not be a viable market for raising equity capital. Sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity and funding management strategy, include borrowings from the FHLB and the FRB Atlanta, internet certificates of deposit and certain brokered deposits. If our access to these sources of liquidity is diminished or only available on unfavorable terms, then our income, net interest margin and our overall liquidity likely would be adversely affected. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 30 - Changes in the cost and availability of funding due to changes in the deposit market and credit market, or the way in which we are perceived in such markets, may adversely affect our financial results. In general, the amount, type and cost of our funding, including from other financial institutions, the capital markets and deposits, directly impact our costs in operating our business and growing our assets and therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, financial results and losses, changes within our organization, specific events that adversely impact our reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. Also, we compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources than we do. If these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, these advantages may increase. Competition from these institutions may increase the cost of funds. A promissory note contains financial covenants and a guarantee of the Company. The Company has a related party promissory note (“Note”) in the amount of $8.6 million as of December 31, 2011. The Note is secured by the unconditional guarantee of the Company and SAVB Holdings’ blanket assignment or pledge of all of its assets and the proceeds thereof to the Note’s holder. The Note contains the following financial covenants: (i) during the term of the Note, the dividends paid out by the Company, on a quarterly basis, shall not exceed 50 percent of the Company’s after tax net income for the preceding quarter; (ii) Savannah and Bryan Bank shall each maintain a “well-capitalized” status as determined by the OCC and the GDBF, respectively; (iii) on the last day of each calendar quarter during the term of the Note, SAVB Holdings shall maintain a loan-to-value ratio of at least 1.00:1.00; and (iv) on the last day of each calendar quarter during the term of the Note, the amount of nonperforming assets of the Company shall not exceed 4.75 percent of the total assets of the Company. The Company’s non-compliance with any of the aforementioned covenants would result in an increase in the interest rate payable pursuant to the Note by 200 basis points in the event of noncompliance with the covenants described in (i), (ii) or (iii) above. The Company’s non-compliance with the covenant described in (iv) above would result in an increase in the interest rate payable pursuant to the Note by 50 basis points. Additionally, the covenants state that if the amount of nonperforming assets of the Company exceeds 5.25 percent of the total assets, then interest rate payable on the Note would increase an additional 200 basis points. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s ratio of nonperforming assets to total assets was 5.60 percent which exceeded both of the limits stated in the Note’s covenants related to the ratio of nonperforming assets to total assets. The interest rate payable on the Note was increased 50 basis points to 8.00 percent for exceeding the limit of 4.75 percent of nonperforming assets to total assets of the Company during the third quarter of 2011. The interest rate payable should have increased an additional 200 basis points to 10.00 percent during the fourth quarter of 2011 for exceeding the limit of 5.25 percent of nonperforming assets to total assets of the Company; however, the Company obtained a waiver from the related party lenders on this covenant and the interest rate payable remained at 8.00 percent as of December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the Company met all the other covenants contained in the Note. Operational Risk Future departures of our key personnel may impair our operations. We are, and for the foreseeable future will be, dependent on the services of John C. Helmken II, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Chief Executive Officer of Savannah; R. Stephen Stramm, Executive Vice President – Lending of the Company and of Savannah; Michael W. Harden, Jr., Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Savannah; Jerry O’Dell Keith, a Senior Vice President of the Company and President and CEO of Bryan Bank, and Holden T. Hayes, a Senior Vice President of the Company and President of Savannah. Should the services of any of Messrs. Helmken, Stramm, Harden, Keith or Hayes become unavailable, there can be no assurance that a suitable successor could be found who will be willing to be employed upon terms and conditions acceptable to us. A failure to replace any of these individuals promptly, should his services become unavailable, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial performance. These risks are heightened by the fact that none of these officers has entered into employment agreements with the Company or the Subsidiary Banks. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 31 - We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Currently, both Savannah and Bryan Bank have agreed with their primary regulators to maintain capital levels that are higher than the statutory regulations for a well capitalized bank. Savannah has agreed with the OCC to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.00 percent and total risk-based capital ratio of 12.00 percent, which it currently exceeds. Bryan Bank has agreed with the FDIC and GDBF to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.00 percent and a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.00 percent, which it currently exceeds. We do, however, continue to evaluate the need to raise additional capital to support future growth, to support potential loan and nonperforming asset sales, or to enhance our capital in view of possible further deterioration of economic conditions. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot give any assurances of our ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our overall financial condition could be materially impaired. Our industry operates in a highly regulated environment. New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations affecting the banking industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company and the Banks are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision under various state and federal laws, rules and regulations, primarily the rules and regulations of the OCC, FDIC, GDBF, SEC and the FRB. These laws and regulations are designed primarily to protect depositors, borrowers, and the deposit insurance funds of the FDIC. These regulators maintain significant authority to impose requirements on our overall operations, such as limiting certain activities. The financial services industry is subject to frequent legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes, the effects of which cannot be predicted. In November 2009, the FDIC issued a rule that required all insured depository institutions, with limited exceptions, to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. On December 30, 2009, we prepaid $5.1 million of FDIC insurance premiums. As of December 31, 2011, $2.2 million of the prepaid deposit insurance premiums remained. Any future increases by the FDIC in assessments or future required prepayments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. We are subject to regulation, examination and scrutiny by a number of regulatory authorities and, depending upon the findings and determinations of our regulatory authorities, we may be required to make adjustments to our business, operations or financial position and could become subject to additional formal or informal regulatory orders. The Company, each of the Subsidiary Banks, and each of their affiliated entities, are subject to examination by federal and state banking regulators. Federal and state regulators have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on the Company and the Subsidiary Banks and their affiliates if they determine, upon conclusion of their examination or otherwise, violations of laws with which the Company or the Subsidiary Banks must comply, or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety and soundness, including, for example, in respect of any financial concerns that the regulators may identify and desire for us to address. Such enforcement may be formal or informal and can include directors’ resolutions, memoranda of understanding, cease and desist orders, civil money penalties and termination of deposit insurance and bank closures. Enforcement actions may be taken regardless of the capital levels of the institutions and regardless of prior examination findings. In particular, institutions that are not sufficiently capitalized in accordance with regulatory standards may also face capital directives or prompt corrective actions. Enforcement actions may require certain corrective steps (including staff additions or changes), impose limits on activities (such as lending, deposit taking, acquisitions or branching), prescribe lending parameters (such as loan types, volumes and terms) and require additional capital to be raised, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any such imposition of regulatory sanctions, including monetary penalties, may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and may cause damage to our reputation and loss of our financial services holding company status. In addition, compliance with any such action could distract management’s attention from our operations, cause us to incur significant expenses, restrict us from engaging in potentially profitable activities, and limit our ability to raise capital. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 32 - Savannah is subject to the Agreement with the OCC and, as of March 1, 2012, Bryan Bank is subject to the Order with the FDIC and the GDBF. Savannah’s Agreement and Bryan Bank’s Order require the Subsidiary Banks to take steps to improve asset quality, credit risk exposure, strategic planning initiatives, capital planning, and liquidity and risk management and subject the Subsidiary Banks to heightened capital requirements. Currently, both Savannah and Bryan Bank meet or exceed the requirements of the Agreement and the Order, as applicable to the Subsidiary Banks. The Subsidiary Banks could become subject to additional formal or informal regulatory orders, which may impose further requirements on the Subsidiary Banks affecting the business and results of operations of the Subsidiary Banks. We face substantial competition in our industry sector from banking and financial institutions that have larger and greater financial and marketing capabilities, which may hinder our ability to compete successfully. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive. This competitiveness may negatively impact our ability to retain qualified management and loan officers, raise sufficient deposits at an acceptable price, and attract customers. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial providers. We compete with many different banking and financial institutions, including banks and savings and loan associations, credit unions, brokerage and investment banking firms, and mortgage companies and brokers. These entities may be branches or subsidiaries of much larger organizations affiliated with statewide, regional or national banking companies and, as a result, may have greater resources and lower costs of funds. These entities may also be start-up organizations. Any of these entities may attempt to duplicate our business plan and strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in the future. Failure to implement our business strategies may adversely affect our financial performance. Our management has developed a business plan that details the strategies we intend to implement in our efforts to continue profitable operations. If we cannot implement our business strategies, we may be hampered in our ability to develop business and serve our customers, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Even if our business strategies are successfully implemented, they may not have the favorable impact on operations that we anticipate. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our operations depend upon, among other things, our infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking or viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of our control could have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on our ability to conduct business. Our disaster recovery and business resumption contingency plans may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or other authoritative bodies, could materially impact our financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other authoritative bodies change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 33 - Non-compliance with the Patriot Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions. The Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the Treasury’s FinCEN. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. We have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations. The FRB may require the Company to commit capital resources to support the Subsidiary Banks. The FRB, which examines the Company and its non-bank subsidiaries, has a policy stating that a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the source of strength doctrine, the FRB may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank, and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. Capital injections may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it, and, therefore, may be required to borrow the funds. Loans from a holding company to its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, the bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and may adversely impact the holding company’s results of operations and cash flows. The failure of other financial institutions, both nationally and in our market area, could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine transactions, including, for example, funding transactions, could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions nationally and in our market area. From January 2009 until February 2012, 70 of the 408 bank closings nationally, or approximately 17 percent, have occurred in the State of Georgia. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions with which we do business or the financial services industry generally have led and could in the future lead to market-wide liquidity problems, which could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be sold at prices that are sufficient for us to recover the full amount of our exposure. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Sustained weakness in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: · a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; · a decrease in the fair value of nonperforming assets or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; · an increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments; or · an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 34 - Any such increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans. The impact of emergency measures designed to stabilize the U.S. banking system is unknown. Since mid-2008, a host of legislation and regulatory actions have been implemented in response to the financial crisis and the recession. Some of the programs are beginning to expire and the impact of the wind-down of these programs on the financial sector, including the Company and our subsidiaries, and on the economic recovery is unknown. These include: · The Troubled Asset Relief Program, established pursuant to the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, expired on October 3, 2010. · Since 2008, the Fed has purchased several trillion dollars of mortgage-related assets in order to support the mortgage lending industry during the financial crisis. At some point in the future, the Fed will begin to reduce its balance sheet as the financial crisis appears to abate, with the result that the supply of mortgage related assets on the market may increase substantially. · As part of its response to the financial crisis, the Fed has maintained interest rates at historically low levels. The Fed has indicated that rates will remain low for several years. In addition, a stall in the economic recovery could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The small to medium-sized businesses we lend to may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan to us and could materially harm our operating results. The Subsidiary Banks make loans to professional firms and privately owned businesses that are considered to be small to medium-sized businesses. Small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial volatility in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small and medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay our loan. A continued economic downturn and other events that negatively impact our target markets could cause us to incur substantial loan losses that could materially harm our operating results. The Dodd-Frank Act could increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry. To date, there are a number of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have not taken effect and many important provisions require implementing rules to become effective. The overall effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company and on the financial services industry as a whole will be clarified as those provisions take effect and the implementing regulations are issued. The Dodd-Frank Act addresses a number of issues including capital requirements, compliance and risk management, debit card overdraft fees, healthcare, incentive compensation, expanded disclosures and corporate governance. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the CFPB which will have broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards. Moreover, states will be permitted to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and can enforce consumer protection rules issued by the CFPB. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 35 - While we cannot predict the full impact on the Company and its subsidiaries, the Dodd-Frank Act will likely increase our regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on us, including increasing the costs associated with our regulatory examinations and compliance measures. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the resulting regulations promulgated by federal agencies, may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes to comply with new laws and regulations. Future legislation could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Congress is considering additional proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Such legislation may significantly change existing banking statutes and regulations, as well as our current operating environment. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, impose new operational requirements, increase our consumer compliance obligations, limit or expand our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The short- and long-term impact of a new capital framework is uncertain. The capital requirements applicable to the Company and the Subsidiary Banks are subject to change as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the international regulatory capital initiative known as Basel III and any other future government actions. In December 2010, Basel finalized new regulatory capital standards, known as Basel III. The standards, which mandate a higher minimum level of common equity to be held by financial institutions along with a capital conservation buffer to withstand future periods of stress, are subject to individual adoption by member nations, including the U.S. It is anticipated that U.S. regulators will adopt new regulatory capital requirements similar to those proposed by Basel to be phased-in for U.S. financial institutions beginning in 2013. Furthermore, it is widely anticipated that the capital requirements for most bank and bank holding companies, as well as for most insured depository institutions, will increase, although the nature and amounts of the increase have not yet been specified. Complying with any higher capital requirements mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act and new capital standards brought about by Basel III implementation may have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 36 - Common Stock Marketability Risk Our authorized preferred stock exposes holders of our common stock to certain risks. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share. The authorized but unissued preferred stock constitutes what is commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock. This type of preferred stock may be issued by us, at the direction of our Board, from time to time on any number of occasions, without shareholder approval, as one or more separate series of shares comprised of any number of the authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock, designated by resolution of the Board stating (i) the dividend rate or the amount of dividends to be paid thereon, whether dividends shall be cumulative and, if so, from which date(s), the payment date(s) for dividends, and the participating or other special rights, if any, with respect to dividends; (ii) the voting powers, full or limited, if any, of shares of such series; (iii) whether the shares of such series shall be redeemable and, if so, the price(s) at which, and the terms and conditions on which, such shares may be redeemed; (iv) the amount(s) payable upon the shares of such series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company; (v) whether the shares of such series shall be entitled to the benefit of a sinking or retirement fund to be applied to the purchase or redemption of such shares, and if so entitled, the amount of such fund and the manner of its application, including the price or prices at which such shares may be redeemed or purchased through the application of such funds; (vi) whether the shares of such series shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes of stock of the Company, and, if so, the conversion price(s), or the rate(s) of exchange, and the adjustments thereof, if any, at which such conversion or exchange may be made, and any other terms and conditions of such conversion and exchange; (vii) the price or other consideration for which the shares of such series shall be issued; (viii) whether the shares of such series which are redeemed or converted shall have the status of authorized but unissued shares of serial preferred stock and whether such shares may be reissued as shares of the same or any other series of serial preferred stock; and (ix) whether the shares of such series shall be entitled to other rights, preferences and privileges. Such preferred stock may provide our Board the ability to hinder or discourage any attempt to gain control of us by a merger, tender offer at a control premium price, proxy contest or otherwise. Consequently, the preferred stock could entrench our management. The market price of our common stock could be depressed to some extent by the existence of the preferred stock. In addition, if the perferred stock is convertible into the Company's common stock, such conversion may dilute the percentage ownership of existing shareholders of the Company's common stock. Moreover, any preferred stock that is issued will rank ahead of our common stock, in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation preferences and may have greater voting rights than the Company’s common stock. No shares of preferred stock have been issued as of December 31, 2011. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, our directors and executive officers, collectively, beneficially owned approximately 16 percent of our outstanding common stock. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers, as a group, have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, even if their interests conflict with those of other shareholders, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The OCC, FDIC, GDBF, FRB or other entities may impose dividend payment and other restrictions on the Subsidiary Banks and the Company which would impact our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. The OCC, FDIC and the GDBF are the primary regulatory agencies that examine the Subsidiary Banks. The FRB is the regulatory agency that examines the Company. Under certain circumstances, including any determination that the activities of a holding company, a bank or their subsidiaries constitute unsafe and unsound banking practices, the regulators have the authority, by statute, to restrict the holding company’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders as well as the subsidiary bank’s ability to transfer assets, make shareholder distributions, and redeem preferred securities or pay dividends to the parent company. Although the Company is not presently subject to any direct regulatory restrictions on dividends (other than those of Georgia corporate law), the Company has agreed with the FRB Atlanta to obtain approval prior to paying or declaring any dividends to shareholders. Further, as more fully discussed in the section titled Narrative Description of Business; Federal and State Laws and Regulation of Banks and Bank Holding Companies; Other Statutes and Regulations of Item 1 above, Savannah and Bryan Bank have agreed with their primary banking regulators to obtain approval prior to paying or declaring any dividends to the Company. In addition, as noted previously, one of our loan agreements contains a covenant that restricts quarterly dividends to 50 percent of quarterly net income. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 37 - Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may deter potential acquirers and may depress our stock price. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws divide our Board into three classes, as nearly equal as possible, with staggered three-year terms. Business combinations, such as sales or mergers involving us, require the approval of a majority of shareholders as well as the recommendation for such business combination by at least two-thirds of the continuing directors, or in the alternative, unanimously recommended by the continuing directors, provided that the continuing directors constitute at least three members of the Board at the time of such approval. Shareholders may remove directors with or without cause upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75 percent of the outstanding voting shares of the Company and the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75 percent of the outstanding voting shares of the Company other than those of which an interested shareholder is the beneficial owner. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company. In addition, the above provisions may be altered only pursuant to specified shareholder action. With several specific exceptions, our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws are silent with respect to the amendment of our Articles of Incorporation, and thus, the Georgia Business Corporations Code (“GBCC”) dictates the requirements for making such an amendment. The GBCC generally provides that, other than in the case of certain routine amendments (such as changing the corporate name) and other amendments, which the GBCC specifically allows without shareholder action, the corporation’s board of directors must recommend any amendment of the Articles of Incorporation to the shareholders (unless the board elects to make no such recommendation because of a conflict of interest or other special circumstances and the board communicates the reasons for its election to the shareholders) and the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the amendment by each voting group entitled to vote on the amendment (unless the GBCC, the articles of incorporation, or the board of directors require a greater percentage of votes) is required to amend our Articles of Incorporation. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that the provisions regarding the approval required for certain business combinations may only be changed by the affirmative vote of at least 75 percent of the outstanding voting shares of the Company and the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75 percent of the outstanding shares of the Company other than those of which an interested shareholder is the beneficial owner. Our Articles of Incorporation also provide that the provisions regarding the applicability of Article 11, Parts 2 and 3 of the GBCC (regarding mergers and share exchanges) to the Company may only be repealed by both the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the continuing directors and a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by voting shares of the Company, in addition to any other vote required by our Articles of Incorporation. Our Bylaws generally provide that the Bylaws may be altered or amended by our shareholders at any annual meeting or special meeting of the shareholders or by our Board at any regular or special meeting of the Company’s Board. The existence of the above provisions could result in our being less attractive to a potential acquirer, or result in our shareholders receiving less for their shares of common voting stock than otherwise might be available if there were a takeover attempt. We have certain obligations and the general ability to issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, which future issuances may depress the price of our common stock. We have various obligations to issue additional shares of common stock in the future. These obligations include non-qualified and incentive stock options as detailed in Note 15 on page F-29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2011 Annual Report. The options permit the holders to purchase shares of our common stock at specified prices. These purchase prices may be less than the then current market price of our common stock. Any shares of our common stock issued pursuant to these options would dilute the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. The terms on which we could obtain additional capital during the life of these options may be adversely affected because of such potential dilution. In addition, we may issue additional shares in the future. There are no preemptive rights in connection with our common stock. The percentage ownership of existing shareholders may be diluted if we issue additional shares in the future. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 38 - For issuances of shares and grants of options, our Board will determine the timing and size of the issuances and grants and the consideration or services required thereof. Our Board intends to use its reasonable business judgment to fulfill its fiduciary obligations to our then existing shareholders in connection with any such issuance or grant. Nonetheless, future issuances of additional shares could cause immediate and substantial dilution to the net tangible book value of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding immediately before such transaction. Any future decrease in the net tangible book value of such issued and outstanding shares could materially and adversely affect the market value of the shares. Sales of large quantities of our common stock could reduce the market price of our common stock. Any sales of large quantities of shares of our common stock, or the perception that any such sales are likely to occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. If holders sell large quantities of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may decrease and the public market for our common stock may otherwise be adversely affected because of the additional shares available in the market. Our common stock has experienced only limited trading. Our common stock is quoted and traded on the NASDAQ Global Market in the United States under the symbol “SAVB”. The trading volume in our common stock has been relatively low when compared with larger companies quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market or listed on the other stock exchanges. We cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for you to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which you could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the market price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, there were 7,199,136 shares of common stock outstanding. The price of our common stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including the following: · The depth and liquidity of the markets for our common stock; · Investor perception of us and the industry in which we participate; · General economic and market conditions; · Responses to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; · Earnings relative to securities analysts’ estimates; · Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · Conditions, trends or announcements in the banking industry; · Announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; · Additions or departures of key personnel; · Accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting rules that affect our financial statements; and · Other factors and events beyond our control. The market price of our common stock could experience significant fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance. As a result, an investor (due to personal circumstances) may be required to sell their shares of our common stock at a time when our stock price is depressed due to random fluctuations, possibly based on factors beyond our control. SAVB 2011 Form 10-K - 39 - Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and the value of your investment may decline. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price. The stock market in general, and the market for commercial banks and other financial services companies in particular, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Furthermore, the value of your investment may decline, and you may be unable to sell your shares of our common stock at or above the offering price. A holder with as little as a 5 percent interest in the Company could, under certain circumstances, be subject to certain restrictions, including regulation as a “bank holding company.” Any entity (including a group of investors acting in concert) owning 25 percent or more of our outstanding common stock, or 5 percent or more if such holder otherwise exercises a “controlling influence” over us, may be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” in accordance with the BHCA. In addition, (i) any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence may be required to obtain the approval of the FRB under the BHCA to acquire or retain 5 percent or more of our outstanding common stock and (ii) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain regulatory approval under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, to acquire or retain 10 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. Becoming a bank holding company imposes certain statutory and regulatory restrictions and burdens, and might require the holder to divest all or a portion of the holder’s investment in our common stock. In addition, because a bank holding company is required to provide managerial and financial strength for its bank subsidiary, such a holder may be required to divest investments that may be deemed incompatible with bank holding company status, such as a material investment in a company engaged in activities unrelated to banking. Further, subject to an FDIC policy statement published in August 2009 (and clarified in January and April 2010), under certain circumstances, holders of 5 percent or more of our securities could be subject to certain restrictions, such as an inability to sell or trade their securities for a period of three years, among others, in order for us to participate in an FDIC-assisted transaction of a failed bank. An entity (or group of investors) that owns or controls 10 percent or more of our common securities but less than 25 percent and that seeks to avoid designation as a bank holding company will be required to enter into passivity commitments with the FRB that prevent the entity from exercising control. The FRB also may require passivity commitments from an entity that owns or controls 5 percent or more of any class of our voting securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 