Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other financial companies, the Company is subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our direct control. Efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing returns. Among the risks assumed are: (1) credit risk, which is the risk that loan customers or other counterparties will be unable to perform their contractual obligations, (2) market risk, which is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation, (3) liquidity risk, which is the risk that the Company and/or Banks will have insufficient cash or access to cash to meet its operating needs, (4) operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events and (5) common stock marketability risk, which is risk specifically related to the marketability of the Company’s common stock. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference into this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business, future results of operations, and future cash flows. Credit Risk Our business is affected by the strength of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and real estate development in our primary markets in coastal Georgia and South Carolina. If these communities do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be adversely impacted. The events in the national economy have filtered down to the Company’s local markets. We are less able than larger institutions to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas. Any adverse market or economic conditions in coastal Georgia and South Carolina may disproportionately increase the risk that our borrowers will be unable to make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. The Bluffton/Hilton Head Island (“Bluffton/HHI”) market experienced a pronounced slowdown beginning in 2007 which seriously and adversely affected our residential real estate loans that were originated in that market. The Company has also experienced a slowdown in its other real estate markets. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 88% of our loans held for investment were secured by real estate. Of the commercial real estate loans in our portfolio, approximately 39% represent properties owned and occupied by businesses to which we have extended loans. The current sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures and losses caused by adverse market and economic conditions in coastal Georgia and South Carolina has adversely affected the value of our assets, our revenues, results of operations and overall financial condition and is likely to continue to at least in the short term. SAVB 2009 Form 10-K - 16 - Our business is concentrated in the areas of Chatham and Bryan County, Georgia and southern Beaufort County, South Carolina. Currently, our lending and other business is concentrated in Chatham and Bryan Counties in Georgia and southern Beaufort County in South Carolina. The current downturn in market conditions in these respective areas has adversely affected the performance of our loans and the results of our operations and financial condition. In particular, Hilton Head Island in southern Beaufort County is a vacation and resort area with high concentrations of second home and investment properties. Further changes in interest rates, local or general economic conditions, real estate values or the income tax deductibility of mortgage interest would subject our markets to greater volatility which would further adversely impact our performance. Additionally, our market area is susceptible to the risk of hurricane disasters and many areas are located in flood zones. While most such losses are insurable, hurricanes and flooding could adversely affect operations and our financial condition. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual charge-offs, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may continue to experience significant charge-offs which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loans, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any charge-offs which may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. As noted above, the Bluffton/HHI market experienced a significant slowdown beginning in 2007 which necessitated additional provisions for loan losses. Our Georgia markets are experiencing a slowdown as well. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future charge-offs, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additional provisions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income and adversely affect our “well-capitalized” status. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results and “well-capitalized” status. Market Risk Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings are significantly dependent on our net interest income. We expect to realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience "gaps" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this "gap" would work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. For example, in the event of a decrease in interest rates, our net interest income will be negatively affected because our interest-bearing assets currently reprice faster than our interest-bearing liabilities. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control our risk from changes in market interest rates, we may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our variable rate loans have interest rate floors such that the loans will not reprice immediately when interest rates begin to rise. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. SAVB 2009 Form 10-K - 17 - A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or result in our lenders requiring additional collateral from us under our loan agreements. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are less favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. While rising interest rates are favorable to us, declining rates, like those experienced during 2007 and 2008, generally have a negative impact on earnings. There can be no assurance or guarantee that declining rates will not continue to negatively impact earnings or that we will be able to take measures to hedge, on favorable terms or at all, against unfavorable events, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Monetary policies may adversely affect our business and earnings. Our results of operations are affected by the policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Fed. Changes in interest rates can affect the number of loans we originate, as well as the value of our loans and other interest-bearing assets and liabilities and the ability to realize gains on the sale of those assets and liabilities. Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which borrowers prepay loans owned by us. When interest rates decrease, borrowers are more likely to prepay their loans, and vice versa. We may be required to invest funds generated by prepayments at less favorable interest rates. Increases in interest rates could hurt the ability of borrowers who have loans with floating interest rates to meet their increased payment obligations. If those borrowers were not able to make their payments, then we could suffer losses, and our level of nonperforming assets could increase. The loss of significant revenues in Minis could result in lower operating earnings as well as significant non-cash charges to earnings related to the impairment of goodwill and accelerated amortization of the client list intangible asset. Asset management fee revenues are directly impacted by the total investments under management. The assets under management are impacted by stock values, bond values, interest rates and the gain or loss of accounts due primarily to investment performance. Minis’ selling shareholders have significant earn-out incentives to maintain and increase revenues through June 2010. However, events and decisions beyond their control can negatively impact assets under management and the related revenues from such assets. Liquidity Risk Our use of brokered deposits, uninsured local deposits and other borrowings may impair our liquidity and constitute an unstable and/or higher cost funding source. We use wholesale, institutional and brokered deposits, uninsured local deposits and other borrowings, including repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, FRB discount window borrowings and FHLB borrowings, to fund a portion of our operations. Federal law requires a bank to be well-capitalized if it accepts new brokered deposits. Thus, the Company and the Banks must maintain a "well-capitalized" status to meet our funding plans. Failure to maintain "well-capitalized" status would limit our access to wholesale and brokered deposits and federal funds purchased (but not necessarily repurchase agreements or FHLB or FRB borrowings), which could impair our liquidity. We will be considered "well-capitalized" if we (i) have a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0 percent or greater; (ii) have a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0 percent or greater; (iii) have a leverage ratio of 5.0 percent or greater; and (iv) are not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by the FDIC to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. Depositors that invest in brokered deposits are generally interest rate sensitive and well informed about alternative markets and investments. Consequently, funding with brokered deposits may not provide the same stability to our deposit base as traditional local retail deposit relationships. Our liquidity may be negatively affected if brokered deposit supply declines due to a loss of investor confidence or a flight to higher quality investments such as U.S. Treasury securities. In addition, brokered deposits historically have a higher rate of interest than core local deposits. Deposit balances in excess of the FDIC's $250,000 insurance limit (through December 31, 2013) per depositor are uninsured deposits. Customers with uninsured deposits are more sensitive to financial or reputation risk than insured depositors. Consequently, uninsured deposits do not provide the same stability to our deposit base as insured deposits. Our liquidity may be negatively affected by a decline in uninsured deposits due to a loss of investor confidence and a flight to insured deposits at other financial institutions. SAVB 2009 Form 10-K - 18 - The Subsidiary Banks participate in the FDIC’s voluntary TAGP. Under the TAGP the FDIC will provide full FDIC deposit insurance coverage for non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, NOW accounts paying less than 0.50 percent interest per annum, and Interest and Lawyers Trust Accounts held at participating FDIC insured institutions through June 30, 2010. Operational Risk Future departures of our key personnel may impair our operations. We are, and for the foreseeable future will be, dependent on the services of John C. Helmken II, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Chief Executive Officer of Savannah; E. James Burnsed, Vice Chairman of the Company and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Bryan Bank; R. Stephen Stramm, Executive Vice President – Lending of the Company and of Savannah; Michael W. Harden, Jr., Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Savannah; Jerry O’Dell Keith, a Vice President of the Company and President of Bryan Bank, and Holden T. Hayes, President of Savannah. Should the services of any of Messrs. Helmken, Burnsed, Stramm, Harden, Keith or Hayes become unavailable, there can be no assurance that a suitable successor could be found who will be willing to be employed upon terms and conditions acceptable to us. A failure to replace any of these individuals promptly, should his services become unavailable, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial performance. These risks are heightened by the fact that none of these officers have entered into employment agreements with the Company or Banks. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We believe that our current capital resources are sufficient in the short term. We do, however, continue to evaluate the need to raise additional capital to support growth and a possible further deterioration of current economic conditions. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot give any assurances of our ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our overall financial condition could be materially impaired. Our industry operates in a highly regulated environment. New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations affecting the banking industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company and the Banks are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision under various state and federal laws, rules and regulations, primarily the rules and regulations of the OCC, FDIC, GDBF, SEC and the FRB. These laws and regulations are designed primarily to protect depositors, borrowers, and the deposit insurance funds of the FDIC. These regulators maintain significant authority to impose requirements on our overall operations, such as limiting certain activities or mandating the increase of capital levels. The financial services industry also is subject to frequent legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes, the effects of which cannot be predicted. In February 2009, the FDIC adopted a long-term deposit insurance fund (“DIF”) restoration plan as well as an additional emergency assessment for 2009. The restoration plan increases base assessment rates for banks in all risk categories with the goal of raising the DIF reserve ratio. Banks in the best risk category paid initial base rates ranging from 12 to 16 basis points of assessable deposits beginning April 1, 2009. Additionally, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a special emergency assessment on all financial institutions of 5 basis points of total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. Our special emergency assessment totaled $425,000 and was collected on September 30, 2009. The FDIC is also permitted to impose an emergency special assessment after June 30, 2009 of up to 10 basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. The FDIC has not to date imposed such an assessment. The increase in assessments by the FDIC could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. SAVB 2009 Form 10-K - 19 - On November 12, 2009, the FDIC imposed a requirement on all financial institutions to prepay three years of FDIC insurance premiums. On December 30, 2009, we prepaid $5.1 million of FDIC insurance premiums for the next three years. We face substantial competition in our industry sector from banking and financial institutions that have larger and greater financial and marketing capabilities, which may hinder our ability to compete successfully. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive. This competitiveness may negatively impact our ability to retain qualified management and loan officers, raise sufficient deposits at an acceptable price, and attract customers. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial providers. We compete with many different banking and financial institutions, including banks and savings and loan associations, credit unions, brokerage and investment banking firms, and mortgage companies and brokers. These entities may be branches or subsidiaries of much larger organizations affiliated with statewide, regional or national banking companies and, as a result, may have greater resources and lower costs of funds. These entities may also be start-up organizations. Any of these entities may attempt to duplicate our business plan and strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in the future. Failure to implement our business strategies may adversely affect our financial performance. Our management has developed a business plan that details the strategies we intend to implement in our efforts to continue profitable operations. If we cannot implement our business strategies, we may be hampered in our ability to develop business and serve our customers, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Even if our business strategies are successfully implemented, they may not have the favorable impact on operations that we anticipate. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our operations depend upon, among other things, our infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking or viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of our control could have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition in particular. Our disaster recovery and business resumption contingency plans may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Non-compliance with the Patriot Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions. The Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the Treasury’s FinCEN. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. We have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations. The FRB may require the Company to commit capital resources to support the Subsidiary Banks. The FRB, which examines the Company and our non-bank subsidiaries, has a policy stating that a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the source of strength doctrine, the FRB may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank, and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. Capital injections may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it, and, therefore, may be required to borrow the funds. Loans from a holding company to its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. SAVB 2009 Form 10-K - 20 - In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, the bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and may adversely impact the holding company’s results of operations and cash flows. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine transactions, including, for example, funding transactions, could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions with which we do business, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems in the past and could do so in the future and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be sold at prices that are sufficient for us to recover the full amount of our exposure. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A promissory note contains financial covenants and a guarantee of the Company. As previously mentioned, the Company has a related party promissory note (“Note”) in the current amount of $16.0 million. The Note is secured by the unconditional guarantee of the Company and SAVB Holdings’ blanket assignment or pledge of all of its assets and the proceeds thereof to the Note’s holder. The Note contains the following financial covenants: (i) during the term of the Note, the dividends paid out by the Company, on a quarterly basis, shall not exceed 50 percent of the Company’s after tax net income for the proceeding quarter; (ii) Savannah and Bryan shall each maintain a “well-capitalized” status as determined by the OCC and GDBF, respectively; (iii) on the last day of each calendar quarter during the term of the Note, SAVB Holdings shall maintain a loan-to-value ratio of at least 1.00:1.00; and (iv) on the last day of each calendar quarter during the term of the Note, the amount of non-performing assets of the Company shall not exceed 4.75 percent of the total assets of the Company. At December 31, 2009, the Company met all covenants contained in the Note. Common Stock Marketability Risk Our authorized preferred stock exposes holders of our common stock to certain risks. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share. The authorized but unissued preferred stock constitutes what is commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock. This type of preferred stock may be issued by us, at the direction of our Board, from time to time on any number of occasions, without shareholder approval, as one or more separate series of shares comprised of any number of the authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock, designated by resolution of the Board stating (i) the dividend rate or the amount of dividends to be paid thereon, whether dividends shall be cumulative and, if so, from which date(s), the payment date(s) for dividends, and the participating or other special rights, if any, with respect to dividends; (ii) the voting powers, full or limited, if any, of shares of such series; (iii) whether the shares of such series shall be redeemable and, if so, the price(s) at which, and the terms and conditions on which, such shares may be redeemed; (iv) the amount(s) payable upon the shares of such series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company; (v) whether the shares of such series shall be entitled to the benefit of a sinking or retirement fund to be applied to the purchase or redemption of such shares, and if so entitled, the amount of such fund and the manner of its application, including the price or prices at which such shares may be redeemed or purchased through the application of such funds; (vi) whether the shares of such series shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes of stock of the Company, and, if so, the conversion price(s), or the rate(s) of exchange, and the adjustments thereof, if any, at which such conversion or exchange may be made, and any other terms and conditions of such conversion and exchange; (vii) the price or other consideration for which the shares of such series shall be issued; (viii) whether the shares of such series which are redeemed or converted shall have the status of authorized but unissued shares of serial preferred stock and whether such shares may be reissued as shares of the same or any other series of serial preferred stock; SAVB 2009 Form 10-K - 21 - and (ix) whether the shares of such series shall be entitled to other rights, preferences and privileges. Such preferred stock may provide our Board the ability to hinder or discourage any attempt to gain control of us by a merger, tender offer at a control premium price, proxy contest or otherwise. Consequently, the preferred stock could entrench our management. The market price of our common stock could be depressed to some extent by the existence of the preferred stock. Moreover, any preferred stock that is issued will rank ahead of our common stock, in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation preferences and may have greater voting rights than our Company’s common stock. No shares of preferred stock have been issued as of December 31, 2009. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers, collectively, beneficially owned approximately 22 percent of our outstanding common stock. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers, as a group, have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, even if their interests conflict with those of other shareholders, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The OCC, FDIC, GDBF or other entities may impose dividend payment and other restrictions on the Subsidiary Banks which would impact our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. The OCC, FDIC and the GDF are the primary regulatory agencies that examine the Subsidiary Banks. Under certain circumstances, including any determination that the activities of a bank or their subsidiaries constitute unsafe and unsound banking practices, the regulators have the authority by statute to restrict the Subsidiary Banks’ ability to transfer assets, make shareholder distributions, and redeem preferred securities or pay dividends to the parent company. In addition, as noted previously, one of our loan agreements contains a covenant that restricts quarterly dividends to 50 percent of quarterly net income. Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may deter potential acquirers and may depress our stock price. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws divide our Board into three classes, as nearly equal as possible, with staggered three-year terms. Business combinations, such as sales or mergers involving us, require the approval of a majority of shareholders as well as the recommendation for such business combination by at least two-thirds of the continuing directors, or in the alternative, unanimously recommended by the continuing directors, provided that the continuing directors constitute at least three members of the Board at the time of such approval. Shareholders may remove directors with or without cause upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding voting shares of the Company and the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding voting shares of the Company other than those of which an interested shareholder is the beneficial owner. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company. In addition, the above provisions may be altered only pursuant to specified shareholder action. With several specific exceptions, our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws are silent with respect to the amendment of our Articles of Incorporation, and thus, the Georgia Business Corporations Code ("GBCC") dictates the requirements for making such an amendment. The GBCC generally provides that, other than in the case of certain routine amendments (such as changing the corporate name) and other amendments which the GBCC specifically allows without shareholder action, the corporation's board of directors must recommend any amendment of the Articles of Incorporation to the shareholders (unless the board elects to make no such recommendation because of a conflict of interest or other special circumstances and the board communicates the reasons for its election to the shareholders) and the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the amendment by each voting group entitled to vote on the amendment (unless the GBCC, the articles of incorporation, or the board of directors require a greater percentage of votes) is required to amend our Articles of Incorporation. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that the provisions regarding the approval required for certain business combinations may only be changed by the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the outstanding voting shares of the Company and the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding shares of the Company other than those of which an interested shareholder is the beneficial owner. SAVB 2009 Form 10-K - 22 - Our Articles of Incorporation also provide that the provisions regarding the applicability of Article 11, Parts 2 and 3 of the GBCC (regarding mergers and share exchanges) to the Company may only be repealed by both the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the continuing directors and a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by voting shares of the Company, in addition to any other vote required by our Articles of Incorporation. Our Bylaws generally provide that the Bylaws may be altered or amended by our shareholders at any annual meeting or special meeting of the shareholders or by our Board at any regular or special meeting of the Company's Board. The existence of the above provisions could result in our being less attractive to a potential acquirer, or result in our shareholders receiving less for their shares of common voting stock than otherwise might be available if there were a takeover attempt. We have certain obligations and the general ability to issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, and such future issuances may depress the price of our common stock. We have various obligations to issue additional shares of common stock in the future. These obligations include non-qualified and incentive stock options as detailed in Note 13 on page F-20 and page F-21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2009 Annual Report. The options permit the holders to purchase shares of our common stock at specified prices. These purchase prices may be less than the then current market price of our common stock. Any shares of our common stock issued pursuant to these options would dilute the percentage ownership of existing shareholders. The terms on which we could obtain additional capital during the life of these options may be adversely affected because of such potential dilution. Finally, we may issue additional shares in the future. There are no preemptive rights in connection with our common stock. Thus, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders may be diluted if we issue additional shares in the future. For issuances of shares and grants of options, our Board will determine the timing and size of the issuances and grants and the consideration or services required thereof. Our Board intends to use its reasonable business judgment to fulfill its fiduciary obligations to our then existing shareholders in connection with any such issuance or grant. Nonetheless, future issuances of additional shares could cause immediate and substantial dilution to the net tangible book value of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding immediately before such transaction. Any future decrease in the net tangible book value of such issued and outstanding shares could materially and adversely affect the market value of the shares. Sales of large quantities of our common stock could reduce the market price of our common stock. Any sales of large quantities of shares of our common stock, or the perception that any such sales are likely to occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. In 2005, we issued 397,273 restricted shares to investors in a private placement of our shares which were registered with the SEC on October 21, 2005. When the registration statement covering the resale of those restricted shares became effective, the holders of those shares are able to offer to sell those shares from time to time at the current market price or at negotiated prices. In 2007, we issued 71,000 shares related to the acquisition of Minis. If holders sell large quantities of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may decrease and the public market for our common stock may otherwise be adversely affected because of the additional shares available in the market. Our common stock has experienced only limited trading. Our common stock is quoted and traded on the NASDAQ Global Market in the United States under the symbol "SAVB". The trading volume in our common stock has been relatively low when compared with larger companies quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market or listed on the other stock exchanges. We cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for you to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which you could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the market price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. SAVB 2009 Form 10-K - 23 - As of December 31, 2009, there were 5,933,789 shares of common stock outstanding. The price of our common stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including the following: Ø The depth and liquidity of the markets for our common stock; Ø Investor perception of us and the industry in which we participate; Ø General economic and market conditions; Ø Responses to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; Ø Earnings relative to securities analysts' estimates; Ø Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; Ø Conditions, trends or announcements in the banking industry; Ø Announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; Ø Additions or departures of key personnel; Ø Accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting rules that affect our financial statements; and, Ø Other factors and events beyond our control. The market price of our common stock could experience significant fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance. As a result, an investor (due to personal circumstances) may be required to sell their shares of our common stock at a time when our stock price is depressed due to random fluctuations, possibly based on factors beyond our control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 