Risk Factors ─ Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect our members’ personal and financial information could result in liability and harm our reputation. In addition, under federal (Federal Trade Commission Act) and state franchise and business opportunity laws, franchisees are entitled to certain protections including mandatory disclosures and the provision that many of the substantive aspects of the business relationship (i.e., termination, transfer, cancellation, and non-renewal) will be governed by state law. An adverse finding in one or more of these business relationship aspects could govern the enforceability of our agreements or permit the recovery of damages and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. With respect to our online technologies, there are currently relatively few laws or regulations directly applicable to access to, or commerce on, the internet other than those relating to data security. However, it is possible that a number of additional laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the internet, covering issues such as taxes, user privacy, information security, pricing and characteristics and quality of products and services. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that future internet-related regulation or regulatory changes might have on our business. Proprietary Rights We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, software security measures, franchise and license agreements and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary technology and software products. We have registered service marks for the word mark ITEX®, as well as “ITEX” used in connection with our logo design. We may file additional service mark word and design applications for ITEX. We seek to police the use of our marks and to oppose any infringement. We have registered the internet domain name “ITEX.com” and other related domain names. We cannot be certain that others will not develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology or be certain that equivalent products or services will not be marketed in competition with our products thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements between us and our employees or any license agreements with our brokers will provide meaningful protection of our proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of such proprietary information. 8 Employees As of July 31, 2012, we had 22 full-time, part-time, contract or temporary employees – 21 in our corporate headquarters and one in a corporate-owned trade office. From time to time, we utilize independent consultants or contractors for technology support, marketing, sales and support, and accounting or administrative functions. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe relations with our employees are good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are forward-looking such as estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives and expected operating results. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements that express expectations and projections with respect to future matters may be affected by changes in our strategic direction, as well as developments beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our expectations will necessarily come to pass. Actual results could differ materially because of issues and uncertainties such as those listed below, in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, Part II Item 7 and elsewhere in this report. These factors, among others, may adversely impact and impair our business and should be considered in evaluating our financial outlook. Our revenue growth and success is tied to the operations of our independent Broker Network, and as a result the loss of our brokers or the financial performance of our brokers can negatively impact our business We service our member businesses primarily through our independent licensed broker and franchise network (individually, “broker”, together, the “Broker Network”) as well as through any corporate-owned offices we may operate from time to time. Our financial success primarily depends on our brokers and the manner in which they operate and develop their offices. We depend on the ability of our brokers to enroll new members, train them in the use of the Marketplace, grow our transactional volume by facilitating business among members, manage member relationships, provide members with information about ITEX products and services, and assure the payment of our fees. Brokers are independently owned and operated and have a contractual relationship with ITEX, typically for a renewable five-year term. Our inability to renew a significant portion of these agreements on terms satisfactory to our brokers and us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our brokers may not be successful in increasing the level of revenues generated compared to prior years, or even sustaining their own business activities, which depends on many factors, including industry trends, the strength of the local economy, the success of their marketing activities, control of expense levels, the employment and management of personnel, and being able to secure adequate financing to operate their businesses. There can be no assurance that our brokers will be successful in adding members or increasing the volume of transactions through the Marketplace, or that if they do not renew their agreements or terminate operations we will be able to attract new brokers at rates sufficient to maintain a stable or growing revenue base. If our brokers are unsuccessful in generating revenue, enrolling new members to equalize the attrition of members leaving the Marketplace, or if a significant number of brokers become financially distressed and terminate operations, our revenues could be reduced and our business operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 9 Future revenue growth remains uncertain and our operating results and profitability may decline For the year ended July 31, 2012, our revenue decreased 4% compared to the same period in 2011. Although we seek to increase revenues through organic growth and the development of new revenue streams, we cannot assure you that our revenues will increase in future quarters or future years. We may be unable to add revenue through acquisitions, either because of the absence of acquisition candidates, lack of financing, or unacceptable terms. We have approximately 30% recurring revenues. We do not have an order backlog, and approximately two-thirds of our net revenues each quarter come from transaction fees based on the GMV (gross merchandise value) of transactions occurring during that quarter. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of investors. We cannot assure you that we can continue to be operated profitably, which depends on many factors, including the success of our development and expansion efforts, the control of expense levels and the success of our business activities. We have been subject to increased expense levels as a result of responding to proxy contests, litigation and other actions by dissident stockholders. We may make investments in marketing, broker and member support, technology and further development of our operating infrastructure which entail long-term commitments. We may be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our profitability. The barter industry as a whole may be adversely affected by industry trends and economic factors. Despite our efforts to expand our revenues, we may not be successful. We experience a certain amount of attrition from members leaving the Marketplace. If new member enrollments do not continue or are insufficient to offset attrition, we will increasingly need to focus on keeping existing members active and increasing their activity level in order to maintain or grow our business. We cannot assure you that this strategy would be successful to offset declining revenues or profits. Our brokers could take actions that could harm our business, our reputation and adversely affect the ITEX Marketplace Our agreements with our brokers require that they understand and comply with all laws and regulations applicable to their businesses, and operate in compliance with our Marketplace Rules. Brokers are independently owned and operated and are not our employees, partners, or affiliates. We set forth operational standards and guidelines; however, we have limited control over how our broker businesses are run. Our brokers have individual business strategies and objectives, and may not operate their offices in a manner consistent with our philosophy and standards. We cannot assure that our brokers will avoid actions that adversely affect the reputation of ITEX or the Marketplace. Improper activity stemming from one broker can generate negative publicity which could adversely affect our entire Broker Network and the Marketplace. Our image and reputation and the image and reputation of other brokers may suffer materially, and system-wide sales could significantly decline if our brokers do not operate their businesses according to our standards. While we ultimately can take action to terminate brokers and franchisees that do not comply with the standards contained in our agreements, and even though we may implement compliance and monitoring functions, we may not be able to identify problems and take action quickly enough and, as a result, our image and reputation may suffer, causing our revenues or profitability to decline. Further, the success and growth of our Broker Network depends on our maintaining a satisfactory working relationship with our existing brokers and attracting new brokers to our network. Lawsuits and other disputes with our brokers could discourage our brokers from expanding their business or lead to negative publicity, which could discourage new brokers from entering our network or existing brokers from renewing their agreements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 We could be negatively affected as a result of a proxy fight and related litigation In July 2010, a dissident shareholder group declared its intention to change the management structure of ITEX. It nominated an opposition slate of individuals for election to replace our Board of Directors at the annual meeting of stockholders held in December 2010. Although unsuccessful in 2010, the founding member of the 2010 group again nominated an opposition slate of individuals to replace a majority of our directors at the annual meeting held in May 2012. In addition, the dissident shareholder filed a derivative lawsuit against the Board of Directors, and also the Company as a nominal defendant, and is also seeking to overturn certain Board actions as well as to set aside the vote of certain shareholders who voted at the 2012 annual meeting See Note 11 ― “Legal Proceedings and Litigation Contingencies” included in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”. The extended proxy fight and related litigation has negatively affected the Company and could cause additional harm because: ·Responding to proxy contests, litigation and other actions by dissident shareholders is costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees; ·Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction diverts the attention of, damages morale and creates instability among members of our Broker Network as well as our management and employees, and adversely impacts our existing and potential strategic and operational relationships and opportunities; ·We may experience difficulties in hiring, retaining and motivating personnel during the resulting uncertain and turbulent times; ·If individuals are elected or appointed to our Board of Directors with a specific dissident agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our current business plan which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition; ·If certain corporate governance proposals are implemented that are not scaled to the size of our company or do not provide a benefit commensurate with their cost, our profitability as well as the value creation capabilities of our organization may be adversely affected; ·Increases in legal fees, insurance, administrative and associated costs incurred in connection with responding to proxy contests and related litigation are substantial; ·Proxy contests, or the threat of one, could cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation; ·A successful election outcome by a dissident shareholder in replacing a majority of our directors would result in a change in control of the Company, which would trigger employee change in control agreements and immediate vesting of restricted stock awards, resulting in substantial compensation charges and other expenses. See Note 11 ― “Legal Proceedings and Litigation Contingencies” included in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”. A change in control could allow a dissident shareholder to reimburse his proxy expenses, resulting in substantial charges. The effect of a change in control by a dissident shareholder would have a material adverse effect upon the Company's operations, financial condition, and financial statements taken as a whole; ·A successful election outcome by a dissident shareholder who is also engaged in litigation against ITEX could also potentially adversely affect the Company by resulting in an “insured v. insured exclusion” under our D&O insurance policy, which excludes indemnification for claims against directors and officers alleged by other directors and officers or policyholders under the same policy. There is a risk that our insurer would decline to cover claims, or that defense costs advanced by the Company during the pendency of the claim would later be determined to be not covered under the policy and would not be repaid or recovered. We cannot assure you that an adverse determination would not be made by our insurer which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; and 11 ·The uncertainty created by the delay in certifying the election results of our last annual meeting could further negatively impact the stability and morale of our broker network as well as our management and employees. Overcoming the disruption, uncertainty, diversion of focus, and damaged morale within the organization and the Broker Network may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and require motivational support in the form of various incentives. We may be held responsible by members, third parties, regulators or courts for the actions of, or failures to act by, our brokers or their employees, which exposes us to possible adverse judgments, other liabilities and negative publicity From time to time we are subject to claims for the conduct of our brokers in situations where a broker has caused injury to a member as a result of a transaction in the Marketplace. Third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us responsible for the actions or failures to act by our brokers or their employees. Failure to comply with laws and regulations by our brokers, or litigation involving potential liability for broker activities could be costly and time consuming for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments, expose us to possible fines and negative publicity, or otherwise harm our business. Failure to deal effectively with member disputes could result in costly litigation, damage our reputation and harm our business ITEX faces risks with respect to transactional disputes between members of the Marketplace. From time to time we receive complaints from members who may not have received the products or services that they had purchased, concerning the quality of the products or services, or who believe they have been defrauded by other members or ITEX brokers. We also receive complaints from sellers because a buyer has changed his or her mind and decided not to honor the contract to purchase the item. While ITEX does, in some cases, as part of its transaction dispute resolution process reverse transactions, reduce or eliminate credit lines, suspend accounts, or take other measures with members who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other members, the determination as to whether a transaction is reversed or how to resolve a specific dispute is made by ITEX in its sole discretion. Measures we may take to resolve transactional disputes or combat risks of fraud have the potential to damage relations with our members or brokers or decrease transactional activity in the Marketplace by restricting the activities of certain members. Furthermore, negative publicity and member sentiment generated as a result of member complaints or fraudulent or deceptive conduct by members of our Marketplace could damage our reputation, or reduce our ability to attract new members or retain our current members. We occasionally receive communications from members requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. In addition, because we service our member businesses through our Broker Network, we are subject to claims and could potentially be found liable for the conduct of our brokers in a situation where that broker has caused injury to a member. Litigation involving disputes between members and liability for broker actions could be costly and time consuming for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected members may complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. 12 Use of our services for illegal purposes could damage our reputation and harm our business Our members, typically small businesses, actively market products and services through the Marketplace and our website. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for the activities of users or members of their service is often the subject of litigation. We may be unable to prevent our members from selling unlawful or stolen goods or unlawful services, or selling goods or services in an unlawful manner, and we could be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. It is possible that third parties, including government regulators and law enforcement officials, could allege that our services aid and abet certain violations of certain laws, for example, laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, and the sale of items outside of the U.S. that are regulated by U.S. export controls. Although we have prohibited the listing of illegal goods and services and implemented other protective measures, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, any of which could harm our business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual sale of unlawful goods or services could harm our business. In addition, negative media publicity relating to the listing or sale of unlawful goods and stolen goods using our services could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand, and make members reluctant to use our services. ITEX’s trade dollar currency, ITEX dollars, is also susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities. Despite measures taken by ITEX as administrator and as a third-party record-keeper to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, illegal activities could still be funded using ITEX dollars. Any resulting claims or liabilities could harm our business. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theft We host confidential information as part of our client relationship management and transactional processing platform. Our security measures may not detect or prevent security breaches that could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our members authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for fees charged by us. We take a number of measures to ensure the security of our hardware and software systems and member and client information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Other large Internet companies have been the subject of sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a members’ password could access the members’ transaction data. An increasing number of websites have reported breaches of their security. Any compromise of our security could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business, and could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws. In addition, a party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Under credit card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of credit card information that we store, we could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow credit card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to pay their fees. If we were unable to accept credit cards, our business would be seriously damaged. 13 We continue to enhance our systems for data management and protection, and intrusion detection and prevention. However, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Security breaches, including any breach by us or by parties with which we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of our members’ personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry coverage limits which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Unplanned system interruptions or system failures could harm our business and reputation Any interruption in the availability of our transactional processing services due to hardware and operating system failures will reduce our revenues and profits. Our revenue depends on members using our processing services. Any unscheduled interruption in our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential members to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our websites or services, and could permanently harm our reputation. Furthermore, any system failures could result in damage to our members’ and brokers’ businesses. These persons could seek compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time-consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events or disruptions. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect our members’ and brokers’ personal and financial information could result in liability and harm our reputation We store personal and financial information for members of the Marketplace and our brokers. Privacy concerns relating to the disclosure and safeguarding of personal and financial information have drawn increased attention from federal and state governments. Federal and state law requires us to safeguard our members’ and brokers’ financial information, including credit card information. Although we have established security procedures to protect against identity theft and the theft of this personal and financial information, breaches of our privacy may occur. To the extent the measures we have implemented are breached or if there is an inappropriate disclosure of confidential or personal information or data, we may become subject to litigation or administrative sanctions, which could result in significant fines, penalties or damages and harm to our brand and reputation. Even if we were not held liable, a security breach or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or personal information or data could harm our reputation. In addition, we may be required to invest additional resources to protect us against damages caused by these actual or perceived disruptions or security breaches in the future. Changes in these federal and state regulatory requirements could result in more stringent requirements and could result in a need to change our business practices. Establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these new requirements may increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes From time to time we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. See Note 11 ― “Legal Proceedings and Litigation Contingencies” included in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”. Adverse outcomes in one or more of these claims may result in significant monetary damages that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Although management currently believes resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial statements, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. A material adverse impact on our financial statements also could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. If we lose the services of our chief executive officer, our business could suffer We believe our performance depends substantially on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, Steven White. Mr. White also currently fills the executive positions of Interim Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. Our board places heavy reliance on Mr. White’s experience and management skills. We have not entered into a formal employment agreement with Mr. White, other than an agreement to receive a payment in connection with a “change of control,” as defined in the agreement. Mr. White has been awarded restricted stock grants as a long-term retention incentive. If we were to lose the services of Mr. White, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring a qualified successor or successors, and could experience a loss in performance while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Corporate staff and our franchisees and brokers could lose confidence in the direction and stability of the Company and choose to pursue other opportunities. In addition, in connection with a management transition we may need to attract, train, retain and motivate additional financial, technical, managerial, marketing or support personnel. We face the risk that if we are unable to attract and integrate new personnel, or retain and motivate existing personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Alliances, mergers and acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences We have acquired eight trade exchange membership lists since 2005 and integrated them into the Marketplace. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider other potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets and strategic investments. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: • Diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to challenges related to integration and administration; • Challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the acquiring organization. These may include declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business; 15 • The need to integrate each company’s accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • The need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that prior to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; • The need to transition operations, members, and customers onto our existing platforms; and • Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. The expected benefit of any of these strategic relationships may not materialize and the cost of these efforts may negatively impact our financial results. Future alliances, mergers or acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the expenditure of our cash or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We may need additional financing; current funds may be insufficient to finance our plans for growth or our operations Although we believe that our financial condition is stable and that our cash balances and operating cash flows provide adequate resources to fund our ongoing operating requirements, we have limited funds. Our existing working capital may not be sufficient to allow us to execute our business plan as fast as we would like or may not be sufficient to take full advantage of all available strategic opportunities. We believe our current core operations reflect a scalable business strategy, which will allow our business model to be executed with limited outside financing. However, we also may expand our operations, enter into a strategic transaction, or acquire competitors or other business to business enterprises. We have a line of credit with our primary banking institution, which will provide additional reserve capacity for general corporate and working capital purposes, and if necessary, enable us to make certain expenditures related to the growth and expansion of our business model. However, if adequate capital were not available or were not available on acceptable terms at a time when we needed it, our ability to execute our business plans, develop or enhance our services, make acquisitions or respond to competitive pressures would be significantly impaired. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to implement various financing alternatives or otherwise obtain required working capital if needed or desired. We are dependent on the value of foreign currency. We transact business in Canadian dollars as well as USD. Revenues denominated in Canadian dollars comprised 7.2% and 7.8% in the years ended July 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. While foreign currency exchange fluctuations are not believed to materially adversely affect our operations at this time, changes in the relation of the Canadian dollar to the USD could continue to affect our revenues, cost of sales, operating margins and result in exchange losses. 16 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to detect fraud or report our financial results accurately, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to detect and prevent fraud. We periodically assess our system of internal controls to review their effectiveness and identify potential areas of improvement. These assessments may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to our system of internal controls are necessary. Performing assessments of internal controls, implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective internal controls process is expensive and requires considerable management attention. Internal control systems are designed in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. We face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures may prove to be inadequate or that our controls and procedures may be circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. It is possible that any lapses in the effective operations of controls and procedures could materially affect earnings, that we could suffer losses, that we could be subject to costly litigation, that investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our reputation, and that our operating results could be harmed, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we must certify the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting annually. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective for a particular year we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. That could adversely affect our competitive position in our business, and the market price for our common stock. Our Brokers may default on their loans From time to time we finance the operational and expansion activities of our brokers. We loan brokers funds for general operational purposes, to acquire the management rights to select member accounts, and for other reasons. These loans are repaid from regular deductions from broker commissions. We have increased the amount of our loans to brokers from $909 at July 31, 2011 to $1,619 at July 31, 2012. In the event one or more brokers default on their loans, it may adversely affect our financial condition. 