Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks and uncertainties relating to our business and the ownership of our securities. You should carefully consider each of these risks and uncertainties and all of the information in this Form 10-K and its Exhibits, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2008, which are included in a separate section at the end of this report beginning on page F-1. We may suffer adverse consequences as a result of recent and future economic events. Since the latter part of 2007, the United States and world economies have been in the midst of a significant recession, with most key economic indicators on the decline, including gross domestic product, consumer sales, housing starts and employment. This slowdown has had devastating effects on the capital markets, with declining stock prices and tightening credit availability. The commercial real estate industry was affected by these events in 2007 and 2008 and will likely be affected for a significant period of time. These events could adversely affect us in numerous ways discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The real estate industry in general has encountered increased difficulty in obtaining capital to fund growth activities, such as acquisitions and development costs, debt repayments and other capital requirements. As a result, the level of risk that we may not be able to obtain new financing for acquisitions, development activities, refinancing of existing debt or other capital requirements at reasonable terms, if at all, has increased. We believe that there may be an increased likelihood in the current economic climate of tenants encountering financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or general downturn of business, and as a result there is an increased likelihood of such tenants defaulting in their lease obligations to us. We also expect that our leasing activities will be adversely affected, with an increasing likelihood of our being unsuccessful in renewing tenants, renewing tenants on terms less favorable to us or being unable to lease newly constructed space. As a result, the conditions brought about by these economic events could collectively have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. We are dependent on external sources of capital for future growth. Because we are a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income to our shareholders. Due to this requirement, we will not be able to significantly fund our acquisition, construction and development activities using cash flow from operations. Therefore, our ability to fund these activities is dependent on our ability to access capital funded by third parties. Such capital could be in the form of new debt, equity issuances of common shares, preferred shares, common and preferred units in our Operating Partnership or joint venture funding. These capital sources may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Since the United States financial markets are experiencing extreme volatility, and credit markets have tightened considerably, the level of risk that we may not be able to obtain new financing for acquisitions, development activities or other capital requirements at reasonable terms, if at all, in the near future has increased. Moreover, additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage and subject us to covenants that restrict management’s flexibility in directing our operations, and additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our shareholders’ interests. Our inability to obtain capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and fund other cash requirements. We use our Revolving Credit Facility to initially finance much of our investing and financing activities. We also use our Revolving Construction Facility and other credit facilities to fund a significant portion of our construction activities. Our lenders under these and other facilities could, for financial hardship or other reasons, fail to honor their commitments 8 Table of Contents to fund our requests for borrowings under these facilities. In the event that one or more lenders under these facilities are not able or willing to fund a borrowing request, it would adversely affect our ability to access borrowing capacity under these facilities, which would in turn adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. We may suffer adverse consequences as a result of our reliance on rental revenues for our income. We earn revenue from renting our properties. Our operating costs do not necessarily fluctuate in relation to changes in our rental revenue. This means that our costs will not necessarily decline and may increase even if our revenues decline. For new tenants or upon lease expiration for existing tenants, we generally must make improvements and pay other leasing costs for which we may not receive increased rents. We also make building-related capital improvements for which tenants may not reimburse us. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meeting our operating expenses and capital costs, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover these costs. In such circumstances, we would likely have lower profits or possibly incur losses. We may also find in such circumstances that we are unable to borrow to cover such costs, in which case our operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, there may be less or no cash available for distributions to our shareholders. In addition, the competitive environment for leasing is affected considerably by a number of factors including, among other things, changes due to economic factors and supply and demand of space. These factors may make it difficult for us to lease existing vacant space and space associated with future lease expirations at rental rates that are sufficient to meeting our short-term capital needs. Adverse developments concerning some of our major tenants and sector concentrations could have a negative impact on our revenue. As of December 31, 2008, our 20 largest tenants accounted for 55.0% of the total annualized rental revenue of our wholly owned properties, and our five largest of these tenants accounted for 35.5% of that total. We computed the annualized rental revenue by multiplying by 12 the sum of monthly contractual base rents and estimated monthly expense reimbursements under active leases in our portfolio of wholly owned properties as of December 31, 2008. Information regarding our five largest tenants is set forth below: Tenant Annualized Rental Revenue at December 31, 2008 Percentage of Total Annualized Rental Revenue of Wholly Owned Properties Number of Leases (in thousands) United States of America $ 66,782 17.3 % 67 Northrop Grumman Corporation (1) 28,375 7.4 % 16 Booz Allen Hamilton, Inc. 19,985 5.2 % 8 Computer Sciences Corporation (1) 11,875 3.1 % 4 L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. (1) 9,730 2.5 % 5 (1) Includes affiliated organizations and agencies and predecessor companies. Most of our leases with the United States Government provide for a series of one-year terms or provide for early termination rights. The government may terminate its leases if, among other reasons, the United States Congress fails to provide funding. If any of our five largest tenants fail to make rental payments to us or if the United States Government elects to terminate several of its leases and the space cannot be re-leased on satisfactory terms, there would be an adverse effect on our financial performance and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, the United States Government, defense information technology and data sectors accounted for 54.8% of the total annualized rental revenue of our wholly owned properties. We expect to increase our reliance on these sectors for revenue. A reduction in government spending targeting these sectors could affect the ability of these tenants to fulfill lease obligations or decrease the likelihood that these tenants will renew their leases. Such occurrences could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We classified the revenue from our leases into this sector grouping based solely on management’s knowledge of the tenants’ operations in leased space. Occasionally, classifications require subjective and 9 Table of Contents complex judgments. We do not use independent sources such as Standard Industrial Classification codes for classifying our revenue into sector groupings and if we did, the resulting groupings would be materially different. We rely on the ability of our tenants to pay rent and would be harmed by their inability to do so. Our performance depends on the ability of our tenants to fulfill their lease obligations by paying their rental payments in a timely manner. Under the current economic climate, we believe that there may be an increased likelihood of tenants encountering financial hardships. If one or more of our major tenants, or a number of our smaller tenants, were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or general downturn of business, there could be an adverse effect on financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. Most of our properties are geographically concentrated in the Mid-Atlantic region, particularly in the Greater Washington, D.C. region and neighboring Suburban Baltimore, or in particular office parks. We may suffer economic harm in the event of a decline in the real estate market or general economic conditions in those regions. Most of our properties are located in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States and, as of December 31, 2008, our properties located in the Greater Washington, D.C. region and neighboring Suburban Baltimore accounted for a combined 86.0% of our total annualized rental revenue from wholly owned properties. Our properties are also typically concentrated in office parks in which we own most of the properties. Consequently, we do not have a broad geographic distribution of our properties. As a result, a decline in the real estate market or general economic conditions in the Mid-Atlantic region, the Greater Washington, D.C. region or the office parks in which our properties are located could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. We would suffer economic harm if we were unable to renew our leases on favorable terms. When leases expire, our tenants may not renew or may renew on terms less favorable to us than the terms of their original leases. If a tenant vacates a property, we can expect to experience a vacancy for some period of time, as well as incur higher leasing costs, than if a tenant renews. As a result, our financial performance and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected if we experience a high volume of tenant departures at the end of their lease terms. We expect that the effects of the global downturn on our real estate operations will make our leasing activities increasingly challenging in 2009, 2010 and perhaps beyond and, as a result, there could be an increasing likelihood of our being unsuccessful in renewing tenants or renewing on terms less favorable to us than the terms of the original leases. Set forth below are the percentages of total annualized rental revenue from wholly owned properties as of December 31, 2008 that are subject to scheduled lease expirations in each of the next five years: 2009 13.6 % 2010 13.9 % 2011 9.7 % 2012 14.2 % 2013 12.3 % As noted above, most of the leases with our largest tenant, the United States Government, provide for consecutive one-year terms or provide for early termination rights. All of the leasing statistics set forth above assume that the United States Government will remain in the space that it leases through the end of the respective arrangements, without ending consecutive one-year leases prematurely or exercising early termination rights. We may encounter a decline in the values of our real estate assets. The value of our real estate could be adversely affected by general economic and market conditions connected to a specific property, a market or submarket or a broader economic region. Examples of such conditions include a broader economic recession, as we are experiencing today, declining demand for space and decreases in market rental rates and/or market values of real estate assets. If our real estate assets decline in value, it could result in our recognition of impairment losses, which would adversely affect our operations. Moreover, a decline in the value of our real estate could adversely affect the amount of borrowings available to us under credit facilities, which could, in turn, adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. We may not be able to compete successfully with other entities that operate in our industry. The commercial real estate market is highly competitive. We compete for the purchase of commercial property with many entities, including other publicly traded commercial REITs. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial 10 Table of Contents resources than we do. If our competitors prevent us from buying properties that we target for acquisition, we may not be able to meet our property acquisition and development goals. Moreover, numerous commercial properties compete for tenants with our properties. Some of the properties competing with ours may be newer or in more desirable locations, or the competing properties’ owners may be willing to accept lower rates than are acceptable to us. Competition for property acquisitions, or for tenants in properties that we own, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance and distributions to our shareholders. We may be unable to successfully execute our plans to acquire existing commercial real estate properties. We intend to acquire existing commercial real estate properties to the extent that suitable acquisitions can be made on advantageous terms. Acquisitions of commercial properties entail risks, such as the risks that we may not be in a position, or have the opportunity in the future, to make suitable property acquisitions on advantageous terms and/or that such acquisitions will fail to perform as expected. The failure of our acquisitions to perform as expected could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may suffer economic harm as a result of making unsuccessful acquisitions in new markets. We may pursue selective acquisitions of properties in regions where we have not previously owned properties. These acquisitions may entail risks in addition to those we face in other acquisitions where we are familiar with the regions, such as the risk that we do not correctly anticipate conditions or trends in a new region and are therefore not able to operate the acquired property profitably. If this occurs, it could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may be unable to execute our plans to develop and construct additional properties. Although the majority of our investments are in currently leased properties, we also develop, construct and renovate properties, including some that are not fully pre-leased. When we develop, construct and renovate properties, we assume the risk that actual costs will exceed our budgets, that we will experience delays and that projected leasing will not occur, any of which could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders; the risk of projected leasing not occurring has increased as a result of the current economic conditions. In addition, we generally do not obtain construction financing commitments until the development stage of a project is complete and construction is about to commence. We may find that we are unable to obtain financing needed to continue with the construction activities for such projects. Certain of our properties containing data centers contain space not suitable for lease other than as data centers, which could make it difficult to reposition them for alternative use. Certain of our properties contain data center space, which is highly specialized space containing extensive electrical and mechanical systems that are designed uniquely to run and maintain banks of computer servers. As a result, in the event we needed to reposition such data center space for another use, major renovations and expenditures could be required. We may suffer adverse effects as a result of the indebtedness that we carry and the terms and covenants that relate to this debt. Many of our properties are pledged by us to support repayment on indebtedness. In addition, we rely on borrowings to fund some or all of the costs of new property acquisitions, construction and development activities and other items. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Payments of principal and interest on our debt may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties or pay distributions to our shareholders required to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We are also subject to the risks that: · we may not be able to refinance our existing indebtedness, or may refinance on terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of our existing indebtedness; · in the event of our default under the terms of our Revolving Credit Facility by us, our Operating Partnership could be restricted from making cash distributions to us, which could result in reduced distributions to our shareholders or the need for us to incur additional debt to fund these distributions; and · if we are unable to pay our debt service on time or are unable to comply with restrictive financial covenants in certain of our debt, our lenders could foreclose on our properties securing such debt and, in some cases, other properties and assets that we own. Some of our debt is cross-defaulted, which means that failure to pay interest or principal on a loan above a threshold value will create a default on certain of our other loans. In addition, some of our debt which is cross-defaulted also contains cross-collateralization provisions. Any foreclosure of our properties could result in loss of 11 Table of Contents income and asset value that would negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. In addition, if we are in default and the value of the properties securing a loan is less than the loan balance, we may be required to pay the resulting shortfall to the lender using other assets. As of December 31, 2008, 26.0% of our debt had variable interest rates, including the effect of interest rate swaps. If short-term interest rates were to rise, our debt service payments on this debt would increase, which would lower our net income and could decrease our distributions to our shareholders. We use interest rate swap agreements from time to time to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. Decreases in interest rates would result in increased interest payments due under interest rate swap agreements in place and, in the event we decided to unwind such agreements, could result in our recognizing a loss and remitting a payment. We must refinance our debt in the future. As of December 31, 2008, our scheduled debt payments over the next five years, including maturities, were as follows: Year Amount (1) (in thousands) 2009 $ 103,982 2010 74,033 2011 746,081 (2) 2012 263,600 2013 137,718 (1) Represents principal maturities only and therefore excludes premiums and discounts. (2) Includes maturities totaling $473.8 million that may be extended for a one-year period, subject to certain conditions. Our operations likely will not generate enough cash flow to repay some or all of this debt without additional borrowings or new equity issuances. If we cannot refinance our debt, extend the repayment dates, or raise additional equity prior to the dates when our debt matures, we would default on our existing debt, which would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. We have certain distribution requirements that reduce cash available for other business purposes. As discussed above, as a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income (excluding capital gains), which limits the amount of cash we can retain for other business purposes, including amounts to fund acquisitions and development activity. Also, it is possible that because of the differences between the time we actually receive revenue or pay expenses and the period during which we report those items for distribution purposes, we may have to borrow funds to meet the 90% distribution requirement. We may also become subject to tax liabilities that adversely affect our operating cash flow and available cash for distribution to shareholders. We may be unable to continue to make shareholder distributions at expected levels. We intend to make regular quarterly cash distributions to our shareholders. However, distribution levels depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Some of our loan agreements contain provisions that could restrict future distributions. Our ability to sustain our current distribution level will also be dependent, in part, on other matters, including: · continued property occupancy and timely receipt of rent obligations; · the amount of future capital expenditures and expenses relating to our properties; · the level of leasing activity and future rental rates; · the strength of the commercial real estate market; · our ability to compete; · our costs of compliance with environmental and other laws; · our corporate overhead levels; · our amount of uninsured losses; and · our decision to reinvest in operations rather than distribute available cash. 12 Table of Contents In addition, we can make distributions to the holders of our common shares only after we make preferential distributions to holders of our preferred shares. We may incur additional indebtedness, which may harm our financial position and cash flow and potentially impact our ability to pay dividends on any series of preferred shares. Our governing documents do not limit us from incurring additional indebtedness and other liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.9 billion of consolidated indebtedness outstanding. We may incur additional indebtedness and become more highly leveraged, which could harm our financial position and potentially limit our cash available to pay dividends. As a result, we may not have sufficient funds remaining to satisfy our dividend obligations relating to any series of preferred shares if we incur additional indebtedness. Our ability to pay dividends may be limited, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends regularly. Because we conduct substantially all of our operations through our Operating Partnership, our ability to pay dividends will depend almost entirely on payments and dividends received on our interests in our Operating Partnership, the payment of which depends in turn on our ability to operate profitably and generate cash flow from our operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to pay dividends on a regular quarterly basis in the future. Additionally, the terms of some of the debt to which our Operating Partnership is a party limit its ability to make some types of payments and other dividends to us. This in turn limits our ability to make some types of payments, including payment of dividends on common or preferred shares, unless we meet certain financial tests or such payments or dividends are required to maintain our qualification as a REIT. As a result, if we are unable to meet the applicable financial tests, we may not be able to pay dividends on our shares in one or more periods. Furthermore, any new shares of beneficial interest issued will substantially increase the cash required to continue to pay cash dividends at current levels. Any common or preferred shares of beneficial interest that may in the future be issued to finance acquisitions, upon exercise of options or otherwise, would have a similar effect. Our ability to pay dividends on preferred shares is further limited by the requirements of Maryland law. Under applicable Maryland law, a Maryland REIT may not make a distribution if, after giving effect to the distribution, the REIT would not be able to pay its debts as the debts become due in the usual course of business, or the REIT’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed, if the REIT were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we may not make a distribution on any series of preferred shares if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business or our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of shares of any series of preferred shares then outstanding, if any, with preferences senior to those of any such series of preferred shares. Real estate investments are illiquid, and we may not be able to sell our properties on a timely basis when we determine it is appropriate to do so. Real estate investments can be difficult to sell and convert to cash quickly, especially if market conditions are not favorable, and we may find that to be increasingly the case under the current economic conditions due to a lack of credit availability for potential buyers. Such illiquidity could limit our ability to quickly change our portfolio of properties in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Moreover, under certain circumstances, the Internal Revenue Code imposes certain penalties on a REIT that sells property held for less than two years and limits the number of properties it can sell in a given year. In addition, for certain of our properties that we acquired by issuing units in our Operating Partnership, we are restricted by agreements with the sellers of the properties for a certain period of time from entering into transactions (such as the sale or refinancing of the acquired property) that will result in a taxable gain to the sellers without the seller’s consent. Due to these factors, we may be unable to sell a property at an advantageous time. We may suffer economic harm as a result of the actions of our joint venture partners. We invest in certain entities in which we are not the exclusive investor or principal decision maker. As of December 31, 2008, we owned 18 fully operational properties and four properties under construction or redevelopment, and control land for future development, through joint ventures. We also may continue to pursue new investments in real estate through joint ventures. Aside from our inability to unilaterally control the operations of joint ventures, our investments in joint ventures entail the additional risks that (1) the other parties to these investments may not fulfill their financial obligations as investors, in which case we may need to fund such parties’ share of additional capital requirements and (2) the other parties to these investments may take actions that are inconsistent with our objectives, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. 13 Table of Contents We may need to make additional cash outlays to protect our investment in loans we make that are subordinate to other loans. We have and may in the future make loans under which we have a secured interest in the ownership of a property that is subordinate to other loans on the property. If a default were to occur under the terms of any such loans with us or under the first mortgage loans related to the properties on such loans, we may be in a position where, in order to protect our investment, we would need to either (1) purchase the other loan or (2) foreclose on the ownership interest in the property and repay the first mortgage loan, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. We may be subject to possible environmental liabilities. We are subject to various Federal, state and local environmental laws. These laws can impose liability on property owners or operators for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on a property, even if the property owner was not responsible for the release of the hazardous substances. Costs resulting from environmental liability could be substantial. The presence of hazardous substances on our properties may also adversely affect occupancy and our ability to sell or borrow against those properties. In addition to the costs of government claims under environmental laws, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury or other reasons. Additionally, various laws impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at the disposal or treatment facility. Anyone who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at such a facility is potentially liable under such laws. These laws often impose liability on an entity even if the facility was not owned or operated by the entity. We may be subject to other possible liabilities that would adversely affect our financial position and cash flows. Our properties may be subject to other risks related to current or future laws, including laws benefiting disabled persons, and state or local laws relating to zoning, construction and other matters. These laws may require significant property modifications in the future for which we may not have budgeted and could result in the levy of fines against us. In addition, although we believe that we adequately insure our properties, we are subject to the risk that our insurance may not cover all of the costs to restore a property that is damaged by a fire or other catastrophic events, including acts of war or terrorism. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. We may be subject to increased costs of insurance and limitations on coverage regarding acts of terrorism. Our portfolio of properties is insured for losses under our property, casualty and umbrella insurance policies through September 30, 2009. These policies include coverage for acts of terrorism. Future changes in the insurance industry’s risk assessment approach and pricing structure may increase the cost of insuring our properties and decrease the scope of insurance coverage, either of which could adversely affect our financial position and operating results. Our ownership limits are important factors. Our Declaration of Trust limits ownership of our common shares by any single shareholder to 9.8% of the number of the outstanding common shares or 9.8% of the value of the outstanding common shares, whichever is more restrictive. Our Declaration of Trust also limits ownership by any single shareholder of our common and preferred shares in the aggregate to 9.8% of the aggregate value of the outstanding common and preferred shares. We call these restrictions the “Ownership Limit.” Our Declaration of Trust allows our Board of Trustees to exempt shareholders from the Ownership Limit. Our Declaration of Trust includes other provisions that may prevent or delay a change of control. Subject to the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, our Board of Trustees has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue additional securities on terms that could delay or prevent a change in control. In addition, our Board of Trustees has the authority to reclassify any of our unissued common shares into preferred shares. Our Board of Trustees may issue preferred shares with such preferences, rights, powers and restrictions as our Board of Trustees may determine, which could also delay or prevent a change in control. The Maryland business statutes also impose potential restrictions on a change of control of our company. Various Maryland laws may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us, even if the acquisition would be advantageous to shareholders. Resolutions adopted by our Board of Trustees and/or provisions of our bylaws exempt us from such laws, but our Board of Trustees can alter its resolutions or change our bylaws at any time to make these provisions applicable to us. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have adverse tax consequences. We believe that since 1992 we have qualified for taxation as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes. We plan to continue to meet the requirements for 14 Table of Contents taxation as a REIT. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from certain sources that are specified in the REIT tax laws. We are also required to distribute to shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains). The fact that we hold most of our assets through our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, Congress and the Internal Revenue Service might make changes to the tax laws and regulations and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult or impossible for us to remain qualified as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to Federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Also, unless the Internal Revenue Service granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year we first fail to qualify. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or for distributions to our shareholders. This would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. A number of factors could cause our security prices to decline. As is the case with any publicly-traded securities, certain factors outside of our control could influence the value of our common and preferred shares. These conditions include, but are not limited to: · market perception of REITs in general and office REITs in particular; · market perception of REITs relative to other investment opportunities; · the level of institutional investor interest in our Company; · general economic and business conditions; · prevailing interest rates; and · market perception of our financial condition, performance, dividends and growth potential. Generally, REITs are tax-advantaged relative to C corporations because they generally are not subject to corporate-level Federal income tax on income that they distribute to shareholders. However, Congress made changes to the tax laws and regulations that could make it less advantageous for investors to invest in REITs. The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, or the (“2003 Act”), provides that generally for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2002 and before December 31, 2008, certain dividends received by domestic individual shareholders from certain C corporations are subject to a reduced rate of tax of up to 15%. Prior to the 2003 Act, such dividends received by domestic individual shareholders were generally subject to tax at ordinary income rates, which were as high as 38.6%. In general, the provisions of the 2003 Act do not benefit individual shareholders of REITs and could make an investment in a C corporation that is not a REIT more attractive than an investment in a REIT. The average daily trading volume of our common shares during the year ended December 31, 2008 was approximately 733,000 shares, and the average trading volume of our publicly-traded preferred shares is generally insignificant. As a result, relatively small volumes of transactions could have a pronounced effect on the market price of such shares. We may experience significant losses and harm to our financial condition if any of financial institutions holding our cash and cash equivalents files for bankruptcy protection. We maintain our cash and cash equivalents with high quality financial institutions. Accounts at each institution are insured by the FDIC up to $250,000 under the recently increased limit that the U.S. Congress has temporarily granted until December 31, 2009. We have not experienced any losses to date on our deposited cash. However, we may incur significant losses and harm to our financial condition in the future if any of these financial institutions files for bankruptcy protection. Certain of our Trustees have potential conflicts of interest. Certain members of our Board of Trustees own partnership units in our Operating Partnership. These individuals may have personal interests that conflict with the interests of our shareholders. For example, if our Operating Partnership sells or refinances certain of the properties that these Trustees contributed to the Operating Partnership, the Trustees could suffer adverse tax consequences. Their personal interests could conflict with our interests if such a sale or refinancing would be advantageous to us. We have certain policies in place that are designed to minimize conflicts of interest. We cannot, however, assure you that these policies will be successful in eliminating the influence of such conflicts, and if they are not successful, decisions could be made that might fail to reflect fully the interests of all of our shareholders. 15 Table of Contents We are dependent on our key personnel, and the loss of any key personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. We are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. The loss of any of their services could have an adverse effect on our operations. Although certain of our officers have entered into employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that they will remain employed with us. We may change our policies without shareholder approval, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, market price of our common shares or ability to pay distributions. Our Board of Trustees determines all of our policies, including our investment, financing and distribution policies. Although our Board of Trustees has no current plans to do so, it may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our securities or distributions. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules, continue to create uncertainty for public companies. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice is evolving over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. In addition, it has become more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our Trustees, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified Trustees and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 16 Table of Contents 