ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are forward-looking such as estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives and expected operating results. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements that express expectations and projections with respect to future matters may be affected by changes in our strategic direction, as well as developments beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our expectations will necessarily come to pass. Actual results could differ materially because of issues and uncertainties such as those listed below, in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, Part II Item 7 and elsewhere in this report. These factors, among others, may adversely impact and impair our business and should be considered in evaluating our financial outlook. Our future revenue growth and profitability remains uncertain. During 2008, we increased revenues by 13% through organic growth and through acquisitions. We cannot assure you that our revenues will continue to increase in future quarters or future years. We may continue to add revenue through acquisitions, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our acquisition efforts or that financing for these endeavors will be available. We have sustained profitable operations for five years. However, our prospects for the future must be considered in light of the uncertainty of revenues and markets. We cannot assure you that we can continue to be operated profitably, which depends on many factors, including the success of our development and expansion efforts, the control of expense levels and the success of our business activities. Our future operating results will depend on a variety of factors, including those discussed in the other risk factors set forth below. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences; Our evaluation of new strategic directions may not result in viable new alliances, mergers or acquisitions, may not enhance shareholder value, and may create a distraction for our management and uncertainty that may adversely affect our operating results and business. We completed our acquisition of BXI in 2005, the Intagio assets on August 1, 2007 and ATX The Barter Company on March 1, 2008. Subsequent to year-end, we completed an acquisition of Intagio Media Services. Despite these acquisitions, three of which were with the same company, we have a limited amount of experience acquiring companies. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, other potential strategic transactions. In May 2008, we retained the investment bank Montgomery & Co, LLC as our financial advisor to assist us in evaluating a range of strategic alternatives and opportunities and update us regarding prevailing market conditions for mergers and acquisitions. Strategic alternatives may include, without limitation, continued execution of our operating plan, the sale of some or all of our continuing operations, partnering or other collaboration agreements, or a merger or other strategic transaction. Our exploration of strategic alternatives may not result in any additional agreements or transactions, or ensure that, if completed, any agreements or transactions will be successful, on attractive terms or enhance shareholder value. It is possible that nothing may result from our exploration or that we may acquire, be acquired or enter into some other strategic relationship, and that in consummating or further exploring such avenues, we may incur additional costs. Furthermore, we may enter into letters of intent and other non-definitive agreements that do not culminate in a completed transaction, engage in contract negotiations, or incur due diligence expenses which affect our quarterly earnings prior to or without entering into a material definitive agreement required to be disclosed publicly. We do not intend to disclose developments with respect to this process unless and until the evaluation of strategic alternatives has been completed or we have entered into a material definitive agreement. The mere negotiation or the consummation of any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is risky. The areas where we may face risks include: 9 · The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies. · Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to alliance, merger or acquisition integration challenges. · Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the acquiring organization. · Retaining employees from the businesses acquired. · The need to integrate each company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management. The expected benefit of any of these strategic relationships may not materialize and the cost of these efforts may negatively impact our financial results. Future alliances, mergers or acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We are largely dependent on key personnel who may not continue to work for us. Potentially, any loss of key officers, key management, and other personnel could impair our ability to successfully execute our business strategy, particularly when these individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to ITEX and our operations. Although we believe we are currently being administered capably, we remain substantially dependent on the continued services of our key personnel and in particular, the services of CEO and interim CFO Steven White. Management places heavy reliance on Mr. White’s experience and management skills. We have not entered into formal employment agreements with Mr. White or any of our employees. We carry a $2.0 million life insurance policy covering Mr. White to insure the business in the event of his death, but do not carry life insurance for any other key personnel. If Mr. White or other key personnel were to leave ITEX unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. We believe we have the necessary management expertise to implement our business strategy and that support personnel can be increased as needed. However, we may need to attract, train, retain and motivate additional financial, technical, managerial, marketing and support personnel. We face the risk that if we are unable to attract and integrate new personnel, or retain and motivate existing personnel, our business will be adversely affected. 10 We may need additional financing; current funds may be insufficient to finance our plans for growth or our operations Although we believe that our financial condition is stable and that our cash balances and operating cash flows provide adequate resources to fund our ongoing operating requirements, we have limited funds and may have contractual obligations in the future. Our existing working capital may not be sufficient to allow us to execute our business plan as fast as we would like or may not be sufficient to take full advantage of all available business opportunities. We believe our current core operations reflect a scalable business strategy, which will allow our business model to be executed with limited outside financing. However, we also may expand our operations, enter into a strategic transaction, or acquire competitors or other business to business enterprises. We have a line of credit with our primary banking institution, which will provide additional reserve capacity for general corporate and working capital purposes, and if necessary, enable us to make certain expenditures related to the growth and expansion of our business model. However, if adequate capital were not available or were not available on acceptable terms at a time when we needed it, our ability to execute our business plans, develop or enhance our services, make acquisitions or respond to competitive pressures would be significantly impaired. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement various financing alternatives or otherwise obtain required working capital if needed or desired. We are dependent on our Broker Network and franchise model We look to our Broker Network to enroll new members, train them in the use of the Marketplace, facilitate business among members, provide members with information about ITEX products and services, and assure the payment of our dues and fees. Brokers have a contractual relationship with ITEX, typically for a renewable three or five-year term. There can be no assurance that our Brokers will continue to participate in the Marketplace, or that we will be able to attract new franchisees at rates sufficient to maintain a stable or growing revenue base. We depend on the ability of our Brokers to expand the number of members and the volume of transactions through the Marketplace. We cannot assure you that the market for our products and services will continue to develop as expected. If our industry does not grow, becomes saturated with competitors, or if our products and services do not continue to achieve market acceptance, or if our Brokers are unsuccessful in enrolling new members to equalize the attrition of members leaving the Marketplace, the overall share of the market handled by our Broker Network could be reduced, and consequently our business operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on the value of foreign currency. We transact business in Canadian dollars as well as US dollars. Revenues denominated in Canadian dollars comprised 7.7% and 7.3% in the years ended July 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. While foreign currency exchange fluctuations are not believed to materially adversely affect our operations at this time, changes in the relation of the Canadian dollar to the US dollar could continue to affect our revenues, cost of sales, operating margins and result in exchange losses. 11 We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules, we are required to furnish a report by our management assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. In addition, we must comply with Section 404(b) requirements to provide an auditor’s attestation report on internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our year ending July 31, 2010. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s (“PCOAB”) Auditing Standard No. 5, adopted by the SEC on July 27, 2007, provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404. Our assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires us to make subjective judgments and, particularly because Standard No. 5 is newly effective, some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. While we have determined in our Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting included in this Form 10-K, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of July 31, 2008, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. If we identify one or more future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and such weakness remains uncorrected at fiscal year end, we will be unable to assert our internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective for a particular year (or if our auditors are unable to attest that we have maintained, in all material respects, effective internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. That would likely have an adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable ITEM 