Item 1A. Risk Factors. Catastrophe losses and reinsurance risks may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Property and casualty insurance companies are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail storms, explosions, severe winter weather and fires and may include man-made events, such as the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The incidence, frequency, and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries seek to reduce their exposure to catastrophe losses through underwriting strategies and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. Reinsurance does not relieve the Company’s insurance subsidiaries of their direct liability to their policyholders. As long as the reinsurers meet their obligations, the net liability for the Company’s insurance subsidiaries is limited to the amount of risk that they retain. However, the Company cannot be certain that their reinsurers will pay the amounts due from them either now, in the future, or on a timely basis, which could impact the Company’s liquidity. A reinsurer’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with the Company’s insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. 15 In addition, market conditions beyond the Company’s control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection its subsidiaries may purchase. A decrease in the amount of reinsurance that the Company’s insurance subsidiaries purchase generally should decrease their cost of reinsurance, but increase their risk of loss. An increase in the amount of reinsurance that the Company’s insurance subsidiaries purchase generally should increase their cost of reinsurance, but decrease their risk of loss. However, if the amount of reinsurance available is reduced, the Company’s subsidiaries could pay more for the same level, or a lower level, of reinsurance coverage. Accordingly, the Company may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect the Company’s insurance subsidiaries’ ability to write future business or result in their retaining more risk with respect to their insurance policies. Estimating property and casualty insurance reserves is inherently uncertain, and if the Company’s loss reserves are insufficient, it will have an unfavorable impact on the Company’s results. The Company establishes loss and LAE reserves to cover estimated liabilities, which remain unpaid as of the end of each accounting period, to investigate and settle all claims incurred under the property and casualty insurance policies that it has issued. Loss and LAE reserves are established for claims that have been reported to the Company as of the end of the accounting period, as well as for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to the Company. The estimates of loss and LAE reserves are based on the Company’s assessment of the facts and circumstances known to it at the time, as well as estimates of the impact of future trends in the severity of claims, the frequency of claims, and other factors. The process of estimating loss reserves is complex and imprecise. The estimate of the ultimate cost of claims must take into consideration many factors that are dependent on the outcome of future events. The impact on the Company’s loss reserves from these factors is difficult to estimate accurately. Such factors consist of, but are not limited to the following: • Changes in the length of time between the actual occurrence of the event that gives rise to a claim, and the date on which the claim is reported. • Changes in underwriting practices. • Changes in claim handling procedures. • Changes in medical care, including the impact of inflation, the extent of injuries and the utilization of medical services. • Changes in the cost of home repair, including the impact of inflation and the availability of labor and materials. • Changes in the judicial environment, including, but not limited to, the interpretation of policy provisions, the impact of jury awards and changes in case law. • Changes in state regulatory requirements. A change in any one or more of the foregoing factors is likely to result in a projected ultimate loss that is different from the previously estimated cost. Such changes may be material. The Company uses informed, subjective professional judgment in estimating the ultimate cost of claims. The estimate of the ultimate cost at any particular valuation point may vary materially from the actual cost when claims are ultimately settled. The Company continually reviews the adequacy of its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. The Company reflects any adjustments to reserves in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. The Company estimates the reserves for each product line and coverage that it writes. The Company uses a variety of generally accepted actuarial loss reserving estimation methodologies that analyze experience 16 trends and other relevant factors. These methodologies generally utilize analyses of historical patterns of the development of paid and reported losses by accident year by product lines and coverage. An accident year is the year in which the event that gave rise to the claim occurred. This process relies on the basic assumption that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and likely trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future outcomes. The expected ultimate losses are adjusted as claims mature and are eventually settled. Using the various complex actuarial methods and different underlying assumptions, the Company actuaries produce a number of point estimates for each class of business. After reviewing the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions, management selects the carried reserve for each product line and coverage. The Company does have some exposure to construction defect and asbestos claims. The estimation of loss reserves relating to construction defect and asbestos are subject to greater uncertainty than other types of claims due to differing court decisions as well as judicial interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of such policies. The insurance industry is highly competitive. The Company’s insurance businesses face significant competition. Competitive success is based on many factors, including: • Competitiveness of premiums charged • Underwriting discipline • Selectiveness of sales markets • Technological innovation • Ability to control expenses • Adequacy of ratings from A.M. Best and other ratings agencies • Quality of services provided to agents and policyholders The inability to compete effectively in any of the Company’s business segments could materially reduce its customer base and revenues, and could adversely affect the financial condition of the Company. See “Competition” beginning on pages 10 and 12, for more information on the competitive rankings in the property and casualty insurance markets and the life and health insurance markets, respectively, in the United States. A significant downgrade in the ratings of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect their businesses. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurance companies based upon criteria established by the agencies. Financial strength ratings are used by agents and clients as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. A significant downgrade by a recognized rating agency in the ratings of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries, particularly those that market their products through independent agents, could result in a substantial loss of business for that subsidiary if agents or policyholders move to other companies with higher claims paying and financial strength ratings. This loss of business could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of that subsidiary. 17 The Company’s subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation by state insurance departments and by the FDIC and state bank regulators. Insurance. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation in the states in which they do business. Current regulations encompass a wide variety of matters, including policy forms, premium rates, licensing, trade practices, investment standards, statutory capital and surplus requirements, reserve and loss ratio requirements, restrictions on transactions affiliates and consumer privacy. Banking. Fireside Bank is regulated by the California Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC. Fireside is subject to a large number of federal and state laws and regulations imposing a variety of standards and disclosure requirements. These include minimum capitalization requirements, limitations on dividends, and many requirements which relate to privacy and fairness in consumer credit, or to detection and prevention of fraud and financial crime. Effect on Operations. Insurance and banking regulatory agencies conduct periodic examinations of the Company’s subsidiaries and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. If an insurance company fails to obtain required licenses or approvals, or if any of the Company’s subsidiaries fails to comply with other regulatory requirements, the regulatory agencies can suspend or delay their operations. These federal and state laws and regulations, and their interpretation by the various regulatory agencies, are undergoing continual revision and expansion. It is not possible to predict how new legislation or regulations may impact the operations of the Company’s subsidiaries. Significant changes in these laws and regulations could make it more expensive for the Company’s subsidiaries to conduct their businesses and could materially affect the profitability of their operations and the Company’s financial results. For a more detailed discussion of the regulations applicable to the Company’s subsidiaries, see “Insurance Regulation” and “Consumer Finance Regulation” under “Regulation”, beginning on page 14. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on the Company’s insurance businesses are uncertain. As industry practices and regulatory, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to insurance claims and coverages may emerge. For example, the insurance industry is confronted with a number of complicated coverage issues arising out of the 2005 hurricanes in the Gulf Coast states. These emerging practices, conditions and issues could adversely affect the Company’s insurance businesses by either extending coverages beyond the Company’s underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. The effects of such unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict, but could harm the business of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. Legal and regulatory proceedings are unpredictable. The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of its businesses. Many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities, and the outcomes of these matters are difficult to predict. For further information about the Company’s pending litigation, see “Item 3, Legal Proceedings”, on page 21. 18 The Company is dependent on receiving dividends from its subsidiaries to service its debt and to pay dividends to its shareholders. As a holding company with no business operations of its own, the Company depends upon the dividend income that it receives from its subsidiaries as the primary source of funds to pay interest and principal on its outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to its shareholders. The Company’s subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions from state insurance and banking laws and regulations which limit their ability to declare and pay dividends. These regulations impose minimum solvency and liquidity requirements on dividends between affiliated companies and require prior notice to, and may require approval from, state insurance or bank regulators before dividends can be paid. The inability of one or more of the Company’s subsidiaries to pay the Company sufficient dividends may materially affect the Company’s ability to timely pay its debt obligations or to pay dividends to its shareholders. The Company’s equity investments are concentrated. At December 31, 2005, the Company held 7.7 and 1.8 million shares of Northrop Grumman Corporation (“Northrop”) common and preferred stock, respectively. The total fair market value of the Company’s equity position in Northrop at year-end 2005 was $686.4 million, or 45 percent of the fair market value of the Company’s total equity portfolio (reflecting its investee at fair market value). The fair market value of the Company’s holdings of its investee, Intermec Inc. (“Intermec”) common stock at year-end 2005 was $427.8 million, or 28 percent of the fair market value of the Company’s total equity portfolio (reflecting its investee at fair market value). Its equity holdings in Northrop after tax represent approximately 21 percent of the Company’s total shareholders equity at December 31, 2005. The remainder of the Company’s equity investments is primarily composed of a diversified pool of externally managed common stock. Common stock is subject to a variety of risk factors under the umbrella of market risk. General economic swings influence the performance of the underlying industries and companies within those industries. A downturn in the economy will have a negative impact on an equity portfolio. Industry- and company-specific risks have the potential to substantially affect the market value of the Company’s equity portfolio. In particular, a downturn in the defense industry, in which Northrop competes, or the global supply chain solutions industry, in which Intermec competes, may have an adverse effect on the price of the Company’s concentrated equity holdings. The Company is subject to interest rate risk in its investment portfolio. One of the Company’s primary market risk exposures is to changes in interest rates. A decline in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company’s investment income as it invests cash in new investments that may yield less than the portfolio’s average rate. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may seek to refinance their borrowings at lower rates and, accordingly, prepay or redeem securities the Company holds more quickly than the Company initially expected. This action may cause the Company to reinvest the redeemed proceeds in lower yielding investments. An increase in market interest rates could also have an adverse effect on the value of the Company’s investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of its investment portfolio. The Company’s Consumer Finance segment receives interest on the loans it makes to its customers. The Consumer Finance segment also pays interest on the certificates of deposits it accepts. Accordingly, it is exposed to interest rate changes. Managing technology initiatives and meeting new data security requirements present significant challenges to the Company. While technological developments can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives can present short-term cost and implementation risks. In addition, 19 projections of expenses, implementation schedules and utility of results may be inaccurate and can escalate over time. Data security is subject to increasing regulation. The Company faces rising costs and competing time constraints in meeting compliance requirements of new and proposed regulations. The expanding volume and sophistication of computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards may increase the vulnerability of the Company’s data systems to security breaches. These increased risks and expanding regulatory requirements expose the Company to potential data loss and damages and significant increases in compliance costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 