Item 1A. Risk Factors.Kemper is exposed to numerous risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from recent results or anticipated future results. The following discussion details the significant risk factors that are specific to the Company. In addition to those described below, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected by other factors not presently known by, or considered material to, the Company. Readers are advised to consider all of these factors along with the other information included in this 2013 Annual Report, and to consult any further disclosures Kemper makes on related subjects in its filings with the SEC.Changes in the application of state unclaimed property laws and related insurance claims handling practices, particularly attempts by state officials to apply such changes retroactively to existing insurance policies through examinations and audits, could result in new requirements that would have a significant effect on (including an acceleration of) the payment and/or escheatment of life insurance death benefits and significantly increase claims handling costs relative to what is currently contemplated by Kemper. If attempts by state officials to impose such new requirements on existing insurance policies are successful on a wide scale, there is a potential for their collective effects to be materially adverse to the Company’s profitability, financial position and cash flows (the “Unclaimed Property Risk Factor”). In recent years, many states have begun to aggressively expand the application of their unclaimed property laws as they relate to life insurance proceeds. The treasurers or controllers (collectively, “Treasurers”) of a large majority of states have engaged private audit firms to examine the practices and procedures of life insurance companies with respect to the reporting and remittance of proceeds associated with life insurance policies, annuity contracts and retained asset accounts under state unclaimed property laws. Certain related measures are also being taken or considered by state insurance regulators, both individually, and collectively through the auspices of the NAIC. Some state insurance regulators have held administrative hearings and/or have initiated market conduct examinations focused on claims handling and escheatment practices of life insurance companies. As a result of these audits and examinations, a number of large life insurance companies have agreed to alter historic practices that were previously considered to be lawful and appropriate relative to claims handling and the reporting and remittance of life insurance policy proceeds to the states under state unclaimed property laws. Based on published reports, at least thirteen life insurance companies have entered into settlement agreements with state insurance regulators and eighteen with Treasurers. Under the terms of these agreements, the settling insurance companies typically have agreed to establish a practice of periodically searching for deceased insureds, even prior to the receipt of a death claim, by comparing their in-force policy records against a database of reported deaths maintained by the Social Security Administration or a comparable database (collectively, a “Death Master File” or “DMF”). The settlements typically apply to policies that were in force at any time since January 1, 1992. In conducting these data comparisons against a Death Master File, the insurers are required to use complex matching criteria which may result in ambiguous matches. In such cases, the insurer must either accept such matches as valid and escheat the related policy benefits to the states if the beneficiaries cannot be found, or assume a costly and administratively burdensome process of disproving any such ambiguous matches which may, in some cases, necessitate a review of older records that are not in electronic form. All settlements to date with insurance regulators have involved payment of monetary 13penalties (involving amounts ranging from about $1.9 million up to $40 million), while settlements with Treasurers have required payment of interest on sums remitted to the Treasurers dating from the date of death of the insured (rather than from a date linked to the insurer’s first awareness of death) and extending as far back as January 1, 1995. As hereafter described, Kemper’s life insurance subsidiaries (the “Life Companies”) have resisted attempts to date by certain state officials and their agents to mandate changes to the Life Companies’ claims handling and escheatment practices of the sort embodied in the foregoing settlements and have challenged through legal proceedings the authority of such officials to require such changes. There can be no assurances that the Life Companies will ultimately be successful in resisting any such attempts.Separately, the National Council of Insurance Legislators (“NCOIL”), has adopted model legislation which, if enacted by states as proposed, would require life insurance companies to compare their in-force life insurance policy records against a Death Master File for the purpose of proactively identifying potentially deceased insureds for whom the subject life insurance company has not yet received a claim, including due proof of death. Seven states have enacted legislation of this type, with varying effective dates (the “DMF Statutes”). Such statutes, if construed to apply to life insurance policies in force on the statute’s effective date, could have a significant effect on, including an acceleration of, the payment of life insurance benefits to beneficiaries or, in instances where beneficiaries could not be located, the remittance of such benefits to the states under their unclaimed property laws. In contrast, New Mexico has enacted a version of the model legislation that applies only prospectively to life insurance companies, like Kemper’s life insurance companies (the “Life Companies”), that have not previously used a Death Master File. Similarly, Alabama, has enacted a statute that applies only to policies issued on or after January 1, 2016. In addition, several states have already introduced some form of DMF Statute in 2014, and Kemper believes that it is likely that a number of other states will similarly introduce legislation of this sort in their legislative sessions this year. Kemper cannot presently predict whether any of such legislation will be enacted or, if enacted, exactly what form such legislation will take. Certain of the Life Companies have filed a lawsuit challenging the validity of the Kentucky DMF Statute insofar as it purports to impose new requirements with respect to existing, previously issued life insurance policies. The trial court in that case denied the subject Life Companies’ motion for summary judgment and held that the requirements of the Kentucky DMF Statute apply to life insurance policies issued before the Kentucky DMF Statute’s January 1, 2013 effective date. The case is on appeal by the subject Life Companies and a decision by the Court of Appeals is unlikely before the second half of 2014. In July 2013, certain of the Life Companies filed a declaratory judgment action, similar to the Kentucky proceeding, in state court in Maryland, asking the court to construe the Maryland DMF Statute as only applying to policies issued on and after the statute’s October 1, 2013 effective date. The State of Maryland defendants filed a motion to dismiss the action on procedural grounds. A decision by the trial court in Maryland on the state’s motion to dismiss is unlikely before the second quarter of 2014.The Life Companies are the subject of an unclaimed property compliance audit (the “Treasurers’ Audit”) by a private audit firm retained by the Treasurers of thirty-eight states (the “Audit Firm”). In July 2013, the California State Controller (the “CA Controller”) filed a complaint for injunctive relief against the Life Companies in state court in California, seeking an order requiring the Life Companies to produce all of their in-force insurance policy records to the Audit Firm to enable the firm to perform a comparison of such records against a Death Master File and to ascertain whether any of the insureds under such policies may be deceased. The Life Companies have filed a counterclaim in this case against the CA Controller, seeking a declaration that there is no obligation under California’s unclaimed property law to perform a DMF comparison and that the Audit Firm cannot obtain the Life Companies’ records for the purpose of performing such a comparison.The Life Companies are the subject of a multi-state market conduct examination by six state insurance regulators that is focused on the Life Companies’ claim settlement and policy administration practices, and specifically their compliance with state unclaimed property statutes (the “Multi-State Exam”). In July 2013, the Life Companies received requests from the Illinois Department of Insurance, as the managing lead state for the Multi-State Exam, for a significant volume of additional information, including all of the subject Life Companies’ records of in-force policies and other information of the type requested by the Audit Firm as part of the Treasurers’ Audit and which is the subject of the CA Controller’s complaint.In September 2013, certain of the Life Companies filed declaratory judgment actions against the insurance regulators in four states participating in the Multi-State Exam, asking the courts in those states to declare that applicable insurance laws do not require life insurers to search a Death Master File to ascertain whether insureds are deceased. The subject Life Companies are also asking the courts to declare that regulators in those states do not have legal authority to (i) obtain life insurers’ policy records for the purpose of comparing data from those records against a Death Master File, and (ii) impose payment obligations on life insurers before a claim and due proof of death have been submitted. These cases are in various stages procedurally and a decision in any of them is unlikely before the second quarter of 2014. Should these various efforts by state officials succeed in retroactively imposing new claims handling and escheatment requirements with regard to previously issued life insurance policies, they could have a material adverse effect on the 14Company’s profitability, financial position and cash flows. The Company’s stance in opposition to the aforementioned actions by state legislators, Treasurers and insurance regulators, including the Company’s initiation of the litigation described above, also creates a risk of reputational damage to the Company among various constituencies (including its principal insurance regulators, rating agencies, investors, and insurance agents) if the Company’s position is not ultimately vindicated.See Note 23, “Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the sections of the MD&A entitled “Life and Health Insurance” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information on these matters. Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation, and emerging practices in the evolving legal and regulatory landscape in which they operate could result in increased operating costs, reduced profitability and limited growth.Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries operate under an extensive insurance regulatory system. Current laws and regulations encompass a wide variety of matters, including policy forms, premium rates, licensing, market conduct, trade practices, claims practices, investment standards, statutory capital and surplus requirements, reserve and loss ratio requirements, restrictions on transactions among affiliates and consumer privacy. They also require the filing of annual and quarterly financial reports and reports on holding company issues and other matters. Pre-approval requirements restrict the companies from implementing premium rate changes for property, casualty and health insurance policies, and many other actions. Insurance regulators conduct periodic examinations of Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries and can suspend or delay their operations or licenses, require corrective actions, and impose penalties or other remedies available for compliance failures. For a more detailed discussion of the regulations applicable to Kemper’s subsidiaries and these new developments, see “Regulation” in Item 1, beginning on page 11.These laws and regulations, and their interpretation by the various regulators and courts, are undergoing continual revision and expansion. The legal and regulatory landscape within which Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries conduct their businesses is often unpredictable. As industry practices and regulatory, judicial, political, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues may emerge. These emerging practices, conditions and issues could adversely affect Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries in a variety of ways, including, for example, by expansion of coverages beyond their underwriting intent, increasing the number or size of claims or accelerating the payment of claims. Industry practices that were considered legally-compliant and reasonable for years may suddenly be deemed unacceptable by virtue of an unexpected court or regulatory ruling or changes in regulatory enforcement policies and practices. One example is the changing application by various state officials of state unclaimed property laws and related claims handling practices that is discussed in the preceding risk factor. Another example involves a rule adopted in 2013 by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) codifying the circumstances in which corporate practices that result in a disparate impact on protected classes may constitute a violation of the Fair Housing Act, even though such practices are neutral on their face. Two insurance industry trade associations have filed lawsuits challenging HUD’s authority to promulgate this rule, though the outcomes of these suits will not likely be known for quite some time. Anticipating such shifts in the law and the impact they may have on the Company and its operations is a difficult task and there can be no assurances that the Company will not encounter such shifts in the future. The financial market turmoil has resulted in additional scrutiny and proposed regulation of the financial services industry, including insurance companies and their holding company systems. While it is not possible to predict how new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations may impact the operations of Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries, several recent developments have the potential to significantly impact such operations. This includes state adoption of extensive modifications to the IHCS that will, among other things, substantially expand the oversight and examination powers of state insurance regulators beyond licensed insurance companies to their non-insurance affiliates, and impose new reporting requirements with respect to, among other things, enterprise risk to the organization as a whole, affiliated transactions, and any divestiture of controlling interests in an insurer. In addition, federal legislation has resulted in regulations affecting health insurers under the Health Care Acts, and potential changes to the state insurance regulatory system may result from the DFA. See the discussion of the NAIC model act and the DFA under “Regulation” in Item 1, beginning on page 11. These new developments and significant changes in, or new interpretations of, existing laws and regulations could make it more expensive for Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries to conduct and grow their businesses.Legal and regulatory proceedings are unpredictable and, in particular, the phenomenon of runaway jury verdicts could result in one or more unexpected verdicts against the Company that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results for any given period.Kemper and its subsidiaries are from time to time involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of their businesses. Some of these proceedings may involve matters particular to Kemper or one or 15more of its subsidiaries, while others may pertain to business practices in the industry in which Kemper and its subsidiaries operate. Some lawsuits may seek class action status that, if granted, could expose the Company to potentially significant liability by virtue of the size of the putative classes. These matters raise difficult factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities, and the outcomes of these matters are difficult to predict, and the amounts or ranges of potential loss at particular stages in the proceedings are in most cases difficult or impossible to ascertain. A further complication is that even where the possibility of an adverse outcome is deemed to be remote using traditional legal analysis, juries sometimes can and do substitute their subjective views in place of facts and established legal principles. Given the unpredictability of the legal and regulatory landscape in which the Company operates, there can be no assurance that one or more of these matters will not produce a result that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results for any given period. For information about the Company’s pending litigation, see Note 23, “Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition, the availability of reinsurance and the ratings of Kemper and its insurance subsidiaries.Kemper’s property and casualty insurance subsidiaries are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail storms, explosions, severe winter weather and wildfires and may include man-made events, such as terrorist attacks and hazardous material spills. The incidence, frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and may be impacted by the uncertain effects of climate change. The extent of the Company’s losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the geographic area affected by the event and the severity of the event. The Company could experience more than one severe catastrophic event in any given period.Kemper’s Life and Health Insurance subsidiaries are particularly exposed to risks of catastrophic mortality, such as pandemic or other events that result in large numbers of deaths. In addition, the occurrence of such an event in a concentrated geographic area could have a severe disruptive effect on the Company’s workforce and business operations. The likelihood and severity of such events cannot be predicted and are difficult to estimate.The Company uses catastrophe modeling tools developed by third parties to project its potential exposure to catastrophic events under various scenarios. Such models are based on various assumptions and judgments which may turn out to be wrong. The actual impact of one or more catastrophic events could adversely and materially differ from these projections.Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries seek to reduce their exposure to catastrophe losses through the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. Reinsurance does not relieve Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries of their direct liability to their policyholders. As long as the reinsurers meet their obligations, the net liability for Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries is limited to the amount of risk that they retain. While the Company’s principal reinsurers are each rated “A-” or better by A.M. Best at the time reinsurance is purchased, the Company cannot be certain that reinsurers will pay the amounts due from them either now, in the future, or on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency or inability to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity.In addition, market conditions beyond the Company’s control determine the availability of the reinsurance protection that Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries may purchase. A decrease in the amount of reinsurance protection that Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries purchase generally should increase their risk of loss. However, if the amount of available reinsurance is reduced, Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect the ability of Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries to write future insurance policies or result in their retaining more risk with respect to such policies.Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries also manage their exposure to catastrophe losses through underwriting strategies such as reducing exposures in, or withdrawing from, catastrophe-prone areas, establishing appropriate guidelines for insurable structures, and setting appropriate rates, deductibles, exclusions and policy limits. The extent to which Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries can manage their exposure through such strategies may be limited by law or regulatory action. For example, laws and regulations may limit the rate or timing at which insurers may non-renew insurance policies in catastrophe-prone areas or require insurers to participate in wind pools and joint underwriting associations. Generally an insurer’s participation in such pools and associations are based on the insurer’s market share determined on a state-wide basis. Accordingly, even though Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries may not incur a direct insured loss as a result of managing direct catastrophe exposures, they may incur indirect losses from required participation in pools and associations. Laws and regulations requiring prior approval of policy forms and premium rates may limit the ability of Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries to increase rates or deductibles on a 16timely basis, which may result in additional losses or lower returns than otherwise would have occurred in an unregulated market. See the risk factor below entitled “Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation, and emerging practices in the evolving legal and regulatory landscape in which they operate could result in increased operating costs, reduced profitability and limited growth.”If the catastrophic risk retained by Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries increases, rating agencies may downgrade the ratings of Kemper and/or its insurance subsidiaries or require Kemper to retain more capital in its insurance businesses to maintain existing ratings. See the risk factor below entitled “A significant downgrade in the ratings of Kemper or its insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect the Company.”A significant downgrade in the ratings of Kemper or its insurance subsidiaries could adversely and materially affect the Company.Third-party rating agencies assess the financial strength and rate the claims-paying ability of insurance companies based on criteria established by the rating agencies. Third-party ratings are important competitive factors in the insurance industry. Financial strength ratings are used to assess the financial strength and quality of insurers. A significant downgrade by a recognized rating agency in the ratings of Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries, particularly those operating in the preferred and standard market or offering homeowners insurance, could result in a substantial loss of business if agents or policyholders of such subsidiaries move to other companies with higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings. Any substantial loss of business could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of such subsidiaries. A downgrade in Kemper’s credit rating by Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), Moody’s Investors Services (“Moody’s”) or Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) may reduce Kemper’s ability to access the capital markets for general corporate purposes or refinance existing debt.The insurance industry is highly competitive.The Company’s insurance businesses face significant competition, and its ability to compete is affected by a variety of issues relative to others in the industry, such as product pricing, service quality, financial strength and name recognition. Competitive success is based on many factors, including, but not limited to, the following:•Competitiveness of prices charged for insurance policies;•Selection of agents, web portals and other business partners;•Compensation paid to agents;•Underwriting discipline;•Selectiveness of sales markets;•Effectiveness of marketing materials;•Product and technological innovation;•Ability to detect and prevent fraudulent insurance claims;•Ability to control operating expenses;•Financial strength ratings; and•Quality of services provided to agents and policyholders.The inability to compete effectively in any of the Company’s insurance businesses could materially reduce the Company’s customer base and revenues and could adversely affect the future results and financial condition of the Company.See “Competition” in Item 1 of Part I beginning on page 8 and page 11, for more information on the competitive rankings in the property and casualty insurance markets and the life and health insurance markets, respectively, in the United States.Reserve National’s operating history with its expanded distribution channels and new products is limited.Reserve National’s business model, which has traditionally focused on providing limited benefit and supplemental accident and health insurance coverages to persons who lack access to traditional private options, continues to be adversely affected by the Health Care Acts. In response, Reserve National has been adapting its business model by placing emphasis on designing and selling supplemental health insurance products that are not expected to be as severely impacted by the Health Care Acts and ceasing to issue health insurance products that are expected to be severely impacted. Because Reserve National’s operating history with respect to some of these supplemental health insurance products, such as dental and vision insurance products, is limited, it supplements its data with industry data and experience in determining rates to charge for these products and projecting returns. It will take several years to develop company-specific experience. Reserve National’s actual experience could adversely and materially differ from the data and experience on which assumptions and projections are based. 17Reserve National also began expanding its distribution channels during 2013. Three marketing channel initiatives have been launched - Kemper Senior Solutions, Kemper Benefits, and Kemper Dental. Kemper Senior Solutions markets small face (final expense) life insurance and home health care products focusing on the individual senior age demographic of the market place. Kemper Benefits and Kemper Dental sell voluntary supplemental insurance products in the employer market place. Brokers and non-exclusive independent agents are utilized to market and distribute products in all three of these new distribution channels. Reserve National appointed 12,900 independent agents in 2013 in connection with these initiatives. Reserve National has limited history on how its products will perform using these distribution channels. It will take several years to determine if actual performance meets, exceeds or is below expectations. If performance is below expectations, Reserve National’s financial position, returns and valuation could be adversely and materially impacted for many years due to the long-term nature of some of the products sold through these distribution channels.Failure to maintain the security of personal data and the availability of critical systems may result in lost business, reputational harm, and legal costs and regulatory penalties.Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries obtain and store vast amounts of personal data that can present significant risks to the Company and its customers and employees. An increasing array of laws and regulations govern the use and storage of such data, including, for example, social security numbers, credit card data, and personal health information. The Company’s data systems are vulnerable to security breaches due to the sophistication of cyber-attacks, viruses, malware, hackers and other external hazards, as well as inadvertent errors, equipment and system failures, and employee misconduct. The Company also relies on the ability of its business partners to maintain secure systems and processes that comply with legal requirements and protect personal data. These increased risks and expanding regulatory requirements related to personal data security expose the Company to potential data loss and resulting damages, reputational risk and significant increases in compliance and litigation costs. In the event of non-compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, an information security standard for organizations that handle cardholder information for the major debit, credit, prepaid, e-purse, ATM and point-of-sale cards, such organizations could prevent Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries from collecting premium payments from customers by way of such cards and impose significant fines on Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries.The Company’s business operations rely on the continuous availability of its computer systems. In addition to disruptions caused by cyber-attacks or other data breaches, such systems may be adversely affected by natural and man-made catastrophes. The Company’s failure to maintain business continuity in the wake of such events may prevent the timely completion of critical processes across its operations, including, for example, insurance policy administration, claims processing, billing, treasury and investment operations and payroll. These failures could result in significant loss of business, fines and litigation. The Company’s investment portfolio is exposed to a variety of risks that may negatively impact net investment income and cause realized and unrealized losses.The Company maintains a diversified investment portfolio that is exposed to significant financial and capital market risks, including interest rate, credit, equity price, liquidity risks, risks from changes in tax laws and regulations, and other general economic conditions.The interest rate environment has a significant impact on the Company’s financial results and position. In recent years, rates have been at or near historic lows. A protracted low interest rate environment would continue to place pressure on net investment income, particularly related to fixed income securities, short-term investments and limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships accounted for under the equity method of accounting (“Equity Method Limited Liability Investments”) that invest in distressed and mezzanine debt of other companies. A decline in interest rates would generally increase the carrying value of the Company’s fixed income securities and its Equity Method Limited Liability Investments that exhibit debt-like characteristics, but it may have an adverse effect on the Company’s investment income as it invests cash in new investments that may yield less than the portfolio’s average rate. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may seek to refinance their borrowings at lower rates and, accordingly, prepay or redeem securities the Company holds as investments more quickly than the Company initially expected. Such prepayment or redemption action may cause the Company to reinvest the redeemed proceeds in lower yielding investments. An increase in interest rates would generally reduce the carrying value of a substantial portion of the Company’s investment portfolio, particularly fixed income securities and Equity Method Limited Liability Investments, which typically provide higher returns but at a higher risk.The Company invests a significant portion of its investment portfolio in equity securities, which generally have more volatile returns than fixed income securities and may experience sustained periods of depressed values. There are multiple factors that could negatively impact the performance of the Company’s equity portfolio, including general economic conditions, industry or sector deterioration and issuer-specific concerns. A decline in equity values may result in a decrease in dividend income, realized losses upon sales of the securities, or other-than-temporary impairment charges on securities still held. 18Interest rates and equity returns also have a significant impact on the Company’s pension and postretirement employee benefit plans. In addition to the impact on carrying values and yields of the underlying assets of the funded plans, interest rates also impact the discounting of the projected and accumulated benefit obligations of the plans. A decrease in interest rates may have a negative impact on the funded status of the plans.The nature and cash flow needs of the Company and the insurance industry in general present certain liquidity risks that may impact the return of the investment portfolio. If the Company were to experience several significant catastrophic events over a relatively short period of time, investments may have to be sold in advance of their maturity dates to fund payments to claimants, which could result in realized losses. Additionally, increases in illiquidity in the financial markets may increase uncertainty in the valuations of the Company’s investments. This increases the risk that the fair values reported in the Company’s consolidated financial statements may differ from the actual price that may be obtained in an orderly sales transaction.The Company has also benefited from certain tax laws related to its investment portfolio, including dividends received deductions and tax-exempt municipal securities. Changes in tax laws may have a detrimental effect on the after-tax return of the Company’s investment portfolio.The Company’s entire investment portfolio is subject to broad risks inherent in the financial markets, including, but not limited to, inflation, regulatory changes, inactive capital markets, governmental and social stability, economic outlooks, unemployment and recession. Changes to these risks and how the market perceives them may impact the financial performance of the Company’s investments. Kemper and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to various risk rating and capital adequacy measurements that are significantly impacted by various characteristics of their invested assets, including asset type, class and credit rating. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are also subject to various limitations on the amounts at which they can invest in individual assets or certain asset classes in the aggregate. Asset risk is one factor used by insurance regulators and rating agencies to determine the RBC for Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries. Accordingly, a deterioration in the quality of the investments held by Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries or an increase in the investment risk inherent in their investment portfolios could increase capital requirements. See risk factor below entitled “Kemper relies on receiving dividends from its subsidiaries to service its debt, to pay dividends to its shareholders or make repurchases of its stock”.These factors may inhibit the Company from shifting its investment mix to produce higher returns. The Company is also subject to concentration risk to the extent that the portfolio is heavily invested, at any particular time, in specific asset types, classes, industries, sectors, or collateral types, among other defining features. Developments and the market’s perception thereof in any of these concentrations may exacerbate the negative effects on our investment portfolio compared to other companies. Estimating losses and LAE for determining property and casualty insurance reserves, or determining premium rates, is inherently uncertain, and the Company’s results of operations may be materially impacted if the Company’s insurance reserves or premium rates are insufficient.The Company establishes loss and LAE reserves to cover estimated liabilities, which remain unpaid as of the end of each accounting period, and to investigate and settle all claims incurred under the property and casualty insurance policies that it has issued. Loss and LAE reserves are established for claims that have been reported to the Company as of the end of the accounting period, as well as for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to the Company. The estimates of loss and LAE reserves are based on the Company’s assessment of the facts and circumstances known to it at the time, as well as estimates of the impact of future trends in the severity of claims, the frequency of claims and other factors. See MD&A, “Critical Accounting Estimates,” under the caption “Property and Casualty Insurance Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses” beginning on page 58 for a discussion of the Company’s reserving process and the factors considered by the Company’s actuaries in estimating the Company’s Property and Casualty Insurance Reserves.As the process of estimating property and casualty insurance reserves is inherently uncertain, the reserves established by the Company are not precise estimates of liability and could prove to be inadequate to cover its ultimate losses and expenses for insured events that have occurred. The process of estimating loss reserves is complex and imprecise. The estimate of the ultimate cost of claims for insured events that have occurred must take into consideration many factors that are dependent on the outcome of future events associated with the reporting, investigation and settlement of claims. The impacts on the Company’s estimates of property and casualty insurance reserves from these factors are difficult to assess accurately. A change in any one or more of the factors is likely to result in a projected ultimate loss that is different than the previous projected ultimate loss, and may have a material impact on the Company’s estimate of the projected ultimate loss. Increases in the estimates of ultimate losses and LAE will decrease earnings, while decreases in such estimates will increase earnings, as 19reported by the Company in the results of its operations for the periods in which the changes to the estimates are made by the Company.The Company’s actuaries also consider trends in the severity and frequency of claims and other factors when determining the premium rates to charge for its property and casualty insurance products. An unanticipated change in any one or more of these factors or trends, as well as a change in competitive conditions, may also result in inadequate premium rates charged for insurance policies issued by Kemper’s property and casualty insurance subsidiaries in the future. Such pricing inadequacies could have a material impact on the Company’s operating results.Kemper relies on receiving dividends from its subsidiaries to service its debt, to pay dividends to its shareholders or make repurchases of its stock.As a holding company with no business operations of its own, Kemper depends on the dividend income that it receives from its subsidiaries as the primary source of funds to pay interest and principal on its outstanding debt obligations, to pay dividends to its shareholders and to make repurchases of its stock. Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions under state insurance laws and regulations that limit their ability to declare and pay dividends. These laws and regulations impose minimum solvency and liquidity requirements on dividends between affiliated companies and require prior notice to, and may require approval from, state insurance regulators before dividends can be paid. In addition, third-party rating agencies monitor statutory capital and surplus levels for capital adequacy. Even though a dividend may be payable without regulatory approval, an insurance subsidiary may forgo paying a dividend to Kemper and retain the capital in its insurance subsidiaries to maintain or improve the ratings of Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries. The inability of one or more of Kemper’s insurance subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends to Kemper may materially affect Kemper’s ability to timely pay its debt obligations, to pay dividends to its shareholders or make repurchases of its stock.Managing technology initiatives to address business developments present significant challenges to the Company.While technological developments can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives can present short-term cost and implementation risks. In addition, projections of expenses, implementation schedules and utility of results may be inaccurate and can escalate over time. The financial services industry is highly regulated, and the Company faces rising costs and competing time constraints in meeting compliance requirements of new and proposed regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.