Item 1A. Risk Factors. Most issuers, including Unitrin, are exposed to numerous risks associated with the extremely volatile and disruptive nature of the current capital and credit markets. The following discussion details the significant factors affecting the other risks that are more specific to Unitrin. Realized losses from investments may occur in the event that policyholders surrender life insurance policies or request policy loans at rates materially greater than assumed. The Company’s Life and Health Insurance segment’s principal market for life insurance consists of customers of modest incomes who desire basic protection for themselves and their families. These customers generally are families with annual incomes of less than $25,000. In a severe downturn in the economy with high unemployment rates, these customers may forgo basic insurance protection for themselves and their families in favor of basic daily necessities such as food and shelter. In such cases, customers might surrender their life insurance policies to receive the policies’ cash value or may request policy loans. While the Company’s Life and Health Insurance segment maintains short-term liquidity to meet normal policy surrender and loan activity, a material, elevated level of policy surrender and loan activity could result in the Company’s Life and Health Insurance segment selling impaired investments before unrealized losses have been fully recovered. The Company’s premium revenues could also decline due to policy surrender activity which may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Catastrophe losses and reinsurance risks may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Property and casualty insurance companies are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail storms, explosions, severe winter weather and wildfires and may include man-made events, such as the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The incidence, frequency, and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries seek to reduce their exposure to catastrophe losses through underwriting strategies and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. Reinsurance does not relieve Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries of their direct liability to their policyholders. As long as the reinsurers meet their obligations, the net liability for Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries is limited to the amount of risk that they retain. However, the 18 Table of Contents Company cannot be certain that reinsurers will pay the amounts due from them either now, in the future, or on a timely basis, which could impact the Company’s liquidity. A reinsurer’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. In addition, market conditions beyond the Company’s control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries may purchase. A decrease in the amount of reinsurance that Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries purchase generally should decrease their cost of reinsurance, but increase their risk of loss. An increase in the amount of reinsurance that Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries purchase generally should increase their cost of reinsurance, but decrease their risk of loss. However, if the amount of reinsurance available is reduced, Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries could pay more for the same level, or a lower level, of reinsurance coverage. Accordingly, the Company may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries’ ability to write future business or result in their retaining more risk with respect to their insurance policies. Estimating property and casualty insurance reserves is inherently uncertain, and if the Company’s loss reserves are insufficient, it will have an unfavorable impact on the Company’s results. The Company establishes loss and LAE reserves to cover estimated liabilities, which remain unpaid as of the end of each accounting period, and to investigate and settle all claims incurred under the property and casualty insurance policies that it has issued. Loss and LAE reserves are established for claims that have been reported to the Company as of the end of the accounting period, as well as for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to the Company. The estimates of loss and LAE reserves are based on the Company’s assessment of the facts and circumstances known to it at the time, as well as estimates of the impact of future trends in the severity of claims, the frequency of claims and other factors. As described more thoroughly above, the process of estimating loss reserves is complex and imprecise. The estimate of the ultimate cost of claims must take into consideration many factors that are dependent on the outcome of future events. The impact on the Company’s loss reserves from these factors is difficult to estimate accurately. Such factors consist of, but are not limited to, the following: • Changes in the length of time between the actual occurrence of the event that gives rise to a claim, and the date on which the claim is reported; • Changes in underwriting practices; • Changes in claim handling procedures; • Changes in medical care, including the impact of inflation, the extent of injuries and the utilization of medical services; • Changes in the cost of home repair, including the impact of inflation and the availability of labor and materials; • Changes in the judicial environment, including, but not limited to, the interpretation of policy provisions, the impact of jury awards and changes in case law; and • Changes in state regulatory requirements; A change in any one or more of the foregoing factors is likely to result in a projected ultimate loss that is different from the previously estimated cost. Such changes may be material. The Company uses informed, subjective professional judgment in estimating the ultimate cost of claims. The estimate of the ultimate cost at any particular valuation point may vary materially from the actual cost when claims are ultimately settled. 19 Table of Contents The Company continually reviews the adequacy of its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. The Company reflects any adjustments to reserves in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. The Company estimates the reserves for each product line and coverage that it writes. The Company uses a variety of generally accepted actuarial loss reserving estimation methodologies that analyze experience trends and other relevant factors. These methodologies generally utilize analyses of historical patterns of the development of paid and reported losses by accident year, product lines and coverage. An accident year is the year in which the insured event that gave rise to the claim occurred. This process relies on the basic assumption that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and likely trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future outcomes. The expected ultimate losses are adjusted as claims mature and are eventually settled. Using the various complex actuarial methods and different underlying assumptions, the Company’s actuaries produce a number of point estimates for each class of business. After reviewing the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions, management selects the carried reserve for each product line and coverage. The Company does have some exposure to construction defect and asbestos claims. The estimation of loss reserves relating to construction defect and asbestos are subject to greater uncertainty than other types of claims due to differing court decisions as well as judicial interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of the insurance policies. Fireside Bank’s automobile loan receivable portfolio is subject to default risk. The results of operations and financial condition of Fireside Bank depend, to a large extent, on the performance of its automobile loan receivable portfolio. Automobile loan borrowers may default during the terms of their loans. Fireside Bank bears the full risk of losses resulting from defaults. In the event of a default, the collateral value of the financed vehicle usually does not cover the outstanding loan balance and costs of recovery. A substantial portion of Fireside Bank’s automobile loan receivable portfolio is considered sub-prime. The risk of default for sub-prime loans is higher than for prime loans and has been accentuated by recent economic conditions. Approximately 65% of Fireside Bank’s automobile loan portfolio is concentrated in loans to borrowers residing in California. Present economic conditions in California appear to be worse than in other states. Fireside Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses that represents management’s best estimate of the inherent losses in Fireside Bank’s automobile loan receivable portfolio. If the allowance is inadequate, Fireside Bank would recognize the losses in excess of that allowance as an expense and the Company’s results of operations would be adversely affected. A material increase to the allowance for loan losses could also result in Fireside Bank’s ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets falling below 15%, the ratio level at which Fireside Bank has agreed with its regulators to maintain. In such a case, the Company would likely contribute additional amounts of capital to Fireside Bank. Such contributions could impact Unitrin’s liquidity and capital resources available for other corporate purposes. The Unitrin Direct segment may not reach profitability The Unitrin Direct segment reported significant operating losses in each of the last two years. While the Company has taken a number of actions intended to improve Unitrin Direct’s profitability including, but not limited to, implementing premium rate increases in most states, improving insurance risk selection, reducing marketing spending, modifying its direct marketing program to target a better response rate and the anticipated acquisition of Direct Response, there is no assurance that Unitrin Direct will become profitable in future years. 20 Table of Contents The insurance industry is highly competitive. The Company’s insurance businesses face significant competition. Competitive success is based on many factors, including: • Competitiveness of premiums charged; • Underwriting discipline; • Selectiveness of sales markets; • Technological innovation; • Ability to control expenses; • Adequacy of ratings from A.M. Best and other ratings agencies; and • Quality of services provided to agents and policyholders. The inability to compete effectively in any of the Company’s business segments could materially reduce its customer base and revenues, and could adversely affect the financial condition of the Company. See “Competition” in Item 1 of Part I beginning on pages 13 and 15, for more information on the competitive rankings in the property and casualty insurance markets and the life and health insurance markets, respectively, in the United States. A significant downgrade in the ratings of Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect their businesses. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurance companies based upon criteria established by the rating agencies. Financial strength ratings are used by agents and clients as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. A significant downgrade by a recognized rating agency in the ratings of Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries, particularly those that market their products through independent agents, could result in a substantial loss of business for that subsidiary if agents or policyholders move to other companies with higher claims paying and financial strength ratings. Any substantial loss of business could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of that subsidiary. Unitrin’s subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation by state insurance departments and by the FDIC and state bank regulators. Insurance. Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation in the states in which they do business. Current regulations encompass a wide variety of matters, including policy forms, premium rates, licensing, trade practices, investment standards, statutory capital and surplus requirements, reserve and loss ratio requirements, restrictions on transactions among affiliates and consumer privacy. Banking. Fireside Bank is regulated by the FDIC and the CDFI. These agencies regulate most aspects of Fireside Bank’s business and impose reporting obligations and a broad array of restrictions and requirements on such matters as capitalization, dividends, investments, loans and borrowings, and many requirements which relate to privacy and fairness in consumer credit or the detection and prevention of fraud and financial crime. Effect on Operations. Insurance and banking regulatory agencies conduct periodic examinations of Unitrin’s subsidiaries and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. If an insurance company fails to obtain required licenses or approvals, or if any of Unitrin’s subsidiaries fail to comply with other regulatory requirements, including banking regulations applicable to Fireside Bank, the regulatory agencies can suspend or delay their operations or licenses, require corrective action, and impose penalties or other remedies available under the applicable regulations. 21 Table of Contents These federal and state laws and regulations, and their interpretation by the various regulatory agencies and courts, are undergoing continual revision and expansion. The regulatory structures in the financial services industry have come under intense scrutiny as a result of the recent turmoil in the financial markets. It is not possible to predict how new legislation or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations may impact the operations of Unitrin’s subsidiaries. Significant changes in, or new interpretations of, these laws and regulations could make it more expensive for Unitrin’s subsidiaries to conduct their businesses and could materially affect the profitability of their operations and the Company’s financial results. For a more detailed discussion of the regulations applicable to Unitrin’s subsidiaries, see “Insurance Regulation” and “Fireside Bank Regulation” under “Regulation” in Item 1, beginning on page 16. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on the Company’s insurance businesses are uncertain. As industry practices and regulatory, judicial, political, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to insurance claims and coverages may emerge. These emerging practices, conditions and issues could adversely affect the Company’s insurance businesses by either extending coverages beyond the Company’s underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. The effects of such emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict, but could harm the business of Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries. Legal and regulatory proceedings are unpredictable. Unitrin and its subsidiaries are involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of its businesses. Many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities, and the outcomes of these matters are difficult to predict. For further information about the Company’s pending litigation, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” on page 24. Unitrin is dependent on receiving dividends from its subsidiaries to service its debt and to pay dividends to its shareholders. As a holding company with no business operations of its own, Unitrin depends upon the dividend income that it receives from its subsidiaries as the primary source of funds to pay interest and principal on its outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to its shareholders. Unitrin’s subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions from state insurance and banking laws and regulations which limit their ability to declare and pay dividends. These regulations impose minimum solvency and liquidity requirements on dividends between affiliated companies and require prior notice to, and may require approval from, state insurance or bank regulators before dividends can be paid. The inability of one or more of Unitrin’s subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends to Unitrin may materially affect Unitrin’s ability to timely pay its debt obligations or to pay dividends to its shareholders. The Company has a large equity concentration in Intermec, Inc. The fair value of the Company’s investment in the common stock of its investee, Intermec, Inc. (“Intermec”), at December 31, 2008 was $168.1 million, or 43 percent of the fair value of the Company’s total equity portfolio (reflecting its investee at fair value). The Company’s investment in Intermec common stock is subject to a variety of risk factors under the umbrella of market risk. General economic swings influence Intermec’s performance. A downturn in the economy could have a negative impact on Intermec. A downturn in the global supply chain solutions industry, in which Intermec competes, may have an adverse effect on the fair value of the Company’s investment in Intermec common stock. 22 Table of Contents The Company’s investments in limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships are concentrated in companies and partnerships that invest in distressed and mezzanine debt and secondary transactions. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s insurance subsidiaries had $242.3 million invested in limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships accounted for under the equity method of accounting, that invest in distressed and mezzanine debt of other companies and secondary transactions. In addition, the Company’s insurance subsidiaries had unfunded commitments to invest an additional $129.0 million in such limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships. Such unfunded commitments generally may be used to fund other investments of such limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships, as well as to fund losses of such limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships. The underlying investments of such limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships and companies generally provide opportunities for higher returns, but at a higher risk than investment-grade investments. General economic swings influence the performance of the underlying investments in distressed and mezzanine debt and secondary transactions. The Company has also made direct investments in the same or similar distressed and mezzanine debt securities of certain issuers in which such limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships have made investments. A severe and continued downturn in the economy may result in deterioration in the business prospects of the issuers of the underlying investments that could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial position. The Company is subject to interest rate risk in its investment portfolio. One of the Company’s primary market risk exposures is to changes in interest rates. A decline in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company’s investment income as it invests cash in new investments that may yield less than the portfolio’s average rate. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may seek to refinance their borrowings at lower rates and, accordingly, prepay or redeem securities the Company holds more quickly than the Company initially expected. This action may cause the Company to reinvest the redeemed proceeds in lower yielding investments. An increase in market interest rates could also have an adverse effect on the value of the Company’s investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of its investment portfolio. Fireside Bank receives interest on the loans it makes to its customers. Fireside Bank also pays interest on the certificates of deposits it accepts. Accordingly, it is exposed to interest rate changes. Managing technology initiatives to address business developments and increasing data security regulations and risks present significant challenges to the Company. While technological developments can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives can present short-term cost and implementation risks. In addition, projections of expenses, implementation schedules and utility of results may be inaccurate and can escalate over time. The Company faces rising costs and competing time constraints in meeting compliance requirements of new and proposed regulations. The expanding volume and sophistication of computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards may increase the vulnerability of the Company’s data systems to security breaches. These increased risks and expanding regulatory requirements expose the Company to potential data loss and damages and significant increases in compliance and litigation costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 23 Table of Contents 