Item 1A. Risk Factors. Most issuers, including Unitrin, are exposed to numerous risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from recent results or anticipated future results. The following discussion details the significant risk factors that are more specific to Unitrin. In addition to those described below, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially affected by other factors not presently known by, or considered material to, the Company. Readers are advised to consider these factors along with the other information included in this 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to consult any further disclosures Unitrin makes on related subjects in its filings with the SEC. Catastrophe losses, whether resulting from natural disasters, terrorism or other man-made events, and reinsurance risks could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Property and casualty insurance companies are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail storms, explosions, severe winter weather and wildfires and may include man-made events, such as terrorist attacks. The incidence, frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Unitrin’s Life and Health Insurance subsidiaries are particularly exposed to risks of catastrophic mortality, such as pandemic or other events that result in large numbers of deaths. In addition, the occurrence of such an event in a concentrated geographic area could have a severe disruptive effect on the Company’s workforce and business operations. The likelihood and severity of such events can not be predicted and are difficult to estimate. Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries seek to reduce their exposure to catastrophe losses through underwriting strategies and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. Reinsurance does not relieve Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries of their direct liability to their policyholders. As long as the reinsurers meet their obligations, the net liability for Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries is limited to the amount of risk that they retain. While the Company’s principal reinsurers are each rated “A-” or better by A.M. Best at the time reinsurance is purchased, the Company cannot be certain that reinsurers will pay the amounts due from them either now, in the future, or on a timely basis, which could impact the Company’s liquidity. A reinsurer’s insolvency or inability to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. In addition, market conditions beyond the Company’s control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries may purchase. A decrease in the amount of reinsurance protection that Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries purchase generally should decrease their cost of reinsurance, but increase their risk of loss. An increase in the amount of reinsurance protection that Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries purchase generally should increase their cost of reinsurance, but decrease their risk of loss. However, if the amount of reinsurance available is reduced, Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries could pay more for the same level, or a lower level, of reinsurance coverage. Accordingly, the Company may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect the ability of Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries to write future business or result in their retaining more risk with respect to their insurance policies. 19 Table of Contents Significant catastrophe events may also result in residual market assessments and assessments for insurance industry insolvencies. Although the occurrence and amount of any such assessments can not be predicted, a significant assessment against one of Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect the results of its operations for the affected reporting period. Estimating losses and LAE for determining property and casualty insurance reserves, or determining premium rates, is inherently uncertain, and the Company’s results of operations may be materially impacted if the Company’s insurance reserves or premium rates are insufficient. The Company establishes loss and LAE reserves to cover estimated liabilities, which remain unpaid as of the end of each accounting period, and to investigate and settle all claims incurred under the property and casualty insurance policies that it has issued. Loss and LAE reserves are established for claims that have been reported to the Company as of the end of the accounting period, as well as for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to the Company. The estimates of loss and LAE reserves are based on the Company’s assessment of the facts and circumstances known to it at the time, as well as estimates of the impact of future trends in the severity of claims, the frequency of claims and other factors. See MD&A, “Critical Accounting Estimates,” under the caption “Property and Casualty Insurance Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses” beginning on page 71 for a discussion of the Company’s reserving process and the factors considered by the Company’s actuaries in estimating the Company’s Property and Casualty Insurance Reserves. As the process of estimating property and casualty insurance reserves is inherently uncertain, the reserves established by the Company are not precise estimates of liability and could prove to be inadequate to cover its ultimate losses and expenses. The process of estimating loss reserves is complex and imprecise. The estimate of the ultimate cost of claims must take into consideration many factors that are dependent on the outcome of future events. The impacts on the Company’s estimate of property and casualty insurance reserves from these factors are difficult to estimate accurately. A change in any one or more of the factors is likely to result in a projected ultimate loss that is different than the previous projected ultimate loss, and may have a material impact on the Company’s estimate of the projected ultimate loss. Increases in the estimates of ultimate losses and LAE will decrease earnings, while decreases in such estimates will increase earnings, as reported by the Company in the results of its operations for the periods in which the changes to the estimates are made by the Company. The Company’s actuaries also consider trends in the severity and frequency of claims and other factors, when determining the premium rates to charge for its property and casualty insurance products. A change in any one or more of these factors or trends, as well as competitive conditions, may also result in inadequate premium rates charged for insurance policies issued by Unitrin’s property and casualty insurance subsidiaries in the future. Such pricing inadequacies could have a material impact on the Company’s operating results. The success of Fireside Bank’s plan to exit the automobile finance business is subject to risk. The results of operations and financial condition of Fireside Bank and the success of the Company’s announced plan to exit the automobile finance business, including, but not limited to, the recovery of Unitrin’s investment in Fireside Bank depend, to a large extent, on the performance of its automobile loan receivable portfolio. Automobile loan borrowers may default during the terms of their loans. Fireside Bank bears the full risk of losses resulting from defaults. In the event of a default, the collateral value of the financed vehicle usually does not cover the outstanding loan balance and costs of recovery. A substantial portion of Fireside Bank’s automobile loan receivable portfolio is considered sub-prime. The risk of default for sub-prime loans is higher than for prime loans and has been accentuated by recent economic conditions. Approximately 65% of Fireside Bank’s automobile loan portfolio is concentrated in loans to borrowers residing in California, where the unemployment rate has been higher than the national average. Continued economic stress in the California economy could result in increases over time in loan delinquencies and loan charge-offs in Fireside Bank’s loan portfolio and consequent adverse effects on the execution of Fireside Bank’s plan to exit the automobile finance business. 20 Table of Contents Fireside Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses that represents management’s best estimate of the inherent losses in Fireside Bank’s automobile loan receivable portfolio. If the allowance is inadequate, Fireside Bank would recognize losses in excess of that allowance as an expense in the period that the Company determines that the allowance is inadequate. Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. A material increase to the allowance for loan losses could also result in Fireside Bank’s ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets falling below 15%, the minimum ratio level at which Fireside Bank has agreed with its regulators to maintain. In such a case, the Company would likely contribute additional amounts of capital to Fireside Bank. Such contributions could impact Unitrin’s liquidity and capital resources available for other corporate purposes. Fireside Bank has funded its automobile loan portfolio by issuing certificates of deposits. Accordingly, Fireside Bank is exposed to interest rate risk. While market interest rates for certificates of deposits have remained lower than the interest rates inherent in the outstanding certificates of deposits issued by Fireside Bank, an increase in market interest rates above those of Fireside Bank’s outstanding certificates of deposits could result in redemptions of certificates by Fireside Bank’s depositors at a greater pace than anticipated in Fireside Bank’s exit plan, and at a greater pace than collections of its automobile loan portfolio. In such a case, Unitrin may need to advance funds to Fireside Bank under an intercompany line of credit it has extended to Fireside Bank and may need to increase the line of credit. Advances under the intercompany line of credit could impact Unitrin’s liquidity and capital resources available for other corporate purposes. Effective December 21, 2009, Fireside Bank agreed to and became the subject of a consent order issued by the FDIC and CDFI. The consent order requires Fireside Bank to develop and submit a written liquidation plan to these agencies and to update that plan by November 30 of each year. The consent order imposes a number of additional requirements on Fireside Bank. Any failure to comply with the consent order could subject Fireside Bank to the exercise of enforcement remedies by the FDIC and CDFI. For more information about the consent order, see “Fireside Bank Regulation” under “Regulation” in Item 1, beginning on page 18. Reserve National’s business model is vulnerable to American health care reform. The U. S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate passed separate, but not identical, bills in late 2009 which would effect sweeping changes to the American health care system. In the event that some version of these bills is enacted into law, Reserve National’s business model, which focuses on providing limited health insurance coverages to persons who lack access to traditional private options, would likely be adversely affected. Depending on the provisions of any such law ultimately enacted, Reserve National might suffer significant loss of revenue and might not be able to compete effectively in the markets that it has historically served. In particular, provisions in both of the bills passed by the House and Senate would establish minimum loss ratios for health insurance policies significantly above the levels historically experienced by Reserve National. Such minimum loss ratios could adversely impact Reserve National’s ability to achieve an adequate return and may result in a significant loss of business for Reserve National. A significant loss of business could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of Reserve National and could adversely impact the Company’s ability to fully realize its investment in Reserve National, including the recoverability of $14.8 million of goodwill. Reserve National reported earned premiums of $127.0 million and net income of $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Unitrin Direct segment may not reach consistent profitability or an adequate rate of return. The Unitrin Direct segment reported significant operating losses in each of the last three years, though it operated profitably during each of the past two quarters. The Company has taken a number of actions intended to improve Unitrin Direct’s operating results including, but not limited to, implementing premium rate increases in most states, improving insurance risk selection and retention, reducing marketing spending, modifying its direct marketing program to target a better response rate and improving operating scale with the acquisitions and integrations of Merastar and Direct Response. However, there is no assurance that Unitrin Direct will be profitable or reach an adequate rate of return in future years. 21 Table of Contents Unitrin is dependent on receiving dividends from its subsidiaries to service its debt and to pay dividends to its shareholders. As a holding company with no business operations of its own, Unitrin depends on the dividend income that it receives from its subsidiaries as the primary source of funds to pay interest and principal on its outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to its shareholders. Unitrin’s subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions under state insurance and banking laws and regulations which limit their ability to declare and pay dividends. These regulations impose minimum solvency and liquidity requirements on dividends between affiliated companies and require prior notice to, and may require approval from, state insurance or bank regulators before dividends can be paid. The inability of one or more of Unitrin’s subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends to Unitrin may materially affect Unitrin’s ability to timely pay its debt obligations or to pay dividends to its shareholders. A significant downgrade in the ratings of Unitrin or its insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect the Company. Third party rating agencies, such as A.M. Best, assess the financial strength and rate the claims-paying ability of insurance companies based on criteria established by the rating agencies. Third-party ratings are important competitive factors in the insurance industry. Financial strength ratings are used by agents and clients as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. A significant downgrade by a recognized rating agency in the ratings of Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries, particularly those that market their products through independent agents, could result in a substantial loss of business if agents or policyholders of such subsidiaries move to other companies with higher claims paying and financial strength ratings. Any substantial loss of business could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of such subsidiaries. A downgrade in Unitrin’s credit rating by Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investors Services (“Moody’s”), may increase Unitrin’s future cost to borrow funds for general corporate purposes, including the refinancing of existing debt, or limit Unitrin’s ability to access the capital markets. A substantial increase in borrowing costs or limitation on Unitrin’s ability to access capital markets could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Unitrin’s subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation by state insurance departments and by the FDIC and state bank regulators. Insurance. Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation in the states in which they do business. Current regulations encompass a wide variety of matters, including policy forms, premium rates, licensing, trade practices, investment standards, statutory capital and surplus requirements, reserve and loss ratio requirements, restrictions on transactions among affiliates and consumer privacy. Banking. Fireside Bank is regulated by the FDIC and the CDFI and is subject to a consent order agreed to with these two agencies. These agencies regulate most aspects of Fireside Bank’s business and impose reporting obligations and a broad array of restrictions and requirements on such matters as capitalization, dividends, investments, loans and borrowings, and many requirements which relate to privacy and fairness in consumer credit or the detection and prevention of fraud and financial crime. Effect on Operations. Insurance and banking regulatory agencies conduct periodic examinations of Unitrin’s subsidiaries and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. If an insurance company fails to obtain required licenses or approvals, or if any of Unitrin’s subsidiaries fail to comply with other regulatory requirements, including banking regulations and the consent order applicable to Fireside Bank, the regulatory agencies can suspend or delay their operations or licenses, require corrective action, and impose penalties or other remedies available under the applicable regulations. 22 Table of Contents These federal and state laws and regulations, and their interpretation by the various regulatory agencies and courts, are undergoing continual revision and expansion. The regulatory structures in the financial services industry have come under intense scrutiny over the past year and a half as a result of the turmoil experienced by the financial markets. It is not possible to predict how new legislation or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations may impact the operations of Unitrin’s subsidiaries. Significant changes in, or new interpretations of, these laws and regulations could make it more expensive for Unitrin’s subsidiaries to conduct their businesses and could materially affect the profitability of their operations and the Company’s financial results. Numerous bills have been introduced and are currently under consideration in the U.S. Congress to reform the U.S. health care system. See the discussion in the separate risk factor above regarding the potential effect of such legislation on Reserve National’s business model. In addition, a number of bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress in response to the U.S. financial crisis which would make significant changes to the system for regulating banking and financial institutions. One proposal would require Unitrin, so long as it owns Fireside Bank, to establish a “Section 6 holding company” that would hold all of its financial activities (including insurance activities). Any legislation ultimately enacted may have considerably different provisions than those currently proposed. For a more detailed discussion of the regulations applicable to Unitrin’s subsidiaries, and the consent order applicable to Fireside Bank, see “Insurance Regulation” and “Fireside Bank Regulation” under “Regulation” in Item 1, beginning on page 16. Realized losses from investments may occur in the event that policyholders surrender life insurance policies or request policy loans at rates materially greater than assumed. The Company’s Life and Health Insurance segment’s principal market for life insurance consists of customers of modest incomes who desire basic protection for themselves and their families. These customers generally are families with annual incomes of less than $25,000. In a severe downturn in the economy with high unemployment rates, these customers may forgo basic insurance protection for themselves and their families in favor of basic daily necessities such as food and shelter. In such cases, customers might surrender their life insurance policies to receive the policies’ cash value or may request policy loans. While the Company’s Life and Health Insurance segment maintains short-term liquidity to meet normal policy surrender and loan activity, a material, elevated level of policy surrender and loan activity could result in the Company’s Life and Health Insurance segment selling impaired investments before unrealized losses have been fully recovered. The Company’s premium revenues could also decline due to policy surrender activity which may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to interest rate risk and credit risk in its fixed maturity investment portfolio. One of the Company’s primary market risk exposures is to changes in interest rates. A decline in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company’s investment income as it invests cash in new investments that may yield less than the portfolio’s average rate. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may seek to refinance their borrowings at lower rates and, accordingly, prepay or redeem securities the Company holds as investments more quickly than the Company initially expected. Such prepayment or redemption action may cause the Company to reinvest the redeemed proceeds in lower yielding investments. An increase in market interest rates could also have an adverse effect on the value of the Company’s investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of its investment portfolio. The Company’s fixed maturity investment portfolio is subject to credit risk from the issuers of the securities in the portfolio. Deterioration in the financial conditions of the issuers could result in a decline in the fair value of the Company’s fixed maturity investment portfolio. Deterioration in the financial conditions of the issuers could also result in issuer defaults and impact the Company’s ability to recover the reported value of its fixed maturity investment portfolio. Accordingly, deterioration in the credit quality of the Company’s investment portfolio could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial position. 23 Table of Contents The Company has a large equity concentration in Intermec, Inc. The carrying value of the Company’s investment in the common stock of its investee, Intermec, Inc. (“Intermec”), is reported under the equity method of accounting at cost plus the accumulated undistributed comprehensive earnings in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and was $98.4 million at December 31, 2009. The fair value of the Company’s investment in the common stock of Intermec was $162.8 million. The Company’s investment in Intermec common stock is subject to a variety of risk factors under the umbrella of market risk. General economic swings influence Intermec’s performance. A downturn in the global economy, or in the global supply chain solutions industry, in which Intermec competes, could have a negative impact on Intermec. Such results could have an adverse effect on the fair value of the Company’s investment in Intermec common stock. The Company’s investments in limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships are concentrated in companies and partnerships that invest in distressed and mezzanine debt and secondary transactions. At December 31, 2009, Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries had $285.5 million invested in limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships accounted for under the equity method of accounting (“Equity Method Limited Liability Investments”), that invest in distressed and mezzanine debt of other companies and secondary transactions. In addition, Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries had unfunded commitments to invest an additional $47.2 million in such limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships. Such unfunded commitments generally may be used to fund additional investments made, or losses incurred, by such limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships. The underlying investments of such limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships generally provide opportunities for higher returns, but at a higher risk than investment-grade investments. General economic swings influence the performance of the underlying investments in distressed and mezzanine debt and secondary transactions. Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries have also made direct investments in the same or similar distressed and mezzanine debt securities of certain issuers in which such limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships have made investments, which could exacerbate any losses attributable to poor performance of any such investments. A severe and continued downturn in the economy may result in deterioration in the business prospects of the issuers of the underlying investments that could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial position. The insurance industry is highly competitive. The Company’s insurance businesses face significant competition. Competitive success is based on many factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • Competitiveness of prices charged for insurance policies; • Underwriting discipline; • Selectiveness of sales markets; • Technological innovation; • Ability to control expenses; • Adequacy of ratings from A.M. Best; and • Quality of services provided to agents and policyholders. The inability to compete effectively in any of the Company’s insurance businesses could materially reduce the Company’s customer base and revenues, and could adversely affect the future results and financial condition of the Company. See “Competition” in Item 1 of Part I beginning on pages 13 and 15, for more information on the competitive rankings in the property and casualty insurance markets and the life and health insurance markets, respectively, in the United States. 24 Table of Contents The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries are uncertain. As industry practices and regulatory, judicial, political, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to insurance claims and coverages may emerge. These emerging practices, conditions and issues could adversely affect Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries by either extending coverages beyond Unitrin’s insurance subsidiaries’ underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. The effects of such emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict, but could materially affect the financial results of the Company. Legal and regulatory proceedings are unpredictable. Unitrin and its subsidiaries are involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of their businesses. Many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities, and the outcomes of these matters are difficult to predict. Given the unpredictability of the legal and regulatory environment in which the Company operates, there can be no assurance that one or more of these matters will not produce a loss which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results for any given period. For further information about the Company’s pending litigation, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” on page 26. Managing technology initiatives to address business developments and increasing data security regulations and risks present significant challenges to the Company. While technological developments can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives can present short-term cost and implementation risks. In addition, projections of expenses, implementation schedules and utility of results may be inaccurate and can escalate over time. The Company faces rising costs and competing time constraints in meeting compliance requirements of new and proposed regulations. The expanding volume and sophistication of computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards may increase the vulnerability of the Company’s data systems to security breaches. These increased risks and expanding regulatory requirements, including requirements related to personal data security, expose the Company to potential data loss and damages and significant increases in compliance and litigation costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 