ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors evaluating our company should carefully consider the factors described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report. Any of the following factors could materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Additional factors and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could also harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. This section should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related Notes and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Declining general economic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit crisis and equity markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The financial market crisis has continued to disrupt credit and equity markets worldwide and has led to continued weakening in the global economic environment during the first quarter of 2009. Local and state governments may face financial pressures that could in turn affect our growth rate in 2009. We cannot assure you local and state spending levels will be unaffected by the global credit crisis and if budget shortfalls occur they may negatively impact local and state information technology spending and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. A decline in information technology spending may result in a decrease in our revenues or lower our growth rate. A decline in the demand for information technology among our current and prospective customers may result in decreased revenues or a lower growth rate for us because our sales depend, in part, on our customers’ level of funding for new or additional information technology systems and services. Moreover, demand for our solutions may be reduced by a decline in overall demand for computer software and services. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues. 10 Table of Contents Our products are complex and we run the risk of errors or defects with new product introductions or enhancements. Software products as complex as those developed by us may contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such defects or errors to date, we cannot assure you that material defects and errors will not be found after commencement of product shipments. Any such defects could result in loss of revenues or delay market acceptance. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims. It is possible, however, that we may not always be able to negotiate such provisions in our contracts with customers or that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or future federal, state or local laws, ordinances, or judicial decisions. Although we maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance, and we try to structure our contracts to include limitations on liability, we cannot assure you that a successful claim could not be made or would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may experience fluctuations in quarterly revenue that could adversely impact our stock price and our operating results. Our actual revenues in a quarter could fall below expectations, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend substantially upon our contracting activity and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate and may be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, including the following: • a significant number of our prospective customers’ decisions regarding whether to enter into license agreements with us may be made within the last few weeks of each quarter; • the size of license transactions can vary significantly; • customers may unexpectedly postpone or cancel orders due to changes in their strategic priorities, project objectives, budget or personnel; • customer purchasing processes vary significantly and a customer’s internal approval, expenditure authorization and contract negotiation processes can be difficult and time consuming to complete, even after selection of a vendor; • the number, timing, and significance of software product enhancements and new software product announcements by us and our competitors may affect purchase decisions; and • we may have to defer revenues under our revenue recognition policies. Fluctuation in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal quarter our expense levels, operating costs, and hiring plans are based to some extent on projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, we could experience a reduction in operating results. As with other software vendors, we may be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which could adversely impact our operating results. We have in the past had to, and in the future may have to, defer revenue recognition for license fees due to several factors, including whether: • license agreements include applications that are under development or other undelivered elements; • we must deliver services that are considered essential to the functionality of the software, including significant modifications, customization, or complex interfaces, which could delay product delivery or acceptance; • the transaction involves acceptance criteria; • the transaction involves contingent payment terms or fees; • we are required to accept a fixed-fee services contract; or • we are required to accept extended payment terms. Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our license agreements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver and install software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle, and sometimes we do not obtain terms and conditions that permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the project is completed. 11 Table of Contents Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. The costs required to comply with such evolving laws are difficult to predict. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in an unforeseen increase in general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Increases in service revenue as a percentage of total revenues could decrease overall margins and adversely affect our operating results. We realize lower margins on software and appraisal service revenues than on license revenue. The majority of our contracts include both software licenses and professional services. Therefore, an increase in the percentage of software service and appraisal service revenue compared to license revenue could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins and could adversely affect operating results. Selling products and services into the public sector poses unique challenges. We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of software and services to state, county and city governments, other municipal agencies, and other public entities. We expect that sales to public sector customers will continue to account for substantially all of our revenues in the future. We face many risks and challenges associated with contracting with governmental entities, including: • the sales cycle of governmental agencies may be complex and lengthy; • payments under some public sector contracts are subject to achieving implementation milestones, and we have had, and may in the future have, differences with customers as to whether milestones have been achieved; • political resistance to the concept of government agencies contracting with third parties to provide information technology solutions; • changes in legislation authorizing government’s contracting with third parties; • the internal review process by governmental agencies for bid acceptance; • changes to the bidding procedures by governmental agencies; • changes in governmental administrations and personnel; • limitations on governmental resources placed by budgetary restraints, which in some circumstances, may provide for a termination of executed contracts because of a lack of future funding; and • the general effect of economic downturns and other changes on local governments’ ability to spend public funds on outsourcing arrangements. Each of these risks is outside our control. If we fail to adequately adapt to these risks and uncertainties, our financial performance could be adversely affected. The open bidding process for governmental contracts creates uncertainty in predicting future contract awards. Many governmental agencies purchase products and services through an open bidding process. Generally, a governmental entity will publish an established list of requirements requesting potential vendors to propose solutions for the established requirements. To respond successfully to these requests for proposals, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed client, and the likely terms of any other third party proposals submitted. We cannot guarantee that we will win any bids in the future through the request for proposal process, or that any winning bids will ultimately result in contracts on favorable terms. Our failure to secure contracts through the open bidding process, or to secure such contracts on favorable terms, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Fixed- price contracts may affect our profits. Some of our present contracts are on a fixed-priced basis, which can lead to various risks, including: • the failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for an engagement; • the failure to effectively manage governmental agencies’ and other customers’ expectations regarding the scope of services to be delivered for an estimated price; and • the failure to timely complete fixed-price engagements within budget to the customers’ satisfaction. If we do not adequately assess these and other risks, we may be subject to cost overruns and penalties, which may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We face significant competition from other vendors and potential new entrants into our markets. We believe we are a leading provider of integrated solutions for the public sector. However, we face competition from a variety of software vendors that offer products and services similar to those offered by us, as well as from companies offering to develop custom software. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: • the attractiveness of the business strategy and services we offer; • the breadth of products and services we offer; • features and functionality of our software; • price; • quality of products and service; • technological innovation; • name recognition; • our ability to modify existing products and services to accommodate the particular needs of our customers; and • our financial strength and stability. We believe the market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors that vary in size, primary computer platforms, and overall product scope. Our competitors include consulting firms, publicly held companies that focus on selected segments of the public sector market, and a significant number of smaller, privately held companies. Certain competitors have greater technical, marketing, and financial resources than we do. We cannot assure you that such competitors will not develop products or offer services that are superior to our products or services or that achieve greater market acceptance. We also compete with internal, centralized information service departments of governmental entities, which require us to persuade the end-user to stop the internal service and outsource to us. In addition, our customers may elect in the future to provide information management services internally through new or existing departments, which could reduce the market for our services. We could face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the public sector software application market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third-parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Further, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price of our software licenses and related services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so would have material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. We must respond to rapid technological changes to be competitive. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards in computer hardware and software technology, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to enhance existing products and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We cannot assure you that we will successfully 13 Table of Contents identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, we cannot assure you that the products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new software products or enhancements to existing products, or if such new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our failure to properly manage growth could adversely affect our business. We have expanded our operations since February 1998, when we entered the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector. We intend to continue expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This growth places a significant demand on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational systems, procedures, and controls on a timely basis. We must also identify, hire, train, and manage key managerial and technical personnel. If we fail to implement these systems or employ and retain such qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel. Our continued success will depend upon the availability and performance of our key management, sales, marketing, customer support, and product development personnel. The loss of key management or technical personnel could adversely affect us. We believe that our continued success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, integrate, and retain such personnel. We have at times experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. Competition for qualified software development, sales, and other personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. We may experience difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy. In addition, a significant portion of our growth has resulted from strategic acquisitions in new product and geographic markets. Although our future focus will be on internal growth, we will continue to identify and pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances with suitable candidates. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate future acquisitions and other strategic alliances into our operations. Acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or circumstances, legal liabilities, and amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. Some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we conduct due diligence reviews of potential acquisition candidates, we may not identify all material liabilities or risks related to acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that any such strategic acquisitions or alliances will be accomplished on favorable terms or will result in profitable operations. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our product and service offerings incorporate proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of contracts, copyrights, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. We cannot be certain that we have taken all appropriate steps to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, there has been significant litigation in the United States in recent years involving intellectual property rights. We are not currently involved in any material intellectual property litigation. We may, however, be a party to intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property rights. Further, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us in the future with respect to current or future products. Any claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation and diversion of management’s attention. Further, any claims and litigation could cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Thus, litigation to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. 14 Table of Contents Changes in the insurance markets may affect our ability to win some contract awards and may lead to increased expenses. Some of our customers, primarily those for our property appraisal services, require that we secure performance bonds before they will select us as their vendor. The number of qualified, high-rated insurance companies that offer performance bonds has decreased in recent years, while the costs associated with securing these bonds has increased dramatically. In addition, we are generally required to issue a letter of credit as security for the issuance of a performance bond. We periodically enter into long-term borrowing agreements and each letter of credit we issue without corresponding cash collateral may reduce our borrowing capacity under the borrowing agreement. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure such performance bonds in the future on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our inability to obtain performance bonds on favorable terms or at all could impact our future ability to win some contract awards, particularly large property appraisal services contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Recent volatility in the stock markets, increasing shareholder litigation, the adoption of expansive legislation that redefines corporate controls (in particular, legislation adopted to prevent future corporate and accounting scandals), as well as other factors have recently led to significant increases in premiums for directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The number of insurers offering directors and officers insurance at competitive rates has also decreased in recent years. Volatility of the insurance market may result in future increases in our general and administrative expenses, which may adversely affect future operating results. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and may be significantly affected by many different factors. Some examples of factors that can have a significant impact on our stock price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new products, or new contracts by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to patents, copyrights, or other proprietary rights; • conditions and trends in the software and other technology industries; • adoption of new accounting standards affecting the software industry; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • general market conditions and other factors. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common stock of technology companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We cannot assure you that similar litigation will not occur in the future with respect to us. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. Historically, we have not paid dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid a cash dividend since we entered the business of providing software solutions and services to the public sector in February 1998. Additionally, our bank credit agreement contains restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We intend to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Our board of directors may issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of these shares of preferred stock. These determinations may be made without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and of the Delaware General Corporation Law could also delay, prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. 15 Table of Contents Financial Outlook. From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our results, including estimated revenues or net earnings. Any forecast of our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors (including those described in this discussion), many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot be certain that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. Current and potential stockholders are cautioned not to base their entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize our entire publicly available mix of historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information regarding us, our products and services, and the software industry when evaluating our prospective results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 