Item 1A: RISK FACTORS The following list describes the most significant risks facing our company: • Our ability to respond to the competitive initiatives of other property and casualty insurers could affect our growth and pressure our pricing – We compete within the property and casualty insurance industry not only for personal and commercial insurance customers, but also for agents and brokers, particularly within our personal auto and small-business segments. We compete most notably on types of product, price, quality and depth of coverage, customer service, claims handling, and in the case of agents and brokers, compensation. On a national basis, many of our competitors have stronger brand recognition and access to greater financial resources than we do. Competition for customers and agents has led to increased marketing and advertising by our competitors, varied agent compensation structures, as well as the introduction of new insurance products and aggressive pricing. If we cannot effectively respond to increased competition for the business of our current and prospective customers, we may not be able to grow our business or we may lose market share. In addition, if we fail to maintain our discipline in pricing and underwriting in the face of this competition, our underwriting profits may be adversely affected. • Our underwriting results are dependent on our ability to match rate to risk. If our pricing models fail to price risks accurately, our profitability may be adversely affected – The profitability of our business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. We use automated underwriting tools for many of our products, as well as tiered pricing structures to match our premium rates to the risks we insure. As we expand our appetite into different markets and products, we will write more policies in markets and geographical areas where we have less data specific to these new markets, and accordingly may be more susceptible to error in our models or claims adjustment. If we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, change our pricing model to reflect our current experience, or our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins could be negatively affected. To the extent we have overpriced risks, it could further impact new-business growth and retention of existing business. • Our financial results may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business in which we participate – The property and casualty insurance market is traditionally cyclical, experiencing periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. We are currently operating in a period characterized by significant price competition. While both types of periods pose challenges to us, if we were to relax our underwriting standards or pricing in response to the competitive market, a period of increased claims activity could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. • Increased claims activity resulting from catastrophic events, whether natural or man-made, may result in significant losses – We experience increased claims activity when catastrophic events affect areas where our policyholders live or do business. Catastrophes can be caused by natural events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, earthquakes, snow, hail and windstorms, or other factors, such as terrorism, riots, hazardous material releases or utility outages. The extent of our losses in connection with catastrophic events is a function of the severity of the event and the total amount of policyholder exposure in the affected area. Where we have geographic concentrations of policyholders, a single catastrophe (such as an earthquake) or destructive weather trend affecting a region may have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot accurately predict catastrophes, or the number and type of catastrophic events that will affect us. As a result, our operating and financial results may vary significantly from one period to the next. While we anticipate and plan for catastrophe losses, there can be no assurance that our financial - 16 - Table of Contents results will not be adversely affected by our exposure to losses arising from catastrophic events in the future that exceed our previous experience and assumptions. • We may not be able to manage expenses effectively, which could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to compete in the property and casualty insurance markets – Expense reductions are important to maintaining and increasing our growth and profitability. If we are unable to execute effectively on our process improvement and outsourcing efforts to realize expense efficiencies, it could affect our ability to establish competitive pricing and could have a negative effect on our new-business growth and retention of existing policyholders. • We may not be able to attract and retain distributors for our products effectively, or our distributors may be unable to sell our policies, which may adversely affect our market share and our business – We rely principally on independent agents and brokers to sell our insurance policies. The number of traditional independent agency distributors has decreased due to consolidation from mergers and acquisitions, and independent distributors have increasing leverage with insurers seeking their business. Many insurers offer products similar to ours. In choosing an insurance carrier, an agent may consider ease-of-doing business, reputation, price of product, customer service, claims handling and the insurer’s compensation structure. We may be unable to compete with insurers that adopt more aggressive pricing policies or compensation structures; insurers that offer a broader array of products, or that offer policies similar to ours at lower prices or as part of a package of products; and those insurers that have extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Because we depend principally on our independent agents and brokers to make the ultimate sale to our policyholders, we also face competition from insurers that employ other distribution methods through captive agents or direct sales, including the Internet. While we are supplementing our distribution channel, we must continue to maintain an independent distribution network. If we are unable to maintain a strong network of independent agents and brokers, or our agents and brokers are unable to compete effectively with other distribution models, it will adversely affect our ability to write new business and retain existing policyholders, which may have a negative impact on our results of operations and prospects. • We may not be able to differentiate our products or become among the lowest cost providers – The increased transparency that arises from the use of comparative rater software could work to our disadvantage. Comparative rating software, which already is widely used in Personal Auto and Homeowners, offers competitors the opportunity to model the premiums we charge over the spectrum of personal insurance policies we sell, and in the future comparative rating may become available in Commercial Lines as well. Increased knowledge of our rating structure may allow some competitors to mimic our pricing, thereby reducing our advantage. • If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data, our ability to conduct our business may be compromised and our reputation may be harmed – We use computer systems, including our Safeco Now automated underwriting platform, to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn, interface with and rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability, and the ability of our employees, agents and brokers, to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, such as providing new-business quotes, processing new and renewal business, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, and providing customer support. Systems failures or outages and our ability to recover from these failures and outages, as well as have people to run them, could compromise our ability to perform these functions on a timely basis, which could hurt our business and our relationships with our agents and policyholders. A breach of security with respect to our systems or those of our third-party vendors providing outsourced services could also jeopardize the confidentiality of our policyholders’ personal data, which could harm our reputation and expose us to possible liability. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide security and authentication capabilities, but there can be no guarantee that advances in computer capabilities, new - 17 - Table of Contents computer viruses, programming or human errors, or other events or developments would not result in a breach of our security measures, misappropriation of our proprietary information or an interruption of our business operations. • Claims payments could exceed our reserves and adversely affect the viability and financial strength of our operations – The profitability and viability of our business depend on our ability to accurately estimate our loss and loss adjustment expense (LAE) reserves. For each of our product lines, we maintain loss and LAE reserves, reflecting our best estimates of losses insured by us and related settlement expenses we may be required to pay in connection with both reported and unreported claims. We establish reserves at levels we expect to be sufficient to meet our insurance policy obligations. The ultimate cost of losses and the impact of unforeseen events may vary materially from recorded reserves, and variances may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. • Emerging claim and coverage issues could negatively impact our business – As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions outside of our control change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increasing the type, number or size of claims. Such emerging claims and coverage issues include: (i) increases in the number and size of claims relating to construction defects that can present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; (ii) evolving theories of liability and judicial decisions expanding the interpretation of our policy provisions thereby increasing the amount of damages for which we are liable; and (iii) a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claim handling and other practices. The effects of these and other related, unforeseen emerging issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. • Prohibition on the use of customer credit or other related information in connection with pricing and underwriting could impact our competitiveness – Within the limits of state and federal regulations, our personal lines underwriting models use customer credit information to price policies. Certain groups and regulators have asserted that the use of credit may have a discriminatory impact and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit in underwriting and pricing. Elimination of the use of this information for underwriting purposes could have an adverse affect on our profitability. • The insurance industry is subject to extensive regulation, and changes within this regulatory environment could adversely affect our operating costs and limit the growth of our business – We conduct our business in a highly regulated environment. State insurance regulators are charged with protecting policyholders, not shareholders, and have broad supervisory powers over our business practices. For example, state departments of insurance regulate and approve underwriting practices and rate changes, which can delay the implementation of premium rate changes or prevent us from making changes we believe are necessary to match rate to risk. Because the laws and regulations under which we operate are administered and enforced by a diverse group of governmental authorities, there is always the risk that compliance with one regulator’s interpretation of a matter may conflict with another authority’s interpretation of the same issue. In addition, there is a risk that a regulator’s interpretation of an issue will change over time to our detriment. While the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry, federal legislation and administrative policies can affect us, and Congress and various federal agencies periodically discuss proposals that would provide for a federal charter for insurance companies. We cannot predict whether any such laws will be enacted or what effect they would have on our business. For an overview of regulations affecting Safeco, see the Regulation section on page 12. Changes in the overall legal and regulatory environment also may expand our liability in connection with existing policies or require us to reassess the actions we need to take to comply with evolving perceptions of law. We believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations; however, they are subject to regular - 18 - Table of Contents modification and change. There can be no assurance that changes will not be made to current laws, rules and regulations, or that any other laws, rules or regulations will not be adopted in the future that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. • Our exposure to individual risks and catastrophic losses may increase if we are unable to purchase sufficient reinsurance at acceptable rates or our reinsurers are unable to pay – We purchase reinsurance to reduce our exposure to catastrophe losses and limit our financial losses on large individual risks. This allows us to stabilize our loss experience and increases our capacity to write policies. The availability and cost of reinsurance are determined by market conditions outside our control. No assurance can be made that we will be able to obtain and maintain reinsurance at the same levels and on the same terms as we do today. If we are not able to obtain or maintain reinsurance in amounts we consider appropriate for our business, or if the cost of obtaining such reinsurance increases materially, we may choose to retain a larger portion of the potential loss associated with our policies. If we are unable to collect reinsurance proceeds because a reinsurer is unable or unwilling to pay, we may incur greater losses. If we are unable to mitigate our exposure to large losses through reinsurance for any reason, our financial condition could be adversely affected in the event of a significant catastrophe. • Judicial decisions affecting the interpretation of insurance policy provisions and coverage, together with changing theories of liability, may cause us to incur increased losses and damages – We are involved in numerous threatened or filed legal actions in the ordinary course of our operations. As a liability insurer, our involvement in legal actions typically relates to our defense of third-party claims brought against our policyholders, or our principals in the case of surety bonds. We also are commonly a defendant in policy coverage claims brought against us. For a description of our current legal proceedings, see Legal Proceedings on page 20. While we do not expect any of these actions to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or operating results, evolving theories of liability and judicial decisions expanding the interpretation of our policy provisions could increase the amount of damages for which we are liable, and increase our costs associated with defending and settling such lawsuits. Such a scenario could require us to set higher reserves for claims. • Inflationary pressures on medical care costs, auto parts and repair, construction costs and other economic factors may increase the amount we pay for claims and negatively affect our underwriting results – Rising medical costs require us to make higher payouts in connection with bodily injury claims under our policies. Likewise, increases in costs for auto parts and repair services, construction costs and other commodities result in higher loss costs for property damage claims. Thus, inflationary pressures could increase the cost of claims. These inflationary pressures may require us to increase our reserves. If we are unable to adjust pricing for our products to account for cost increases or find other offsetting supply chain and business efficiencies, it may negatively impact our underwriting profit and financial results. • Our investment portfolio includes fixed-income and marketable equity securities, and fluctuations in the fixed-income or equity markets could adversely affect the valuation of our investment portfolio, our net investment income and our overall profitability – Our investment portfolio is subject to market risks, primarily risks associated with changes in interest rates, as well as deterioration in the credit of companies in which we have invested. When interest rates rise, the value of our investment portfolio may decline due to decreases in the fair value of our fixed-income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment portfolio. In a declining interest-rate environment, prepayments and redemptions affecting our securities may increase as issuers seek to refinance at lower rates. Such a decline in market rates could reduce our investment income as new funds are invested at lower yields. Our general intent with respect to all of our fixed maturity investments is to hold them to maturity, including investments that have declined in value. This intent can change, however, due to financial market fluctuations, changes in our investment strategy or changes in our evaluation of the issuer’s financial condition and prospects. Investment - 19 - Table of Contents returns are an important part of our overall profitability, and fluctuations in the fixed-income or equity markets could negatively affect the timing and amount of our net investment income and cause our financial condition to fluctuate. • Our business operations depend on our ability to appropriately execute and administer our policies and claims – Our primary business is writing and servicing property and casualty insurance policies for individuals, families and small- to mid-sized commercial businesses. Because we deal with large numbers of similar policies, any problems or discrepancies that arise in our pricing, underwriting, billing, processing, claims handling or other practices, whether as a result of employee or outsourced vendor error or technological problems, could have negative repercussions on our financial results and our reputation if such problems or discrepancies are replicated through multiple policies or claims. Item 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports that are unresolved as of the date of this filing. 