Item 1A. Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider the information set forth below. The following risk factors describe situations in which our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially harmed, and the value of our securities may be adversely affected. You should also refer to other information included or incorporated by reference in this report.Our principal business depends upon our ability to make good decisions regarding the deployment of capital into new or existing partner companies and, ultimately, the performance of our partner companies, which is uncertain.If we make poor decisions regarding the deployment of capital into new or existing partner companies, our business model will not succeed. Our success as a company ultimately depends on our ability to choose the right partner companies. If our partner companies do not succeed, the value of our assets could be significantly reduced and require substantial impairments or write-offs and our results of operations and the price of our common stock would be adversely affected. The risks relating to our partner companies include:•most of our partner companies have a history of operating losses and/or limited operating history;•the intense competition affecting the products and services our partner companies offer could adversely affect their businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for growth;•the inability to adapt to changing marketplaces;•the inability to manage growth;•the need for additional capital to fund their operations, which we may not be able to fund or which may not be available from third parties on acceptable terms, if at all;•the inability to protect their proprietary rights and/or infringing on the proprietary rights of others;•that our partner companies could face legal liabilities from claims made against them based upon their operations, products or work;•the impact of economic downturns on their operations, results and growth prospects;•the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel;•the existence of government regulations and legal uncertainties may place financial burdens on the businesses of our partner companies; and•the inability to plan for and manage catastrophic events.These and other risks are discussed in detail under the caption “Risks Related to Our Partner Companies” below.Our partner companies (and the nature of our interests in them) could vary widely from period to period.As part of our strategy, we continually assess the value to our shareholders of our interests in our partner companies. We also regularly evaluate alternative uses for our capital resources. As a result, depending on market conditions, growth prospects and other key factors, we may at any time:•change the individual and/or types of partner companies on which we focus;•sell some or all of our interests in any of our partner companies; or•otherwise change the nature of our interests in our partner companies.Therefore, the nature of our holdings could vary significantly from period to period.Our consolidated financial results also may vary significantly based upon which, if any, of our partner companies are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements.Our business model does not rely upon, or plan for, the receipt of operating cash flows from our partner companies. Our partner companies generally provide us with no cash flow from their operations. We rely on cash on hand, liquidity events and our ability to generate cash from capital raising activities to finance our operations.We need capital to develop new partner company relationships and to fund the capital needs of our existing partner companies. We also need cash to service and repay our outstanding debt, finance our corporate overhead and meet our existing funding commitments. As a result, we have substantial cash requirements. Our partner companies generally provide us with no cash flow from their operations. To the extent our partner companies generate any cash from operations, they generally retain the funds to develop their own businesses. As a result, we must rely on cash on hand, partner company liquidity events and new capital raising activities to meet our cash needs. If we are unable to find ways of monetizing our holdings or raising additional 11Table of Contentscapital on attractive terms, we may face liquidity issues that will require us to curtail our new business efforts, constrain our ability to execute our business strategy and limit our ability to provide financial support to our existing partner companies.Fluctuations in the price of the common stock of our publicly traded holdings may affect the price of our common stock.Fluctuations in the market prices of the common stock of our publicly traded holdings may affect the price of our common stock. The market prices of our publicly traded holdings have been highly volatile and subject to fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance.Intense competition from other capital providers for interests in companies could adversely affect our ability to deploy capital and result in higher valuations of partner company interests which could result in lower gains or possibly losses on our partner companies.We face intense competition from other capital providers as we acquire and develop interests in our partner companies. Some of our competitors have more experience identifying, acquiring and selling companies and have greater financial and management resources, brand name recognition or industry contacts than we have. Competition from other capital providers could adversely affect our ability to deploy capital. In addition, despite making most of our acquisitions at a stage when our partner companies are not publicly traded, we may still pay higher prices for those equity interests because of higher valuations of similar public companies and competition from other acquirers and capital providers, which could result in lower gains or possibly losses.We may be unable to obtain maximum value for our holdings or to sell our holdings on a timely basis.We hold significant positions in our partner companies. Consequently, if we were to divest all or part of our holdings in a partner company, we may have to sell our interests at a relative discount to a price which may be received by a seller of a smaller portion. For partner companies with publicly traded stock, we may be unable to sell our holdings at then-quoted market prices. The trading volume and public float in the common stock of a publicly traded partner company may be small relative to our holdings. As a result, any significant open-market divestiture by us of our holdings in such a partner company, if possible at all, would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock and on our proceeds from such a divestiture. Additionally, we may not be able to take our partner companies public as a means of monetizing our position or creating shareholder value.Registration and other requirements under applicable securities laws and contractual restrictions also may adversely affect our ability to dispose of our holdings on a timely basis.Our success is dependent on our senior management.Our success is dependent on our senior management team’s ability to execute our strategy. A loss of one or more of the members of our senior management team without adequate replacement could have a material adverse effect on us.Our business strategy may not be successful if valuations in the market sectors in which our partner companies participate decline.Our strategy involves creating value for our shareholders by helping our partner companies build value and, if appropriate, accessing the public and private capital markets. Therefore, our success is dependent on the value of our partner companies as determined by the public and private capital markets. Many factors, including reduced market interest, may cause the market value of our partner companies to decline. If valuations in the market sectors in which our partner companies participate decline, their access to the public and private capital markets on terms acceptable to them may be limited.Our partner companies could make business decisions that are not in our best interests or with which we do not agree, which could impair the value of our holdings.Although we may seek a controlling or influential equity interest and participation in the management of our partner companies, we may not be able to control the significant business decisions of our partner companies. We may have shared control or no control over some of our partner companies. In addition, although we currently own a significant, influential interest in some of our partner companies, we do not maintain a controlling interest in any of our partner companies. Acquisitions of interests in partner companies in which we share or have no control, and the dilution of our interests in or loss of control of partner companies, will involve additional risks that could cause the performance of our interests and our operating results to suffer, including:•the management of a partner company having economic or business interests or objectives that are different from ours; and•the partner companies not taking our advice with respect to the financial or operating issues they may encounter.12Table of ContentsOur inability to control our partner companies also could prevent us from assisting them, financially or otherwise, or could prevent us from liquidating our interests in them at a time or at a price that is favorable to us. Additionally, our partner companies may not act in ways that are consistent with our business strategy. These factors could hamper our ability to maximize returns on our interests and cause us to incur losses on our interests in these partner companies.We may have to buy, sell or retain assets when we would otherwise not wish to do so in order to avoid registration under the Investment Company Act.The Investment Company Act of 1940 regulates companies which are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. Under the Investment Company Act, a company may be deemed to be an investment company if it owns investment securities with a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (excluding government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, unless an exemption or safe harbor applies. We refer to this test as the “40% Test.” Securities issued by companies other than consolidated partner companies are generally considered “investment securities” for purposes of the Investment Company Act, unless other circumstances exist which actively involve the company holding such interests in the management of the underlying company. We are a company that partners with growth-stage companies to build value; we are not engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We are in compliance with the 40% Test. Consequently, we do not believe that we are an investment company under the Investment Company Act.We monitor our compliance with the 40% Test and seek to conduct our business activities to comply with this test. It is not feasible for us to be regulated as an investment company because the Investment Company Act rules are inconsistent with our strategy of actively helping our partner companies in their efforts to build value. In order to continue to comply with the 40% Test, we may need to take various actions which we would otherwise not pursue. For example, we may need to retain a controlling interest in a partner company that we no longer consider strategic, we may not be able to acquire an interest in a company unless we are able to obtain a controlling ownership interest in the company, or we may be limited in the manner or timing in which we sell our interests in a partner company. Our ownership levels also may be affected if our partner companies are acquired by third parties or if our partner companies issue stock which dilutes our controlling ownership interest. The actions we may need to take to address these issues while maintaining compliance with the 40% Test could adversely affect our ability to create and realize value at our partner companies.Economic disruptions and downturns may have negative repercussions for us.Events in the United States and international capital markets, debt markets and economies may negatively impact our ability to pursue certain tactical and strategic initiatives, such as accessing additional public or private equity or debt financing for us or for our partner companies and selling our interests in partner companies on terms acceptable to us and in time frames consistent with our expectations.We cannot provide assurance that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future.We cannot assure you that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in a material weakness, or could result in material misstatements in our Consolidated Financial Statements. These misstatements could result in a restatement of our Consolidated Financial Statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and/or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price.Risks Related to Our Partner CompaniesMost of our partner companies have a history of operating losses and/or limited operating history and may never be profitable.Most of our partner companies have a history of operating losses and/or limited operating history, have significant historical losses and may never be profitable. Many have incurred substantial costs to develop and market their products, have incurred net losses and cannot fund their cash needs from operations. We expect that the operating expenses of certain of our partner companies will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as they continue to develop products and services, increase sales and marketing efforts, and expand operations.13Table of ContentsOur partner companies face intense competition, which could adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for growth.There is intense competition in the technology and healthcare marketplaces, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for growth will be materially adversely affected if our partner companies are not able to compete successfully. Many of the present and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than those of our partner companies. This may place our partner companies at a disadvantage in responding to the offerings of their competitors, technological changes or changes in client requirements. Also, our partner companies may be at a competitive disadvantage because many of their competitors have greater name recognition, more extensive client bases and a broader range of product offerings. In addition, our partner companies may compete against one another.The success or failure of many of our partner companies is dependent upon the ultimate effectiveness of newly-created information technologies, medical devices, healthcare diagnostics, etc.Our partner companies’ business strategies are often highly dependent upon the successful launch and commercialization of an innovative information technology, medical device, healthcare diagnostic, or similar device or technology. Despite all of our efforts to understand the research and development underlying the innovation or creation of such technologies before we deploy capital into a partner company, sometimes the performance of the technology or device does not match our expectations or those of our partner company. In those situations, it is likely that we will incur a partial or total loss of the capital which we deployed in such partner company.Our partner companies may fail if they do not adapt to changing marketplaces.If our partner companies fail to adapt to changes in technology and customer and supplier demands, they may not become or remain profitable. There is no assurance that the products and services of our partner companies will achieve or maintain market penetration or commercial success, or that the businesses of our partner companies will be successful.The healthcare and technology marketplaces are characterized by:•rapidly changing technology;•evolving industry standards;•frequently introducing new products and services;•shifting distribution channels;•evolving government regulation;•frequently changing intellectual property landscapes; and•changing customer demands.Our future success will depend on our partner companies’ ability to adapt to these evolving marketplaces. They may not be able to adequately or economically adapt their products and services, develop new products and services or establish and maintain effective distribution channels for their products and services. If our partner companies are unable to offer competitive products and services or maintain effective distribution channels, they will sell fewer products and services and forego potential revenue, possibly causing them to lose money. In addition, we and our partner companies may not be able to respond to the marketplace changes in an economically efficient manner, and our partner companies may become or remain unprofitable.Our partner companies may grow rapidly and may be unable to manage their growth.We expect some of our partner companies to grow rapidly. Rapid growth often places considerable operational, managerial and financial strain on a business. To successfully manage rapid growth, our partner companies must, among other things:•improve, upgrade and expand their business infrastructures;•scale up production operations;•develop appropriate financial reporting controls;•attract and maintain qualified personnel; and•maintain appropriate levels of liquidity.If our partner companies are unable to manage their growth successfully, their ability to respond effectively to competition and to achieve or maintain profitability will be adversely affected.14Table of ContentsBased on our business model, some or all of our partner companies will need to raise additional capital to fund their operations at any given time. We may not be able to fund some or all of such amounts and such amounts may not be available from third parties on acceptable terms, if at all.We cannot be certain that our partner companies will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms when needed, if at all. Because our resources and our ability to raise capital are not unlimited, we may not be able to provide partner companies with sufficient capital resources to enable them to reach a cash-flow positive position, even if we wish to do so. General economic disruptions and downturns may also negatively affect the ability of some of our partner companies to fund their operations from other stockholders and capital sources. We also may fail to accurately project the capital needs of partner companies. If partner companies need capital but are not able to raise capital from us or other outside sources, then they may need to cease or scale back operations. In such event, our interest in any such partner company will become less valuable.Economic disruptions and downturns may negatively affect our partner companies’ plans and their results of operations.Many of our partner companies are largely dependent upon outside sources of capital to fund their operations. Disruptions in the availability of capital from such sources will negatively affect the ability of such partner companies to pursue their business models and will force such companies to revise their growth and development plans accordingly. Any such changes will, in turn, negatively affect our ability to realize the value of our capital deployments in such partner companies.In addition, downturns in the economy as well as possible governmental responses to such downturns and/or to specific situations in the economy could affect the business prospects of certain of our partner companies, including, but not limited to, in the following ways: weaknesses in the financial services industries; reduced business and/or consumer spending; and/or systemic changes in the ways the healthcare system operates in the United States.Some of our partner companies may be unable to protect their proprietary rights and may infringe on the proprietary rights of others.Our partner companies assert various forms of intellectual property protection. Intellectual property may constitute an important part of partner company assets and competitive strengths. Federal law, most typically copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, generally protects intellectual property rights. Although we expect that our partner companies will take reasonable efforts to protect the rights to their intellectual property, third parties may develop similar intellectual property independently. Moreover, the complexity of international trade secret, copyright, trademark and patent law, coupled with the limited resources of our partner companies and the demands of quick delivery of products and services to market, create a risk that partner company efforts to prevent misappropriation of their technology will prove inadequate.Some of our partner companies also license intellectual property from third parties and it is possible that they could become subject to infringement actions based upon their use of the intellectual property licensed from those third parties. Our partner companies generally obtain representations as to the origin and ownership of such licensed intellectual property. However, this may not adequately protect them. Any claims against our partner companies’ proprietary rights, with or without merit, could subject the companies to costly litigation and divert their technical and management personnel from other business concerns. If our partner companies incur costly litigation and their personnel are not effectively deployed, the expenses and losses incurred by our partner companies will increase and their profits, if any, will decrease.Third parties have and may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against our partner companies based on their patents or other intellectual property claims. Even though we believe our partner companies’ products do not infringe any third party’s patents, they may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, if it is ultimately determined that they do. They may have to obtain a license to sell their products if it is determined that their products infringe on another person’s intellectual property. Our partner companies might be prohibited from selling their products before they obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require them to pay substantial royalties. Even if infringement claims against our partner companies are without merit, defending these types of lawsuits takes significant time, is expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns.Certain of our partner companies could face legal liabilities from claims made against their operations, products or work.Because manufacture and sale of certain partner company products entail an inherent risk of product liability, certain partner companies maintain product liability insurance. Although none of our current partner companies have experienced any material losses in this regard, there can be no assurance that they will be able to maintain or acquire adequate product liability insurance in the future and any product liability claim could have a material adverse effect on a partner company’s financial stability, revenues and results of operations. In addition, many of the engagements of our partner companies involve projects that are critical to the operation of their clients’ businesses. If our partner companies fail to meet their contractual obligations, they could be subject to legal liability, which could adversely affect their business, operating results and financial condition. 15Table of ContentsPartner company contracts typically include provisions designed to limit their exposure to legal claims relating to their services and products. However, these provisions may not protect our partner companies or may not be enforceable. Also, some of our partner companies depend on their relationships with their clients and their reputation for high-quality services and integrity to retain and attract clients. As a result, claims made against our partner companies’ work may damage their reputation, which in turn could impact their ability to compete for new work and negatively impact their revenue and profitability.Our partner companies’ success depends on their ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.Our partner companies depend upon their ability to attract and retain senior management and key personnel, including trained technical and marketing personnel. Our partner companies also will need to continue to hire additional personnel as they expand. Although our partner companies have not been the subject of a work stoppage, any future work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on their respective operations. A shortage in the availability of the requisite qualified personnel or work stoppage would limit the ability of our partner companies to grow, to increase sales of their existing products and services, and to launch new products and services.Government regulations and legal uncertainties may place financial burdens on the businesses of our partner companies.Failure to comply with applicable requirements of the FDA or comparable regulation in foreign countries can result in fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, withdrawal of existing product approvals or clearances, refusal to approve or clear new applications or notices and criminal prosecution. Manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and medical diagnostic devices and operators of laboratory facilities are subject to strict federal and state regulation regarding validation and the quality of manufacturing and laboratory facilities. Failure to comply with these quality regulation systems requirements could result in civil or criminal penalties or enforcement proceedings, including the recall of a product or a “cease distribution” order. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations that affect healthcare insurance policy and reimbursement (including Medicare reimbursement) could negatively affect some of our partner companies. If Medicare or private payers change the rates at which our partner companies or their customers are reimbursed by insurance providers for their products, such changes could adversely impact our partner companies.Some of our partner companies may be subject to significant environmental, health and safety regulation.Some of our partner companies may be subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as to the safety and health of manufacturing and laboratory employees. In addition, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety. Compliance with such regulations could increase operating costs at certain of our partner companies, and the failure to comply could negatively affect the operations and results of some of our partner companies.Catastrophic events may disrupt our partner companies’ businesses.Some of our partner companies are highly automated businesses and rely on their network infrastructure, various software applications and many internal technology systems and data networks for their customer support, development, sales and marketing and accounting and finance functions. Further, some of our partner companies provide services to their customers from data center facilities in multiple locations. Some of these data centers are operated by third parties, and the partner companies have limited control over those facilities. A disruption or failure of these systems or data centers in the event of a natural disaster, telecommunications failure, power outage, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in product development, breaches of data security and loss of critical data. Such an event could also prevent the partner companies from fulfilling customer orders or maintaining certain service level requirements, particularly in respect of their SaaS offerings. While certain of our partner companies have developed certain disaster recovery plans and maintain backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, a catastrophic event that resulted in the destruction or disruption of any of their data centers or their critical business or information technology systems could severely affect their ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, their business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.We cannot provide assurance that our partner companies’ disaster recovery plans will address all of the issues they may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and their business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate them for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. In the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of their facilities or interrupt their operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent them from delivering products in a timely manner, their business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.16Table of ContentsRisks Related to Initiatives Outside Our Core BusinessOur involvement in the mezzanine lending industry through our relationship with Penn Mezzanine could expose us to risks that differ from, and may be in addition to, to the risks that otherwise relate to our other business initiatives.Borrowers may default on their payments, which may have a negative effect on our financial performance.Through our relationship with Penn Mezzanine, we participate in long-term loans and in equity securities primarily in private middle-market companies, which may involve a high degree of repayment risk. These borrowers may have limited financial resources, may be highly leveraged and may be unable to obtain financing from traditional sources. Numerous factors may affect a borrower’s ability to repay its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. A borrower’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by Penn Mezzanine or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans or foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross defaults under other agreements and jeopardize such borrower’s ability to meet its obligations under the participations in loans or debt interests that we hold. In addition, such borrowers may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks senior to or equally with our interests. This means that payments on such senior-ranking securities may have to be made before we receive any payments on our interests in subordinated loans or other debt securities. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in any related collateral and may have a negative effect on our financial results.We may become subject to additional laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations of other countries, as we engage in platform expansion activities.In connection with our platform expansion activities, we may manage the deployment of capital that originates other than on our balance sheet, which could include capital originating from international sources. If we were engaged in such activities, we could become subject to additional laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations of countries other than the United States, which could increase our expenses and the costs associated with legal and regulatory compliance as well as the risk of noncompliance.SubordinationThe loans and other vehicles in which we participate will typically be subordinated to the senior obligations of our borrowers (all or a significant portion of which may be secured), either contractually or structurally, in the case of debt securities, or because of the nature of the security, in the case of preferred stock, common stock, warrants or other equity securities. Such subordinated instruments may be characterized by greater credit risk than those associated with senior obligations of the same borrower. Adverse changes in the financial condition of a borrower, general economic conditions, or both may impair the ability of such borrower to make payments on the subordinated instruments and result in defaults on such instruments more quickly than in the case of the senior obligations of such borrower.Debt securitiesOur participation in debt instruments and obligations entails normal credit risks (i.e., the risk of non-payment of interest and principal), as well as other creditor risks, including (i) the possible invalidation of an investment transaction as a “fraudulent conveyance” under relevant creditors’ rights laws, (ii) so-called “lender liability” claims by the borrower, and (iii) environmental liabilities that may arise with respect to collateral securing the obligations. A debt instrument or obligation may also be subject to prepayment or redemption at the option of the borrower. Pursuant to rights granted to Penn Mezzanine by borrowers, Penn Mezzanine will often oversee or play a role in the management of its borrowers. If a court were to find that Penn Mezzanine’s influence on the management of a borrower caused the borrower to take actions that were in Penn Mezzanine’s interests and not in the best interests of the creditors and stockholders of the borrower as a whole, the court could cause Penn Mezzanine’s claims, which normally would be subordinated only to any senior debt of the borrower, to be subordinated to the claims of all creditors of the borrower and, in certain circumstances, the claims of the stockholders. Since we participate in the loans and other transactions entered into by Penn Mezzanine, we would be adversely affected by any such circumstance.LeverageOur Penn Mezzanine participations include borrowers with significant levels of debt. Such situations are inherently more sensitive than others to declines in revenues and to increases in expenses and interest rates. The leveraged capital structure of such borrowers will increase the exposure of those borrowers to bad business planning, adverse economic factors (or other factors) such as downturns in the economy or deterioration in the condition of the borrower or its industry. Because these 17Table of Contentsparticipations involve subordinated obligations, among the most junior in a borrower’s capital structure, the inability of a borrower to service its debt obligations could result in a loss of our principal.Minority positionsThe loans in which we participate generally represent minority interests in borrowers. Penn Mezzanine will not likely be able to control or exercise substantial influence over such borrowers.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.