ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risks and uncertainties, along with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or currently believe are not material may also adversely affect our business and operations. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, financial condition and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Industry The airline industry is heavily regulated and failure to comply with applicable laws could reduce our sales, or require us to incur additional costs to achieve compliance, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The FAA prescribes standards and licensing requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation cabin interior products and licenses component repair stations within the United States. Comparable agencies, such as the EASA, the CAAC and the JCAB, regulate these matters in other countries. If we fail to obtain a required license for one of our products or services or lose a license previously granted, the sale of the subject product or service would be prohibited by law until such license is obtained, reinstated or renewed. In addition, designing new products to meet existing regulatory requirements and retrofitting installed products to comply with new regulatory requirements can be both expensive and time consuming. From time to time, these regulatory agencies propose new regulations. These new regulations generally cause an increase in costs to comply with these regulations. For example, the FAA dynamic testing requirements originally established in 1988 under 14 CFR 25.562 are currently required for certain new generation aircraft types. The recent enactment of 14 CFR 121.311(j) will require dynamic testing of all seats installed in all new aircraft produced after October 27, 2009. EASA is expected to establish a similar rule. Compliance with this rule may require industry participants to expand engineering, plant and equipment to ensure that all products meet this rule. Smaller seating companies may not have the resources, financial or otherwise, to comply with this rule and may be required to sell their business or cease operations. To the extent the FAA implements rule changes in the future, we may incur additional costs to achieve compliance. 14 The airline industry is subject to extensive health and environmental regulations, any violation of which could subject us to significant liabilities and penalties. We are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and foreign laws and regulations establishing health, safety and environmental quality standards, and may be subject to liability or penalties for violations of those standards. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing remediation of contamination at facilities currently or formerly owned or operated by us or to which we have sent hazardous substances or wastes for treatment, recycling or disposal. We may be subject to future liabilities or obligations as a result of new or more stringent interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In addition, we may have liabilities or obligations in the future if we discover any environmental contamination or liability at any of our facilities, or at facilities we may acquire. Risks Relating to Our Business We are directly dependent upon the conditions in the airline and business jet industries and a continued economic downturn could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Global financial markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption for more than two years, which at times, reached unprecedented levels as a result of the financial crisis affecting the banking system and participants in the global financial markets. Concerns over the tightening of the corporate credit markets, inflation, energy costs and the dislocation of the residential real estate and mortgage markets have contributed to the volatility in the global financial markets and, together with the global financial crisis, have created uncertainties for global economic conditions in the future. The airline and business jet industries are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. In 2008 and 2009, the airline industry was parking aircraft, delaying new aircraft purchases and delivery of new aircraft, deferring retrofit programs and depleting existing inventories. The business jet industry was also severely impacted by both the recession and by declining corporate profits. Unfavorable economic conditions have caused reduced spending for both leisure and business travel, which have also negatively affected the airline and business jet industries. The weakened global economy caused rapid declines in global air travel during 2008 and 2009. According to IATA, the economic downturn, combined with the high fuel prices experienced during most of 2009, contributed to the worldwide airline industry’s loss of approximately $11 billion in 2009. In addition, as a result of the decline in both traffic and airfares following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and threats of future terrorist attacks, SARS, H1N1, the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as other factors, such as increases in fuel costs and heightened competition from low-cost carriers, the world airline industry lost a total of approximately $52.8 billion in calendar years 2001-2009 which caused a significant number of airlines worldwide to declare bankruptcy or cease operations in the last nine years. We expect, based on current economic conditions, that air traffic will begin to return to growth in 2010. Declining air traffic has, and, if the expected increase in air traffic does not occur, will continue to negatively impact our customer base. A continued economic downturn would continue to negatively impact the airline and business jet industries, which could cause a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks inherent in international operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. While the majority of our operations are based domestically, we have significant manufacturing operations based internationally with facilities in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany. In addition, we sell our products to airlines all over the world. Our customers are located primarily in North America, Europe and the emerging markets including the Asia/Pacific Rim region, South America and the Middle East. As a result, 51% and 53% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were to customers located outside the United States. In addition, we have a number of subsidiaries in foreign countries (primarily in Europe), which have sales outside the United States. Approximately 28% and 32%, respectively, of our sales during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 came from our foreign operations. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies affect the dollar value of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries, with these fluctuations being included in a separate component of stockholders’ equity. At December 31, 2009, we reported a cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment of approximately $31.5 million in stockholders’ equity as a result of foreign currency adjustments, and we may incur additional adjustments in future periods. In addition, operating results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars for purposes of our statement of operations at average monthly exchange rates. Moreover, to the extent that our revenues are not denominated in the same currency as our expenses, our net earnings could be materially adversely affected. For example, a portion of labor, material and overhead costs for goods produced in our production facilities in the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands are incurred in British pounds or euros, but the related sales revenues are generally denominated in U.S. dollars. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar or other currencies could result in material fluctuations in foreign currency translation amounts or the U.S. dollar value of transactions and, as a result, our net earnings could be materially adversely affected. 15 Historically we have not engaged in hedging transactions. However, we may engage in hedging transactions in the future to manage or reduce our foreign exchange risk. Our attempts to manage our foreign currency exchange risk may not be successful and, as a result, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our foreign operations could also be subject to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other market barriers and political, economic and social instability in the countries where we operate or sell our products and offer our services. The impact of any such events that may occur in the future could subject us to additional costs or loss of sales, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. If we make acquisitions, they may be less successful than we expect, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have made many acquisitions in the past. We may also consider future acquisitions, some of which could be material to us. We explore and conduct discussions with many third parties regarding possible acquisitions. Our ability to continue to achieve our goals may depend upon our ability to effectively acquire and integrate such companies, to achieve cost efficiencies and to manage these businesses as part of our company. For example, we are currently in the process of integrating the HCS business with the expected completion in the first half of 2010. Successful integration of HCS's operations with those of our consumables management will depend on our ability to manage the combined operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by broader product offerings and expanded geographic coverage, and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Our efforts to integrate HCS or future acquisitions could be materially adversely affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as regulatory developments, general economic conditions, increased competition and the loss of certain customers resulting from the acquisition. In addition, the process of integrating these businesses could cause difficulties for us, including an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our existing business and the loss of key personnel and customers. Further, the benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions may not develop. Depending upon the acquisition opportunities available, we also may need to raise additional funds through the capital markets or arrange for additional bank financing in order to consummate such acquisitions. We also may not be able to raise the substantial capital required for acquisitions and integrations on satisfactory terms, if at all. Increased leverage could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We may incur additional debt under our credit facility or through new borrowings to finance our operations or for future growth. A high degree of leverage could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; and · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry. 16 Our total assets include substantial intangible assets. The write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would negatively affect our financial results. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets. At December 31, 2009, goodwill and identified intangibles, net, represented approximately 36.6% of total assets. Intangible assets consist principally of goodwill and other identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives. If the carrying value of the tested asset exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is deemed to have occurred. In this event, the amount is written down to fair value. Under general accepted accounting principles in the United States, this would result in a charge to operating earnings. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized goodwill and identified intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, which could be material. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets) (ASC 350) we performed our annual testing of impairment of goodwill. Adverse equity market conditions caused a decrease in market multiples, including our fiscal year end market capitalization at December 31, 2008. The fair value of our reporting units for goodwill impairment testing were determined using valuation techniques based on estimates, judgments and assumptions we believe were appropriate under the circumstances. The sum of the fair values of the reporting units were evaluated based on our market capitalization determined using average share prices within a reasonable period of time near December 31, 2008, plus an estimated control premium plus the fair value of our debt obligations. The decrease in the market multiples and our market capitalization resulted in a decline in the fair value of our reporting units as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge related to goodwill and intangible assets of approximately $390.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We also performed our annual testing of impairment of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2009. There was no impairment recorded in 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the remaining balances of goodwill and intangible assets were $703.2 million and $337.4 million, respectively. We have a significant backlog that may be deferred or may not entirely be realized. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $2.7 billion of backlog. Given the nature of our industry and customers, there is a risk that orders forming part of our backlog may be cancelled or deferred due to economic conditions or fluctuations in our customers’ business needs, purchasing budgets or inventory management practices. For example, at December 31, 2008, several large retrofit programs that were scheduled for delivery in 2009 were deferred until 2010 and 2011, which negatively impacted our revenues and profits for 2009. Failure to realize sales from our existing or future backlog would negatively impact our financial results. We have significant financial and operating restrictions in our debt instruments that may have an adverse effect on our operations. The credit agreement governing our senior bank borrowings contains numerous financial and operating covenants that limit our ability to incur additional or repay existing indebtedness, to create liens or other encumbrances, to make certain payments and investments, including dividend payments, to engage in transactions with affiliates, to engage in sale/leaseback transactions, to guarantee indebtedness and to sell or otherwise dispose of assets and merge or consolidate with other entities. Agreements governing future indebtedness could also contain significant financial and operating restrictions. A failure to comply with the obligations contained in any current or future agreement governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under our current or any future bank credit facility, any future indentures or agreements governing our debt securities, which could permit acceleration of the related debt and acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. We may not have, or may not be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make any required accelerated payments. We compete with a number of established companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources than we do, and we may not be able to compete effectively with these companies. We compete with numerous established companies. Some of these companies, have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources than we do. Our ability to be an effective competitor will depend on our ability to remain the supplier of retrofit and refurbishment products and spare parts on the commercial fleets on which our products are currently in service. It will also depend on our success in causing our products and the new products we may develop to be selected for installation in new aircraft, including next-generation aircraft, and in avoiding product obsolescence. Developing and maintaining a competitive advantage may require continued investment in product development, engineering, supply-chain management and sales and marketing, and we may not have enough resources to make such investments, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 17 We incur risk associated with new programs. New programs with new technologies typically carry risks associated with design changes, development of new production tools, increased capital and funding commitments, ability to meet customer specifications, delivery schedules and unique contractual requirements, supplier performance, ability of the customer to meet its contractual obligations to us, and our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with such programs. In addition, any new program may not generate sufficient demand or may experience technological problems or significant delays in the regulatory or other certification or manufacturing and delivery schedule. If we were unable to perform our obligations under new programs to the customer’s satisfaction, if we were unable to manufacture products at our estimated costs, or if a new program in which we had made a significant investment was terminated or experienced weak demand, certification or other delays or technological problems, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Provisions in our charter documents may discourage potential acquisitions of our company, even those which the holders of a majority of our common stock may favor. Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition of us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws: · classify the board of directors into three classes, with directors of each class serving for a staggered three-year period; · provide that directors may be removed only for cause and only upon the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of our shares entitled to vote generally in the election of such directors; · require at least two-thirds of the voting power of our shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors to alter, amend or repeal the provisions relating to the classified board and removal of directors described above; · permit the board of directors to fill vacancies and newly created directorships on the board; · restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings; and · contain advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. You may not receive cash dividends on our shares of common stock. We have never paid a cash dividend and do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business and to repay indebtedness. Also, our ability to declare and pay cash dividends on our common stock is restricted by customary covenants in our bank credit facility and may be restricted by customary covenants in our future agreements governing future debt. If the price of our common stock continues to fluctuate significantly, you could lose all or part of any investment in our common stock. The price of our common stock is subject to sudden and material increases and decreases, and decreases could adversely affect investments in our common stock. For example from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009, the sale price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $6.32 to a high of $24.29. The price of our common stock could fluctuate widely in response to: · our quarterly operating results; · changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts; · changes in our business; · changes in the market’s perception of our business; · changes in the businesses, earnings estimates or market perceptions of our competitors or customers; 18 · changes in airline industry or business jet industry conditions; · changes in our key personnel; · changes in general market or economic conditions; and · changes in the legislative or regulatory environment. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the quoted prices of the securities of many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes often appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. We have grown, and may continue to grow, at a rapid pace. Our inability to properly manage or support the growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods and intend to continue to grow our business both through acquisitions and internal expansion of products and services. Our growth to date has placed, and could continue to place, significant demands on our management team and our operational, administrative and financial resources. We may not be able to grow effectively or manage our growth successfully, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We may be unable to retain key personnel who are key to our operations. Our success, among other things, is dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified senior management and other key personnel. Competition for key personnel is intense and our ability to attract and retain key personnel is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. The inability to hire and retain these persons may adversely affect our operations. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 