Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents we file with the SEC are various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report or otherwise adversely affect our business. · Reductions in governmental infrastructure spending could have a negative impact on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from infrastructure work funded by various government entities, including state departments of transportation such as Caltrans. Infrastructure spending by government entities could be negatively affected by the overall condition of the economy and declining tax revenues. Our ability to obtain future public sector work at reasonable margins is highly dependent on the amount of work that is available to bid. It may also affect our customer base, subcontractors and suppliers and could materially affect our contract backlog, operating results, cash flows and our ability to implement our strategic plan. · We work in a highly competitive marketplace. We have multiple competitors in all of the areas in which we work. During economic down cycles or times of lower government funding for public works projects, competition for the fewer available public projects intensifies and this increased competition may result in a decrease in new awards at acceptable profit margins. In addition, downturns in residential and commercial construction activity increases the competition for available public sector work, further impacting our revenue, contract backlog and profit margins. · Accounting for our revenues and costs involves significant estimates. As further described in “Critical Accounting Estimates” under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” accounting for our contract related revenues and costs, as well as other expenses, requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and processes to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reasonably dependable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and could result in the reversal of previously recognized revenue and profit. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. · Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. The single largest factor affecting our ability to profitably execute our work is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified people is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and changes in the labor supply as a result of general economic conditions, as well as our ability to provide compensation packages and a work environment that are competitive. · Fixed price and fixed unit price contracts subject us to the risk of increased project cost. As more fully described under “Contract Provisions and Subcontracting” above, the profitability of our fixed price and fixed unit price contracts can be adversely affected by a number of factors that can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time of our original bid. · Many of our contracts have penalties for late completion. In some instances, including many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a certain date. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled we may be held responsible for costs resulting from the delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. To the extent these events occur, the total cost of the project could exceed our original estimate and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss on that project. · Weather can significantly affect our quarterly revenues and profitability. Our ability to perform work is significantly affected by weather conditions such as precipitation and temperature. Changes in weather conditions can cause delays and otherwise significantly affect our project costs. The impact of weather conditions can result in variability in our quarterly revenues and profitability, particularly in the first and fourth quarters of the year. · Design/build contracts subject us to the risk of design errors and omissions. Design/build is increasingly being used as a method of project delivery as it provides the owner with a single point of responsibility for both design and construction. We generally subcontract design responsibility to architectural and engineering firms. However, in the event of a design error or omission causing damages, there is risk that the subcontractor or their errors and omissions insurance would not be able to absorb the liability. In this case we may be responsible, resulting in a potentially material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents · Failure of our subcontractors to perform as anticipated could have a negative effect on our results. As further described under “Contract Provisions and Subcontracting” above, we subcontract portions of many of our contracts to specialty subcontractors, but we are ultimately responsible for the successful completion of their work. Although we seek to require bonding or other forms of guarantees, we are not always successful in obtaining those bonds or guarantees from our higher risk subcontractors. In this case we may be responsible, resulting in a potentially adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. · We may be unable to identify qualified Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (“DBE”) contractors to perform as subcontractors. Certain of our government agency projects contain minimum DBE participation clauses. If we subsequently fail to complete these projects with the minimum DBE participation, we may be held responsible for breach of contract damages which may include restrictions on our ability to bid on future projects as well as monetary damages. To the extent we are responsible for monetary damages, the total costs of the project could exceed our original estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. · Government contracts generally have strict regulatory requirements. Approximately 86.0% of our consolidated revenue in 2009 was derived from contracts funded by federal, state and local government agencies and authorities. Government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of socioeconomic requirements relating to their formation, administration, performance and accounting and often include express or implied certifications of compliance. Claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought for violations of regulations, requirements or statutes. We may also be subject to qui tam (“Whistle Blower”) litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Further, if we fail to comply with any of the regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated and we could be suspended from government contracting or subcontracting, including federally funded projects at the state level. Should one of these events occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. · We are subject to environmental and other regulation. As more fully described under “Environmental Regulations” above, we are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, workplace safety and a variety of socioeconomic requirements, the noncompliance with which can result in substantial penalties, termination or suspension of government contracts as well as civil and criminal liability. While compliance with these laws and regulations has not materially adversely affected our operations in the past, there can be no assurance that these requirements will not change and that compliance will not adversely affect our operations in the future. · Strikes or work stoppages could have a negative effect on our operations and results. We are party to collective bargaining agreements covering a portion of our craft workforce. Although our results and operations have not been significantly affected by strikes or work stoppages in the past, such labor actions could have a significant effect on our operations if they occur in the future. · Unavailability of insurance coverage could have a negative effect on our operations and results. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall risk management strategy and pursuant to requirements to maintain specific coverage that are contained in our financing agreements and in most of our construction contracts. Although we have been able to obtain reasonably priced insurance coverage to meet our requirements in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future, and our inability to obtain such coverage could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. · An inability to obtain bonding would have a negative effect on our operations and results. As more fully described in “Insurance and Bonding” above, we generally are required to provide surety bonds securing our performance under the majority of our public and private sector contracts. Our inability to obtain reasonably priced surety bonds in the future could significantly affect our ability to be awarded new contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. · Our joint venture contracts with project owners subject us to joint and several liability. As further described in “Joint Ventures; Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” if a joint venture partner fails to perform we could be liable for completion of the entire contract. If the contract were unprofitable, this could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. · Our contract backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and could be an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. We cannot guarantee that the revenues projected in our contract backlog will be realized or, if realized, will be profitable. Projects reflected in our contract backlog may be affected by project cancellations, scope adjustments, time extensions or other changes. Such changes may adversely affect the revenue and profit we ultimately realize on these projects. 11 Table of Contents · We use certain commodity products that are subject to significant price fluctuations. Diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based products are used to fuel and lubricate our equipment and fire our asphalt concrete processing plants. In addition, they constitute a significant part of the asphalt paving materials that are used in many of our construction projects and are sold to third parties. Although we are partially protected by asphalt or fuel price escalation clauses in some of our contracts, many contracts provide no such protection. We also use steel and other commodities in our construction projects that can be subject to significant price fluctuations. We enter into supply agreements or pre-purchase commodities to secure pricing. We have not been significantly adversely affected by price fluctuations in the past; however, there is no guarantee that we will not be in the future. · An inability to secure and permit aggregate reserves could negatively affect our future operations and results. Tighter regulations for the protection of the environment and the finite nature of property containing suitable aggregate reserves are making it increasingly challenging and costly to secure and permit aggregate reserves. Although we have thus far been able to secure and permit reserves to support our business, our operating results and financial conditions may be adversely affected by an increasingly difficult permitting process. · Private sector work can be affected by economic downturns. The availability of private sector work can be adversely affected by economic downturns in the residential housing market, demand for commercial property or the availability of credit. To the extent these events occur, our operating results will be adversely affected. · Granite Land Company is greatly affected by the strength of the real estate industry. Our real estate development activities are subject to numerous factors beyond our control including local real estate market conditions; substantial existing and potential competition; general national, regional and local economic conditions; fluctuations in interest rates and mortgage availability and changes in demographic conditions. If our outlook for a project’s forecasted profitability deteriorates, we may find it necessary to curtail our development activities and evaluate our real estate assets for possible impairment. Our evaluation includes a variety of estimates and assumptions and future changes in these estimates and assumptions could affect future impairment analyses. If our real estate assets are determined to be impaired, the impairment would result in a charge to income from operations in the year of the impairment. · Our real estate investments may require additional funding. Granite Land Company’s real estate investments generally utilize short-term debt financing for their development activities. Due to the tightening of the credit markets, banks have required lower loan-to-value ratios often resulting in the need to pay a portion of the debt when short-term financing is renegotiated. If our real estate investment partners are unable to make their proportional share of a required repayment, GLC may be required to provide the additional funding which could materially affect our financial position and cash flows. Also, if we assume full financial management responsibility, additional real estate investments may need to be consolidated in our financial statements. · Our long-term debt and credit arrangements contain restrictive covenants, and failure to meet these covenants could significantly harm our financial condition. Our long-term debt and credit arrangements and related restrictive covenants are more fully described in Note 11 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” included in this report. In most cases, failure to meet the restrictive covenants would result in the acceleration of outstanding indebtedness requiring immediate repayment of all amounts due and cancellation of open lines of credit. Additionally, failure to meet restrictive covenants related to our debt and credit agreements could trigger cross-default provisions that would cause us to also be in default of our surety agreements. Although we have not had difficulty meeting these covenants in the past, failure to do so in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. · As a part of our growth strategy we may make future acquisitions and acquisitions involve many risks. These risks include difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, diversion of management’s attention from ongoing operations, potential difficulties and increased costs associated with completion of any assumed construction projects, insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions and the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired companies. Acquisitions may also cause us to increase our liabilities, record goodwill or other non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to subsequent impairment testing and potential impairment charges, as well as amortization expenses related to certain other intangible assets. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The foregoing list is not all-inclusive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely affect us. These developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For these reasons, the reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 