Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in “Forward-Looking Statements.” The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Competitive Industry Conditions We face intense competition from traditional grocery retailers, non-traditional competitors such as supercenters and club stores, as well as from specialty supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, convenience stores and restaurants. Increased competition may have an adverse effect on profitability as the result of lower sales, lower gross profits and/or greater operating costs. Our ability to attract customers is dependent, in large part, upon a combination of location, quality, price, condition of assets, marketing and promotional strategies, service and consumer loyalty to other brands and stores. In each of these areas, traditional and non-traditional competitors compete with us and may successfully attract our customers to their stores by aggressively matching or exceeding what we offer. In recent years many of our competitors have increased their presence in our markets. Our responses to competitive pressure, such as additional promotions and increased advertising, could adversely affect our profitability. We cannot guarantee that our actions will succeed in gaining or maintaining market share. Additionally, we cannot predict how our customers will react to the entrance of certain non-traditional competitors into the grocery retailing business. Because we face intense competition, we need to anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands more effectively than our competitors. We strive to achieve and maintain favorable recognition of our unique private-label brands, effectively market our products to consumers, competitively price our products and maintain and enhance a perception of value for consumers. Finally, we need to source and market our merchandise efficiently and creatively. Failure to accomplish these objectives could impair our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our growth and profitability. Labor Relations A significant majority of our employees are unionized, and our relationship with unions, including labor disputes or work stoppages, could have an adverse impact on our financial results. We are a party to approximately 430 collective bargaining agreements, of which 123 are scheduled to expire in 2009. These expiring agreements cover approximately 10% of our union-affiliated employees. In future negotiations with labor unions, we expect that rising health care, pension and wage costs, among other issues, will be important topics for negotiation. If, upon the expiration of such collective bargaining agreements, we are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions, it could result in strikes by the affected workers and thereby significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to control health care and pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations. 10 Table of Contents SAFEWAY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Profit Margins Profit margins in the grocery retail industry are very narrow. In order to increase or maintain our profit margins, we develop strategies to reduce costs, such as productivity improvements, shrink reduction, distribution center efficiencies, energy efficiency programs and other similar strategies. Our failure to achieve forecasted cost reductions across the Company might have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in our product mix also may negatively affect certain financial measures. Opening and Remodeling Stores Our inability to open and remodel stores as planned could have a material adverse effect on our results. In 2009 we plan to open approximately 10 new Lifestyle stores and to remodel approximately 135 stores into Lifestyle stores. If, as a result of labor relations issues, supply issues or environmental and real estate delays, these capital projects do not stay within the time and financial budgets we have forecasted, our future financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that the new or remodeled stores will achieve anticipated same-store sales or profit levels. Future Growth of Blackhawk Blackhawk’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Consequently, actual results could differ materially from Blackhawk’s targeted earnings growth. There is no assurance that Blackhawk will continue to grow at the same rate as it has in the past. Some of the specific risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: • Blackhawk faces competition from other companies that may introduce new products that compete with products offered by Blackhawk. This could limit Blackhawk’s future growth; • Blackhawk is substantially dependent on the continuous operation and security of its information technology applications and infrastructure; • A significant portion of Blackhawk’s revenues and net earnings is realized during the last several weeks of the calendar year and are related to consumer gift purchases. A reduction in consumer spending for gifts, operational issues that result in limitations on gift cards available for sale in Blackhawk’s distribution channels, or other factors that contribute to a shortfall in sales during this period could have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial condition; • Blackhawk’s business depends on its ability to negotiate contract renewals with its key partners; • Blackhawk has operations in several international locations, and it may find a different business or competitive environment in markets outside the U.S. that could adversely affect its profitability; and • Blackhawk’s prospects could be adversely affected as a result of regulatory changes affecting the sales of gift cards or other products that Blackhawk sells or plans to sell in the future. Food Safety, Quality and Health Concerns We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether valid or not, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in product liability claims, a loss of consumer confidence and product recalls, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations. Current Economic Conditions The United States and Canadian economies and financial markets have declined and experienced volatility due to uncertainties related to energy prices, availability of credit, difficulties in the banking and financial services sectors, the decline in the housing market, diminished market liquidity, falling consumer confidence and rising unemployment rates. As a result, consumers are more cautious. This could lead to reduced consumer spending, to consumers trading down to a less expensive mix of products or to consumers trading down to discounters for grocery items, all of which could affect Safeway’s sales growth. Additionally, in this uncertain economy, it is difficult to forecast whether we are entering a period of inflation or deflation. In 2008, Safeway experienced overall inflation, while early indications suggest that there may be deflation in certain product categories in 2009. Food deflation could reduce sales growth, while food inflation, combined with reduced consumer spending, could reduce gross profit margins. We are unable to predict when the economies of the United States and Canada will improve. If these economies do not improve, Safeway’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Unfavorable Changes in Government Regulation Our stores are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign 11 Table of Contents SAFEWAY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES laws, regulations and administrative practices that affect our business. We must comply with numerous provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, food labeling, equal employment opportunity, minimum wages and licensing for the sale of food, drugs and alcoholic beverages. We cannot predict either the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, or the effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes would have on our future business. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Substantial Indebtedness We currently have, and expect to continue to have, a significant amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial health. As of January 3, 2009, we had approximately $5.5 billion in total consolidated debt outstanding, including capital lease obligations. This substantial indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If debt markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing debt: we may be required to dedicate an unplanned portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development efforts and other general corporate purposes; our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business may be limited; we might be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt; and we may be limited by the financial and other restrictive covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness. Changes in our credit ratings may have an adverse impact on our financing costs and structure in future periods, such as higher interest costs on future financings and our ability to participate in the commercial paper market. Additionally, interest expense could be materially and adversely affected by changes in the interest rate environment, fluctuations in the amount of outstanding debt, decisions to incur premiums on the early redemption of debt and any other factor that results in an increase in debt. The recent economic turmoil in the credit markets may negatively impact the Company’s ability to access debt financing in a timely manner and with acceptable terms. In the event the Company is temporarily unable to issue sufficient commercial paper or public debt to repay current maturities, we may choose to borrow under the Credit Agreement, described in Part II, Item 7 of this report under the caption “Bank Credit Agreement.” Although there can be no assurance because of these challenging times, Safeway expects that the participating banks will loan to Safeway under the Credit Agreement. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, Safeway was able to borrow under the Credit Agreement. Retirement Plans We maintain defined benefit retirement plans for substantially all employees not participating in multi-employer pension plans. The funded status of these plans (the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the projected benefit obligation) is a significant factor in determining annual pension expense as well as cash contributions to fund the plans. Historically, Safeway’s retirement plans have been well funded, and cash contributions to the plans have been relatively small. For example, cash contributions were $33.8 million and $33.0 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and were limited primarily to our Canadian retirement plans. The decline in the financial markets during 2008 resulted in a substantial reduction in the fair value of the retirement plan assets. As a result, at the end of fiscal 2008, projected benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of plan assets for all of the Company’s pension plans. In 2009, we expect pension expense to increase significantly, primarily as a result of the decline in the plan assets. The Company currently expects to contribute approximately $25.9 million to its defined benefit pension plan trusts in 2009. If market conditions do not improve, increased pension expense and cash contributions may have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, we participate in various multi-employer pension plans for substantially all employees represented by unions. We are required to make contributions to these plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. Pension expense for these plans is recognized as contributions are made. Benefits generally are based on a fixed amount for each year of service. We contributed $286.9 million, $270.1 million and $253.8 million to these plans in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe a number of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. As a result, contributions to these plans may continue to increase. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multi-employer pension plans will depend 12 Table of Contents SAFEWAY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit a market, among other factors. Additionally, the benefit levels and related issues will continue to create collective bargaining challenges. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan’s underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under very complex actuarial and allocation rules. Multi-employer pension legislation passed in 2006 and 2008 will impact the funds in which we participate, which may have an impact on future pension contributions. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, antitrust claims and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, there is an increasing number of cases being filed against companies generally, which contain class-action allegations under federal and state wage and hour laws. We estimate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish reserves for the estimated liabilities. Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties. Although not currently anticipated by management, unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in management’s evaluations or predictions, could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Insurance Plan Claims We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability, property risk, director and officers’ liability and employee health care benefits. We estimate the liabilities associated with the risks retained by us, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic and severity factors and other actuarial assumptions which, by their nature, are subject to a high degree of variability. Any actuarial projection of losses concerning workers’ compensation and general liability is subject to a high degree of variability. Among the causes of this variability are unpredictable external factors affecting future inflation rates, discount rates, litigation trends, legal interpretations, benefit level changes and claim settlement patterns. The majority of the Company’s workers’ compensation liability is from claims occurring in California. California workers’ compensation has received intense scrutiny from the state’s politicians, insurers, employers and providers, as well as the public in general. Recent years have seen escalation in the number of legislative reforms, judicial rulings and social phenomena affecting our business. Some of the many sources of uncertainty in the Company’s reserve estimates include changes in benefit levels, medical fee schedules, medical utilization guidelines, vocation rehabilitation and apportionment. Reversals of reforms by legislation or judicial action could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets On our balance sheet, we have $2.4 billion of goodwill subject to periodic testing for impairment. Our long-lived assets, primarily stores, also are subject to periodic testing for impairment. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow at reporting units could result in impairment charges on goodwill and/or long-lived assets. Our goodwill impairment analysis also includes a comparison of the aggregate estimated fair value of all reporting units to our total market capitalization. Therefore, a significant and sustained decline in our stock price could result in goodwill impairment charges. During times of financial market volatility, significant judgment is given to determine the underlying cause of the decline and whether stock price declines are short-term in nature or indicative of an event or change in circumstances. We have incurred significant impairment charges to earnings in the past for goodwill and long-lived assets. Information Technology Risks The Company has large, complex information technology systems that are important to business operations. The Company could encounter difficulties developing new systems or maintaining and upgrading existing systems. Such difficulties could lead to significant expenses or losses due to disruption in business operations. As a merchant who accepts debit and credit cards for payment, Safeway is subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCI DSS”), issued by the PCI Council. PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with 13 Table of Contents SAFEWAY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES regards to the Company’s security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. Despite the Company’s considerable efforts and technology to secure our computer network and payment cardholder data, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. This could lead to loss of sales or profits or cause the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages. Changes in Accounting Standards Financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. They are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC, which create and interpret accounting standards. For many aspects of our business, such as workers’ compensation, store closures, employee benefit plans, stock-based employee compensation, goodwill and income tax contingencies, these standards and their interpretations require management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. Additionally, the SEC has issued for comment a proposed roadmap regarding the potential use of International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) for the preparation of financial statements by U.S. registrants. Under the proposed roadmap, Safeway would be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS in fiscal 2014, including comparative information also prepared under IFRS for fiscal 2013 and 2012. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant effect on the Company’s results of operations. Energy and Fuel Safeway’s operations are dependent upon the availability of a significant amount of energy and fuel to manufacture, store and transport products. Energy and fuel costs have experienced volatility over time. To reduce the impact of volatile energy costs, the Company has entered into contracts to purchase electricity and natural gas at fixed prices to satisfy a portion of its energy needs. This is discussed further in Part II, Item 7 of this report under the caption “Energy Contracts.” Safeway also sells fuel. Significant increases in wholesale fuel costs could result in retail price increases and in lower gross profit on fuel sales. Additionally, consumer demand for fuel may decline if retail prices increase. Such volatility and the impact to our operations and financial results are difficult to predict. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 