Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents we file with the SEC are various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in the Report or otherwise adversely affect our business. · Economic downturns and reductions in government funding could have a negative impact on our business. Significant portions of our revenues are derived from contracts that are funded by federal, state and local government agencies. Our ability to obtain future public sector work at reasonable margins is highly dependent on the amount of work that is available to bid, which is largely a function of the level of government funding available. We also perform commercial and residential site development and other work for customers in the private sector. The availability of this private sector work can be significantly adversely affected by general economic downturns. · Our fixed price and fixed unit price contracts subject us to the risk of increased project cost. As more fully described under “Contract Provisions and Subcontracting” above, the profitability of our fixed price and fixed unit price contracts can be adversely affected by a number of factors that can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time of our original bid. · Accounting for our revenues and costs involves significant estimates. As further described in “Critical Accounting Estimates” under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation,” accounting for our contract related revenues and costs as well as other cost items requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and processes to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and the results of our operations. 7 Table of Contents · Weather can significantly impact our quarterly revenues and profitability. Our ability to perform work is significantly impacted by weather conditions such as precipitation and temperature. Changes in weather conditions can create significant variability in our quarterly revenues and profitability, particularly in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Additionally, delays and other weather impacts may increase a project’s cost and decrease its profitability. · Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. The single largest factor in our ability to profitably execute our work is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified people is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package and work environment. · We work in a highly competitive marketplace. As more fully described under “Competition” above, we have multiple competitors in all of the areas in which we work. During economic down cycles or times of lower government funding for public works projects, competition for the fewer available projects intensifies and this increased competition may result in a decrease in our ability to be competitive at acceptable margins. · An inability to secure and permit aggregate reserves could negatively impact our future operations and results. Tighter regulations for the protection of the environment and the finite nature of property containing suitable aggregate reserves are making it increasingly challenging and costly to secure and permit aggregate reserves. Although we have thus far been able to secure and permit reserves to support our business, it is likely to become increasingly difficult to do so and there is no assurance that we will be able to secure and permit reserves in the future. · We are subject to environmental and other regulation. As more fully described under “Government and Environmental Regulations” above, we are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment and workplace safety, the noncompliance of which can result in substantial penalties as well as civil and criminal liability. While compliance with these laws and regulations has not materially adversely affected our operations in the past, there can be no assurance that these requirements will not change and that compliance will not adversely affect our operations in the future. · Strikes or work stoppages could have a negative impact on our operations and results. We are party to collective bargaining agreements covering a substantial portion of our craft workforce. Although our results and operations have not been significantly impacted by strikes or work stoppages in the past, such labor actions could have a significant impact on our operations if they occur in the future. · Unavailability of insurance coverage could have a negative impact on our operations and results. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall risk management strategy and due to requirements to maintain specific coverage in our financing agreements and in most of our construction contracts. Although we have been able to obtain insurance coverage to meet our requirements in the past, there is no assurance that such insurance coverage will be available in the future. · An inability to obtain bonding would have a negative impact on our operations and results. As more fully described in “Insurance and Bonding” above, we generally are required to provide surety bonds securing our performance under the majority of our public and private sector contracts. Our inability to obtain surety bonds in the future would significantly impact our ability to obtain new contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. · Our joint venture contracts with project owners subject us to joint and several liability. If a joint venture partner fails to perform we could be liable for completion of the entire contract and, if the contract were unprofitable, this could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. · We use certain commodity products that are subject to significant price fluctuations. Diesel fuel, asphalt oil and other petroleum-based products are used to fuel and lube our equipment and operate our hot materials processing plants and are a significant part of the asphalt paving materials that are used in many of our construction projects and are sold to outside parties. Although we are partially protected by asphalt or fuel price escalation clauses in some of our contracts, not all contracts provide such protection. We also use cement, steel and other commodities in our construction projects that can be subject to significant price fluctuations. We have not been significantly adversely effected by price fluctuations in the past; however, there is no guarantee that we will not be in the future. · As a part of our growth strategy we expect to make future acquisitions and acquisitions involve many risks. These risks include difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, diversion of management’s attention, potential difficulties and increased costs associated with completion of any assumed construction projects, insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Acquisitions may also cause us to increase our liabilities, record goodwill or other non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential impairment charges and incur amortization expenses related to certain other intangible assets. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our business and operating results significantly. 8 Table of Contents · Failure of our subcontractors to perform as anticipated could have a negative impact on our results. As further described under “Contract Provisions and Subcontracting” above, we subcontract a portion of many of our contracts to specialty subcontractors and we are ultimately responsible for the successful completion of their work. Although we seek to require bonding or other forms of guarantees, we are not always successful in obtaining those bonds or guarantees from our higher risk subcontractors, and there is no guarantee that we will not incur a material loss due to subcontractor performance issues. · Our long-term debt and credit arrangements contain restrictive covenants and failure to meet these covenants could significantly harm our financial condition. Our long-term debt and credit arrangements and related restrictive covenants are more fully described in Note 10 of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” included in this report. In most cases, failure to meet the restrictive covenants would result in an immediate repayment liability for all amounts due and cancellation of open lines of credit. Additionally, failure to meet restrictive covenants related to our debt and credit agreements would trigger cross-default provisions that would cause us to also be in default of our surety agreements. Although we have not had difficulty meeting these covenants in the past, failure to do so in the future could have material adverse effects on our business and financial condition. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For these reasons, the reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Item 