Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or otherwise adversely affect our business. ● Unfavorable economic conditions have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our business. The recent recession and credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and is expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. In particular, declining tax revenues, budget deficits, financing constraints and competing prior ities have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, cutbacks in new infrastructure projects in the public sector and could have an adverse impact on collectibility of receivables from government agencies. In addition, levels of new commercial and residential construction projects have declined significantly due to oversupply of existing inventories of commercial and residential properties, declining property values and a restrictive financing environment. This reduction in demand for construction and construction materials in both the public and private sector has resulted in intensified competition in both sectors, which has had an adverse impact on both our revenues and profit margins and could impact growth opportunities. These factors have also had an adverse impact on the levels of activity and financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity of our real estate investment and development business. < /font> ● We work in a highly competitive marketplace. We have multiple competitors in all of the areas in which we work, and some of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater resources than we do. During economic down cycles or times of lower government funding for public works projects, competition for the fewer available public projects typically intensifies and this increased competition may result in a decrease in new awards at acceptable profit margins. In addition, downturns in residential and commercial construction activity increases the competition for available public sector work, further impacting our revenue, contract backlog and profit ma rgins. ● Accounting for our revenues and costs involves significant estimates. As further described in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” accounting for our contract related revenues and costs, as well as other expenses, requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and processes to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reasonably dependable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and could result in the reversal of previously recognized revenue and profit. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. ● Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Changes in general or local economic conditions and the resulting impact on the labor market may make it difficult to attract or retain qualified individuals in the geographic areas where we perform our work. If we are unable to provide competitive compensation packages, high-quality training programs or attractive work environments, our ability to profitably execute our work could be adversely impacted. ● Fixed price and fixed unit price contracts subject us to the risk of increased project cost. As more fully described in “Contract Provisions and Subcontracting” under “Item 1. Business,” the profitability of our fixed price and fixed unit price contracts can be adversely affected by a number of factors that can cause our actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time of our original bid. ● Many of our contracts have penalties for late completion. In some instances, including many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a certain date. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled we may be held responsible for costs resulting from the delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. To the extent these events occur, the total cost of the project could exceed our original estimate and we could experience reduced profits or a loss on that project. ● Weather can significantly affect our quarterly revenues and profitability. Our ability to perform work is significantly affected by weather conditions such as precipitation and temperature. Changes in weather conditions can cause delays and otherwise significantly affect our project costs. The impact of weather conditions can result in variability in our quarterly revenues and profitability, particularly in the first and fourth quarters of the year. 11 Table of Contents ● Design/build contracts subject us to the risk of design errors and omissions. Design/build is increasingly being used as a method of project delivery as it provides the owner with a single point of responsibility for both design and construction. We generally subcontract design responsibility to architectural and engineering firms. However, in the event of a design error or omission causing damages, there is risk that the subcontractor or their errors and omissions insurance would not be able to absorb the liability. In this case we may be responsible, resulting in a potentially material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. ● Failure of our subcontractors to perform as anticipated could have a negative impact on our results. As further described in “Contract Provisions and Subcontracting” under “Item 1. Business,” we subcontract portions of many of our contracts to specialty subcontractors, but we are ultimately responsible for the successful completion of their work. Although we seek to require bonding or other forms of guarantees, we are not always successful in obtaining those bonds or guarantees from our higher risk subcontractors. In this case we may be responsible for the failures on the part of our subcontractors to perform as anticipated, resulting in a potentially adverse imp act on our cash flows and liquidity. In addition, the total costs of a project could exceed our original estimates and we could experience reduced profits or a loss for that project, which could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. ● We may be unable to identify qualified Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (“DBE”) contractors to perform as subcontractors. Certain of our government agency projects contain minimum DBE participation clauses. If we subsequently fail to complete these projects with the minimum DBE participation, we may be held responsible for breach of contract damages which may include restrictions on our ability to bid on future projects as well as monetary damages. To the extent we are responsible for monetary damages, the total costs of the project could exceed our original estimates, we could experience reduced profits or a loss for that project and there could be an adverse impact to our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. ● Government contracts generally have strict regulatory requirements. Approximately 83.3% of our consolidated revenue in 2010 was derived from contracts funded by federal, state and local government agencies and authorities. Government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of socioeconomic requirements relating to their formation, administration, performance and accounting and often include express or implied certifications of compliance. Claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought for violations of regulations, requirements or statutes. We may also be subject to qui tam (“Whistle Blower”) litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Further, if we fail to comply with any of the regulations, requirements or statutes or if we have a substantial number of accumulated Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Mine Safety and Health Administration or other workplace safety violations, our existing government contracts could be terminated and we could be suspended from government contracting or subcontracting, including federally funded projects at the state level. Should one or more of these events occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. ● We are subject to environmental and other regulation. As more fully described in “Environmental Regulations” under “Item 1. Business,” we are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, workplace safety and a variety of socioeconomic requirements. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties, or termination or suspension of government contracts as well as civil and criminal liability. In addition, some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facil ities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. We occasionally evaluate various alternatives with respect to our facilities, including possible dispositions or closures. Investigations undertaken in connection with these activities may lead to discoveries of contamination that must be remediated, and closures of facilities may trigger compliance requirements that are not applicable to operating facilities. While compliance with these laws and regulations has not materially adversely affected our operations in the past, there can be no assurance that these requirements will not change and that compliance will not adversely affect our operations in the future. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that existing or future circumstances or developments with respect to contamination will not require us to make significant remediation or restoration expenditures. ● A change in tax laws or regulations of any federal or state jurisdiction in which we operate could increase our tax burden and otherwise adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We continue to assess the impact of various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that could result in a material increase to our U.S. federal and state taxes. We cannot predict whether any specific legislation will be enacted or the terms of any such legislation. However, if such prop osals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing regulations, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on us, including increasing our tax burden, increasing our cost of tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 12 Table of Contents ● Strikes or work stoppages could have a negative impact on our operations and results. We are party to collective bargaining agreements covering a portion of our craft workforce. Although strikes or work stoppages have not had a significant impact on our operations or results in the past, such labor actions could have a significant impact on our operations and results if they occur in the future. ● We may be required to contribute cash to meet our unfunded pension obligations in certain multi-employer plans. Two of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Granite Construction Company and Granite Construction Northeast, Inc. (formerly Granite Halmar Construction Company, Inc.) participate in various multi-employer pension plans on behalf of union employees. Union employee benefits generally are based on a fixed amount for each year of service. We are required to make contributions to the plans in amounts estab lished under collective bargaining agreements. Pension expense is recognized as contributions are made. Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, a contributor to a multi-employer plan is liable, upon termination or withdrawal from a plan, for its proportionate share of a plan’s unfunded vested liability. While we currently have no intention of withdrawing from a plan and unfunded pension obligations have not significantly affected our operations in the past, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to make material cash contributions to one or more of these plans to satisfy certain underfunded benefit obligations in the future. ● Unavailability of insurance coverage could have a negative effect on our operations and results. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall risk management strategy and pursuant to requirements to maintain specific coverage that are contained in our financing agreements and in most of our construction contracts. Although we have been able to obtain reasonably priced insurance coverage to meet our requirements in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future, and our inability to obtain such coverage could have an adverse impact on our ability to procure new work, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operatio ns, cash flows and liquidity. ● An inability to obtain bonding could have a negative impact on our operations and results. As more fully described in “Insurance and Bonding” under “Item 1. Business,” we generally are required to provide surety bonds securing our performance under the majority of our public and private sector contracts. Our inability to obtain reasonably priced surety bonds in the future could significantly affect our ability to be awarded new contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. ● Our joint venture contracts with project owners subject us to joint and several liability. As further described in “Joint Ventures; Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we participate in various construction joint venture partnerships in connection with complex construction projects. If our joint venture partner fails to perform under one of these contracts, we could be liable for completion of the entire contract. If the contract were unprofitable, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, resul ts of operations, cash flows and liquidity. ● Our contract backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and could be an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. We cannot guarantee that the revenues projected in our contract backlog will be realized or, if realized, will be profitable. Projects reflected in our contract backlog may be affected by project cancellations, scope adjustments, time extensions or other changes. Such changes may adversely affect the revenue and profit we ultimately realize on these projects. ● We use certain commodity products that are subject to significant price fluctuations. Diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based products are used to fuel and lubricate our equipment and fire our asphalt concrete processing plants. In addition, they constitute a significant part of the asphalt paving materials that are used in many of our construction projects and are sold to third parties. Although we are partially protected by asphalt or fuel price escalation clauses in some of our contracts, many contracts provide no such protection. We also use steel and other commodities in our construction projects that can be subject to significant price fluctuations. We pre-purchase commodities, enter into supply agreements or enter into financial contracts to secure pricing. We have not been significantly adversely affected by price fluctuations in the past; however, there is no guarantee that we will not be in the future. ● An inability to secure and permit aggregate reserves could negatively affect our future operations and results. Tighter regulations for the protection of the environment and the finite nature of property containing suitable aggregate reserves are making it increasingly challenging and costly to secure and permit aggregate reserves. Although we have thus far been able to secure and permit reserves to support our business, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be adversely affected by an increasingly difficult permitting process. 13 Table of Contents ● Granite Land Company is greatly affected by the strength of the real estate industry. Our real estate investment and development activities are subject to numerous factors beyond our control including local real estate market conditions; substantial existing and potential competition; general national, regional and local economic conditions; fluctuations in interest rates and mortgage availability and changes in demographic conditions. If our outlook for a project’s forecasted profitability deteriorates, we may find it necessary to curtail our development activities and evaluate our real estate assets for possible impairment. Our evaluation includes a variety of estimates and assumptio ns and future changes in these estimates and assumptions could affect future impairment analyses. If our real estate assets are determined to be impaired, the impairment would result in a write-down of the asset in the year of the impairment. See Notes 7 and 11 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information on impairment charges. Our decision in October 2010 to orderly divest of our real estate investment business resulted in changes to the business plans of certain of our real estate affiliates and the recognition of impairment charges in the fourth quarter of 2010. The business plans of our real estate affiliates include estimates of our ability to obtain certain development rights, our ability to obtain financing, the future condition of the real estate and financial markets, and the timing of cash flows. A continued decline in the residential and/or commercial real estate markets may decrease, or lengthen the timing of, expected cash flow of cert ain development projects to the point that we would be required to recognize additional valuation impairments in the future. ● Our real estate investments are subject to mortgage financing and may require additional funding. Granite Land Company’s real estate investments generally utilize short-term debt financing for their development activities. Such financing is subject to the terms of the applicable debt or credit agreement and generally is secured by mortgages on the applicable real property. GLC’s failure to comply with the covenants applicable to such financing or to pay principal, interest or other amounts when due thereunder would constitute an event of default under the applicable agreement and could have the effects described in the following risk factor relating to our debt and credit agreements. Due to the tightening of the credit markets, banks have required lower loan-to-value ratios often resulting in the need to pay a portion of the debt when short-term financing is renegotiated. If our real estate investment partners are unable to make their proportional share of a required repayment, GLC may elect to provide the additional funding which could materially affect our financial position, cash flows and liquidity. Also, if we determine we are the primary beneficiary, as defined by the applicable accounting guidance, we may be required to consolidate additional real estate investments in our financial statements. ● Failure to remain in compliance with covenants under our debt and credit agreements, service our indebtedness, or fund our other liquidity needs could adversely impact our business. The current recession and credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and is expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our debt and credit agreements and related restrictive covenants are more fully described in N ote 12 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.” Our failure to comply with any of these covenants, or to pay principal, interest or other amounts when due thereunder, would constitute an event of default under the applicable agreements. Under certain circumstances, the occurrence of an event of default under one of our debt or credit agreements (or the acceleration of the maturity of the indebtedness under one of our agreements) may constitute an event of default under one or more of our other debt or credit agreements. Default under our debt and credit agreements could result in (1) us no longer being entitled to borrow under the agreements, (2) termination of the agreements, (3) the requirement that any letters of credit under the agreements be cash collateralized, (4) acceleration of the maturity of outstanding indebtedness under the agreeme nts and (5) foreclosure on any collateral securing the obligations under the agreements. If we are unable to service our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could be forced to curtail our operations, reorganize our capital structure (including through bankruptcy proceedings) or liquidate some or all of our assets in a manner that could cause holders of our securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investment in us. ● As a part of our growth strategy we may make future acquisitions and acquisitions involve many risks. These risks include difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, diversion of management’s attention from ongoing operations, potential difficulties and increased costs associated with completion of any assumed construction projects, insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions and the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired companies. Acquisitions may also cause us to increase our liabilities, record goodwill or other non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to subsequent impairment testing and poten tial impairment charges, as well as amortization expenses related to certain other intangible assets. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The foregoing list is not all-inclusive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us. These developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For these reasons, the reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 