Risk Factors. The capital and credit markets can experience volatility and disruption. Such volatility and disruption can reach unprecedented levels, resulting in downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Statutory restrictions and restrictions by our regulators on dividends and other distributions from the Bank may adversely impact us by limiting the amount of distributions the Bancorp may receive. State laws and our regulators may restrict our ability to pay dividends. A substantial portion of Bancorp’s cash flow comes from dividends that the Bank pays to us. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends that the Bank can pay without regulatory approval. Also, the Bank is subject to a restriction on dividends it may pay to Bancorp under a memorandum of understanding with the DFI and the FDIC. Under the memorandum of understanding we entered into with the FRB SF, we agreed that we will not, without the FRB SF’s prior written approval, receive any dividends or any other form of payment or distribution representing a reduction of capital from the Bank. In our Three-Year Capital and Strategic Plan we submitted to the FRB SF, we indicated the Bank will not pay a dividend to us in 2010. In addition, we adopted a capital management and dividend policy as part of the Capital Plan in which we adopted a policy to refrain from paying dividends in excess of $.01 per share per quarter, except when covered by operating earnings beginning in 2011. 35 Table of Contents The Federal Reserve Board has previously issued Federal Reserve Supervision and Regulation Letter SR-09-4 that states that bank holding companies are expected to inform and consult with Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid. As a result of losses incurred in recent periods, we were expected to so inform and consult with the Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring or paying any dividends and we have agreed under the memorandum of understanding with the FRB SF that we will not, without the FRB SF’s prior written approval, declare or pay any dividends, make any payments on trust preferred securities, or make any other capital distributions. There can be no assurance that our regulators will approve the payment of such dividends. In addition, if the Bank were to liquidate, the Bank’s creditors would be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of the Bank to satisfy their claims against the Bank before Bancorp, as a holder of the equity interest in the Bank, would be entitled to receive any of the assets of the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us is limited by various regulations and statutes, including California law, and our ability to pay dividends on our outstanding stock is limited by various regulations and statutes, including Delaware law. The terms of our outstanding preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock and there can be no assurance of any future dividends on our common stock generally. In connection with the Purchase Agreement between us and the U.S. Treasury, we issued a warrant to purchase up to 1,846,374 shares of our common stock, or the Warrant, which provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 5, 2011, and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, (i) increase the cash dividend on our common stock above $.105 per share, the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008, or (ii) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than the Series B Preferred Stock. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series B Preferred Stock. The Federal Reserve Board has previously issued Federal Reserve Supervision and Regulation Letter SR-09-4 that states that bank holding companies are expected to inform and consult with Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid. As a result of losses incurred in recent periods, we were expected to so inform and consult with the Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring or paying any dividends and we have agreed under the memorandum of understanding with the FRB SF that we will not, without the FRB SF’s prior written approval, (i) receive any dividends or any other form of payment or distribution representing a reduction of capital from the Bank, or (ii) declare or pay any dividends, make any payments on trust preferred securities, or make any other capital distributions. The Bancorp and the Bank are also each subject to additional statutory and regulatory restrictions on paying dividends. The restrictions described above, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the Warrant, described below, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Commencing with the second quarter of 2009, our Board reduced our common stock dividend to $.08 per share, and commencing with the third quarter of 2009, our Board further reduced our dividend to $.01 per share. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. 36 Table of Contents Our outstanding preferred stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the Warrant as well as other potential issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared and the accretion on discount on our outstanding preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Our outstanding preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution, or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant is exercised. The 1,846,374 shares of common stock underlying the Warrant represent approximately 2.3% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2010 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant in total shares outstanding). Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. In addition, to the extent options to purchase common stock under our stock option plans are exercised, holders of our common stock will incur additional dilution. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. If we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, these sales could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. See “We may need to raise additional capital which may dilute the interests of holders of our common stock or otherwise have an adverse effect on their investment” below. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of common stock, which may negatively impact their investment. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the stockholders. The board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected. Our outstanding debt securities restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. In June 2003, Cathay Capital Trust I issued $20,619,000 of Floating Rate Trust Preferred Securities. In September 2003, Cathay Statutory Trust I issued $20,619,000 of Floating Rate Trust Preferred Securities. In December 2003, Cathay Capital Trust II issued $12,887,000 of Floating Rate Trust Preferred Securities. In March 2007, Cathay Capital Trust III issued $46,392,000 of Floating Rate Trust Preferred Securities. In May 2007, Cathay Capital Trust IV issued $20,619,000 of Floating Rate Trust Preferred Securities. These securities are collectively referred to herein as the “Trust Preferred Securities.” Payments to investors in respect of the Trust Preferred Securities are funded by distributions on certain series of securities issued by us, with similar terms to the relevant series of Trust Preferred Securities, which we refer to as the “Junior Subordinated Notes.” In addition, in September 2006, the Bank issued $50,000,000 in subordinated debt in a private placement, which we refer to as the “Bank Subordinated Debt.” If we are unable to pay interest in respect of the Junior Subordinated Notes (which will be used to make distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities), or if any other event of default occurs, then we will generally be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends or other distributions, or redeeming, purchasing or acquiring, any of our capital securities, including the common stock, during the next succeeding interest payment period applicable to any of the Junior Subordinated Notes. If the Bank is unable to pay interest in respect of the Bank Subordinated Debt, or if any other event of default has occurred and is continuing on the Bank Subordinated Debt, then the Bank will be prohibited from 37 Table of Contents declaring or paying dividends or other distributions, or redeeming, purchasing or acquiring, any of its capital stock, during the next succeeding interest payment applicable to the Bank Subordinated Debt. As a result, the Bank will be prohibited from making dividend payments to us, which, in turn could affect our ability to pay dividends on our capital securities, including the common stock. Moreover, any other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including the common stock. In the event that any other financing agreements in the future restrict our ability to pay dividends in cash on the common stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on the common stock unless we can refinance amounts outstanding under those agreements. We may need to raise additional capital which may dilute the interests of holders of our common stock or otherwise have an adverse effect on their investment. If economic conditions deteriorate, particularly in the California commercial real estate and residential real estate markets where our business is concentrated, we may need to raise more capital to support any additional provisions for loan losses and loan charge-offs. In addition, we may need to raise more capital to meet other regulatory requirements, if our losses are higher than expected and we believe that we may breach the target capital ratios in our Three-Year Capital and Strategic Plan, or to participate in FDIC-assisted transactions. There can be no assurances that we would succeed in raising any such additional capital, and any capital we obtain may dilute the interests of holders of our common stock, or otherwise have an adverse effect on their investment. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has not received written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued not less than 180 days before the end of its 2010 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 