Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth at the beginning of this Report. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and reduce the funds available to us for other purposes and our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt instruments could result in an event of default that could adversely affect our operating results. We have substantial debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we had aggregate outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.1 billion. This indebtedness could adversely affect us in the following ways: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired; • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations or other purposes; • some of the interest on debt is, and will continue to be, accrued at variable rates, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates, which may occur in future periods; • because we may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, our debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • our leverage may increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand adverse events in our business by limiting our financial alternatives; and • our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, and to plan for, or respond to, competition and changes in our business may be limited. Our existing debt agreements contain, and our future debt agreements may contain, financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur additional debt, including to finance future operations or other capital needs, and to engage in other activities that we may believe are in our long-term best interests, including to dispose of or acquire assets or other companies or to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness or prevent us from accessing availability under our credit facility. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our debt obligations and we may not be able to continue our operations as planned. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our existing debt service obligations. Our annual debt service obligations until November 8, 2011, when our revolving credit facility is scheduled to mature, will be primarily limited to interest and principal payments on multiple series of privately placed senior notes and our outstanding debt securities with an aggregate principal amount of $878 million, and on borrowings under our $1.1 billion credit facility. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or new acquisitions to repay amounts drawn under our credit facility when it matures in 2011, our private notes when they mature on various dates between 2008 and 2013 or our debt securities when they mature in 2016 and 2036. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we expect to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We may not be able to consummate any such transaction at all or on a timely basis or on terms, and for proceeds, that are acceptable to us. These transactions may not be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect, however, our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to timely refinance our obligations on acceptable terms, could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and could cause us to reduce or discontinue our planned operations. 14 Table of Contents The costs that we pay for metals fluctuate due to a number of factors beyond our control, and such fluctuations could adversely affect our operating results, particularly if we cannot pass on higher metal prices to our customers. We purchase large quantities of carbon, alloy and stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which we sell to a variety of end-users. The costs to us for these metals and the prices that we charge customers for our products may change depending on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions (both domestic and international), competition, production levels, customer demand levels, import duties and other trade restrictions, currency fluctuations and surcharges imposed by our suppliers. We attempt to pass cost increases on to our customers with higher selling prices but we may not always be able to do so. We maintain substantial inventories of metal to accommodate the short lead times and delivery requirements of our customers. Our customers typically purchase products from us pursuant to purchase orders and typically do not enter into long-term purchase agreements or arrangements with us. Accordingly, we purchase metal in quantities we believe to be appropriate to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based on information derived from customers, market conditions, historic usage and industry research. Commitments for metal purchases are generally at prevailing market prices in effect at the time orders are placed or at the time of shipment. During periods of rising prices for metal, we may be negatively impacted by delays between the time of increases in the cost of metals to us and increases in the prices that we charge for our products if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers immediately. In addition, when metal prices decline, customer demand for lower prices could result in lower sale prices for our products and, as we use existing inventory that we purchased at higher metal prices, lower margins. Consequently, during periods in which we use this existing inventory, the effects of changing metal prices could adversely affect our operating results. Our business could be adversely affected by economic downturns. Demand for our products is affected by a number of general economic factors. A decline in economic activity in the U.S. and other markets in which we operate could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. The prices of metals are subject to fluctuations in the supply and demand for metals worldwide and changes in the worldwide balance of supply and demand could negatively impact our revenues, gross profit and net income. Metal prices are volatile due to, among other things, fluctuations in foreign and domestic production capacity, raw material availability, metals consumption and foreign currency rates. For example, in the past few years, China has significantly increased both its consumption and production of metals and metal products. Initially, China’s large and growing demand for metals significantly affected the metals industry by diverting supply to China and contributing to the global increases in metal prices. With China’s increased production of metals, it has become a net exporter of certain metals. While this development can affect global pricing, it has yet to have a significant impact on U.S. pricing or the pricing for our products. Any future downturn in China’s general economic conditions or increases in its export of metals could cause a reduction in metal prices globally, which could adversely affect our revenues, gross profit and net income. Additionally, significant currency fluctuations in the United States or abroad could negatively impact our cost of metals and the pricing of our products. The decline in the dollar relative to foreign currencies in recent years has resulted in increased prices for metals and metal products in the United States as imported metals have become relatively more expensive. In addition, when prices for metal products in the U.S. are lower than in foreign markets, metals may be sold in the foreign markets rather than in the U.S., reducing the availability of metal products in the U.S. which may allow the domestic mills to increase their prices. If, in the future, the dollar increases in value relative to foreign currencies, the U.S. market may be more attractive to foreign producers, resulting in increased supply that could cause decreased metal prices and adversely affect our revenues, gross profit and net income. We operate in an industry that is subject to cyclical fluctuations and any downturn in general economic conditions or in our customers’ specific industries could negatively impact our revenues, gross profit and net income. The metals service center industry is cyclical and impacted by both market demand and metals supply. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States or other countries, or the public perception that these may occur, could decrease the demand for our products and adversely affect our pricing. For example, the general slowing of the economy in 2001, 2002 and 2003 adversely impacted our product sales and pricing. While we have been experiencing significantly improved pricing and healthy demand levels since 2004, this trend may not continue. Public perception leading into 2008 reflects negative economic expectations. Changing economic conditions could depress or delay demand for our products, which could adversely affect our revenues, gross profit and net income. 15 Table of Contents We sell many products to industries that are cyclical, such as the non-residential construction, semiconductor, energy and transportation industries, including aerospace. The demand for our products is directly related to, and quickly impacted by, demand for the finished goods manufactured by our customers in these industries, which may change as a result of changes in the general U.S. or worldwide economy, domestic exchange rates, energy prices or other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to accurately project the product needs of our customers over varying lead times or if there is a limited availability of products through allocation by the mills or otherwise, we may not have sufficient inventory to be able to provide products desired by our customers on a timely basis. In addition, if we are not able to diversify our customer base and/or increase sales of products to customers in other industries when one or more of the cyclical industries that we serve is experiencing a decline, our revenues, gross profit and net income may be adversely affected. We compete with a large number of companies in the metals service center industry, and, if we are unable to compete effectively, our revenues, gross profit and net income may decline. We compete with a large number of other general-line distributors and specialty distributors in the metals service center industry. Competition is based principally on price, inventory availability, timely delivery, customer service, quality and processing capabilities. Competition in the various markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have more established brand names in the local markets that we serve. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand adverse changes in conditions within our customers’ industries and may have greater operating and financial flexibility than we have. To compete for customer sales, we may lower prices or offer increased services at a higher cost, which could reduce our revenues, gross profit and net income. If we were to lose any of our primary suppliers or otherwise be unable to obtain sufficient amounts of necessary metals on a timely basis, we may not be able to meet our customers’ needs and may suffer reduced sales. We have few long-term contracts to purchase metals. Therefore, our primary suppliers of carbon steel, alloy steel, stainless steel, aluminum or other metals could curtail or discontinue their delivery of these metals to us in the quantities we need with little or no notice. Our ability to meet our customers’ needs and provide value-added inventory management services depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of high quality metal products from our suppliers. If our suppliers experience production problems, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, the lead times for receiving our supply of metal products could be extended and the cost of our inventory may increase. If, in the future, we are unable to obtain sufficient amounts of the necessary metals at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our traditional suppliers, we may not be able to obtain these metals from acceptable alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedules. Even if we do find acceptable alternative suppliers, the process of locating and securing these alternatives may be disruptive to our business, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to meet our customers’ needs and reduce our sales, gross profit and net income. In addition, if a significant domestic supply source is discontinued and we cannot find acceptable domestic alternatives, we may need to find a foreign source of supply. Dependence on foreign sources of supply could lead to longer lead times, increased price volatility, less favorable payment terms, increased exposure to foreign currency movements and certain tariffs and duties and require greater levels of working capital. Alternative sources of supply may not maintain the quality standards that are in place with our current suppliers that could impact our ability to provide the same quality of products to our customers that we have provided in the past, which could cause our customers to divest their business to our competitors or to file claims against us. There has been significant consolidation at the metal producer level both globally and within the U.S. This has reduced the number of suppliers available to us which could result in increased metals costs to us that we may not be able to pass on to our customers and may limit our ability to obtain the necessary metals to service our customers. If we do not successfully implement our acquisition growth strategy, our ability to grow our business could be impaired. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or successfully complete any acquisitions or integrate any other businesses into our operations. If we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates or are otherwise unable to complete acquisitions, we are unlikely to sustain our historical growth rates, and, if we cannot successfully integrate these businesses, we may incur increased or redundant expenses. Moreover, any additional indebtedness we incur to pay for these acquisitions could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. Historically, we have expanded both through acquisitions and internal growth. Since our initial public offering in September 1994, we have successfully purchased more than 40 businesses. From 1984 to September 1994, we acquired 20 businesses. We continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities and expect to continue to grow our business through acquisitions. Risks we may encounter in acquisitions include: • the acquired company may not further our business strategy, or we may pay more than it is worth; 16 Table of Contents • the acquired company may not perform as anticipated, which could result in an impairment charge or otherwise impact our results of operations; • we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to continue purchasing products from us; • we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner; • we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition or assume existing debt of an acquired company which, among other things, may result in a downgrade of our debt ratings; • we may have multiple and overlapping product lines that may be offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause our gross profit margins to decline; • our relationship with current and new employees, customers and suppliers could be impaired; • our due diligence process may fail to identify risks that could negatively impact our financial condition; • we may lose anticipated tax benefits or have additional legal or tax exposures if we have prematurely or improperly combined entities; • we may face contingencies related to product liability, intellectual property, financial disclosures, tax positions and accounting practices or internal controls; • the acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; • our management’s attention may be diverted by transition or integration issues; and • we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or a number of acquisitions. As a decentralized business, we depend on both senior management and our key operating employees; if we are unable to attract and retain these individuals, our ability to operate and grow our business may be adversely affected. Because of our decentralized operating style, we depend on the efforts of our senior management, including our chairman and chief executive officer, David H. Hannah, our president and chief operating officer, Gregg J. Mollins, and our executive vice president and chief financial officer, Karla Lewis, as well as our key operating employees. We may not be able to retain these individuals or attract and retain additional qualified personnel when needed. We do not have employment agreements with any of our officers or employees, so they may have less of an incentive to stay with us when presented with alternative employment opportunities. In addition, our senior management and key operating employees hold stock options that have vested and may also hold common stock in our employee stock ownership plan. These individuals may, therefore, be more likely to leave us if the shares of our common stock significantly appreciate in value. The loss of any key officer or employee will require remaining officers and employees to direct immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Our inability to retain members of our senior management or key operating employees or to find adequate replacements for any departing key officer or employee on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. We are subject to various environmental, employee safety and health and customs and export laws and regulations, which could subject us to significant liabilities and compliance expenditures. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning air emissions, wastewater discharges, underground storage tanks and solid and hazardous waste disposal at or from our facilities. Our operations are also subject to various employee safety and health laws and regulations, including those concerning occupational injury and illness, employee exposure to hazardous materials and employee complaints. We are also subject to customs and exporting laws and regulations for international shipment of our products. Environmental, employee safety and health and 17 Table of Contents customs and export laws and regulations are comprehensive, complex and frequently changing. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. We may be subject from time to time to administrative and/or judicial proceedings or investigations brought by private parties or governmental agencies with respect to environmental matters, employee safety and health issues or customs and exporting issues. Proceedings and investigations with respect to environmental matters, any employee safety and health issues or customs and exporting issues could result in substantial costs to us, divert our management’s attention and result in significant liabilities, fines or the suspension or interruption of our service center activities. Some of our current properties are located in industrial areas with histories of heavy industrial use. The location of these properties may require us to incur environmental expenditures and to establish accruals for environmental liabilities that arise from causes other than our operations. In addition, we are currently investigating and remediating contamination in connection with certain properties we have acquired. Our international presence has grown, so the risk of incurring liabilities or fines resulting from non-compliance with customs or export laws has increased. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or their enforcement, new laws and regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, could result in material environmental or export compliance or remedial liabilities and costs, constrain our operations or make such operations more costly. Our operating results have fluctuated, and are expected to continue fluctuating, depending on the season. Many of our customers are in seasonal businesses, including customers in the construction and related industries. In addition, our revenues in the months of July, November and December traditionally have been lower than in other months because of increased vacation days and holiday closures for various customers. Consequently, you should not rely on our results of operations during any particular quarter as an indication of our results for a full year or any other quarter. Ongoing tax audits may result in additional taxes. Reliance and our subsidiaries are undergoing various tax audits. These tax audits could result in additional taxes, plus interest and penalties being assessed against Reliance or any of our subsidiaries and the amounts assessed could be material. Damage to our computer infrastructure and software systems could harm our business. The unavailability of any of our primary information management systems for any significant period of time could have an adverse effect on our operations. In particular, our ability to deliver products to our customers when needed, collect our receivables and manage inventory levels successfully largely depends on the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Through information management systems, we provide inventory availability to our sales and operating personnel, improve customer service through better order and product reference data and monitor operating results. Difficulties associated with upgrades, installations of major software or hardware, and integration with new systems could lead to business interruptions that could harm our reputation, increase our operating costs and decrease our profitability. In addition, these systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage or interruption from power loss, computer system and network failures, loss of tele-communications services, operator negligence, physical and electronic loss of data, or security breaches and computer viruses. We have contracted with a third-party service provider that provides us with backup systems in the event that our information management systems are damaged. The backup facilities and other protective measures we take could prove to be inadequate. The value of your investment may be subject to sudden decreases due to the potential volatility of the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including variations in our quarterly results of operations. Other factors may include matters discussed in other risk factors and the following factors: • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors, or to estimates that we provide in our quarterly earnings release and conference call; • developments affecting our Company, our customers or our suppliers; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting our business; 18 Table of Contents • press releases, earnings releases or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in the metals service center industry; • inability to meet securities analysts’ and investors’ quarterly or annual estimates or targets of our performance; • a decline in our credit rating by the rating agencies; • the operating and stock performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; • sales of our common stock by large shareholders; • general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, the stock markets from time to time experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. In the past, some shareholders have brought securities class action lawsuits against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, regardless of whether our defense is ultimately successful, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Principal shareholders who own a significant number of shares may have interests that conflict with yours. Florence Neilan, our largest shareholder, through a revocable trust, owns 11% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. She or Thomas W. Gimbel, one of our directors who is trustee of her trust, may have the ability to significantly influence matters requiring shareholder approval. In deciding how to vote on such matters, these shareholders may be influenced by interests that conflict with yours. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that may adversely impact your rights as a holder of Reliance common stock. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and our bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock and the rights of our shareholders. We are authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value, with the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such stock to be determined by our board of directors, without a vote of the holders of common stock. Our board of directors could grant rights to holders of preferred stock to reduce the attractiveness of Reliance as a potential takeover target or make the removal of management more difficult. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws (1) impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at shareholder meetings and (2) establish a staggered or classified board of directors. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. In addition, our credit facility and the provisions of our senior private notes and debt securities contain limitations on our ability to enter into change of control transactions. Risks Related to our Debt Securities Because our senior debt securities and the related guarantees are not secured and are effectively subordinated to the rights of secured creditors, the debt securities and the related guarantees will be subject to the prior claims of any secured creditors, and if a default occurs, we may not have sufficient funds to fulfill our obligations under the debt securities or the related guarantees. Certain risks may be specifically applicable to the holders of our outstanding debt securities. These risks are set forth in that Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-139790) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The guarantees may be unenforceable due to fraudulent conveyance statutes and, accordingly, the holders of our debt securities may not have a claim against the subsidiary guarantors. 19 Table of Contents The obligations of each subsidiary guarantor under its guarantee will be limited as necessary to prevent that guarantee from constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under applicable law. However, a court in some jurisdictions could, under fraudulent conveyance laws, further subordinate or void the guarantee of any subsidiary guarantor if it found that such guarantee was incurred with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors, or such subsidiary guarantor did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for the guarantee and that the subsidiary guarantor was any of the following: insolvent or rendered insolvent because of the guarantee, engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital, or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts at maturity. If a court were to void the guarantee of a subsidiary guarantor as the result of a fraudulent conveyance, or hold it unenforceable for any other reason, holders of the notes would cease to have a claim against that subsidiary guarantor on its guarantee and would be creditors solely of Reliance and any other subsidiary guarantor whose guarantee is not voided or held to be unenforceable. The guarantees will be released under certain circumstances. The debt securities will be guaranteed by any subsidiary guarantor for so long as such subsidiary guarantor is a borrower or a guarantor of obligations under our credit agreement and our private notes. In the event that, for any reason, the obligations of any subsidiary guarantor terminate as a borrower or guarantor under our credit agreement and our private notes, that subsidiary guarantor will be deemed released from all of its obligations under the indenture and its guarantee of the notes will terminate. A subsidiary guarantor’s guarantee will also terminate and such subsidiary guarantor will be deemed released from all of its obligations under the indenture with respect to the notes of a series upon legal defeasance of such series or satisfaction and discharge of the indenture as it relates to such series. A subsidiary guarantor’s guarantee will also terminate and such subsidiary guarantor will be deemed released from all of its obligations under the indenture with respect to each series of notes in connection with any sale or other disposition by Reliance of all of the capital stock of that subsidiary guarantor (including by way of merger or consolidation) or other transaction such that after giving effect to such transaction such subsidiary guarantor is no longer a domestic subsidiary of Reliance. If the obligations of any subsidiary guarantor as a guarantor terminate or are released, the risks applicable to our subsidiaries that are not guarantors will also be applicable to such subsidiary guarantor. We will depend on the receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations under the notes. Claims of creditors of our subsidiaries may have priority over your claims with respect to the assets and earnings of our subsidiaries. We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries. We will therefore be dependent upon dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries in order to meet our obligations under the notes and to meet our other obligations. Generally, creditors of our subsidiaries will have claims to the assets and earnings of our subsidiaries that are superior to the claims of our creditors, except to the extent the claims of our creditors are guaranteed by our subsidiaries. All of our wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, which constitute the substantial majority of our subsidiaries, guarantee the notes. As of December 31, 2007, Reliance and the subsidiary guarantors accounted for approximately $3.7 billion, or 92%, of our total consolidated assets. Reliance and the subsidiary guarantors accounted for approximately $6.9 billion, or 95%, of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. As Reliance expands its international presence a smaller percentage of its consolidated assets is subject to the guarantee obligations. In the event of the bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of Reliance, the holders of our notes may not receive any amounts with respect to the notes until after the payment in full of the claims of creditors of our subsidiaries that are not subsidiary guarantors. We are permitted to incur more debt, which may intensify the risks associated with our current leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt. Subject to certain limitations, our existing credit facility and private notes permit us to incur additional debt. The indenture governing the notes does not limit the amount of additional debt that we may incur. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt, will increase. The provisions in the indenture that governs the notes relating to change of control transactions will not necessarily protect the holders of our notes in the event of a highly leveraged transaction. The provisions contained in the indenture will not necessarily afford the holders of our notes protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction that may adversely affect them, including a reorganization, restructuring, merger or other similar transaction involving Reliance. These transactions may not involve a change in voting power or beneficial ownership or, even if they do, may not involve a change of the magnitude required under the definition of change of control repurchase event in the 20 Table of Contents indenture to trigger these provisions, notably, that the transactions are accompanied or followed within 60 days by a downgrade in the rating of the notes. Except in the event of a change of control, the indenture does not contain provisions that permit the holders of the notes to require us to repurchase the notes in the event of a takeover, recapitalization or similar transaction. Reliance may not be able to repurchase all of the notes upon a change of control repurchase event. We will be required to offer to repurchase certain outstanding senior notes upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event. We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes in cash at such time or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to repurchase the notes for cash may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. Under the terms of our new credit facility, we are prohibited from repurchasing the notes if we are in default under such credit facility. Ratings of our notes may change after issuance and affect the market price and marketability of the notes. The notes are rated by Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and Standard & Poor’s. Such ratings are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in the notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. An explanation of the significance of such rating may be obtained from such rating agency. There is no assurance that such credit ratings will be issued or remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. It is also possible that such ratings may be lowered in connection with future events, such as future acquisitions. Holders of our notes have no recourse against us or any other parties in the event of a change in or suspension or withdrawal of such ratings. Any lowering, suspension or withdrawal of such ratings may have an adverse effect on the market price or marketability of the notes. In addition, any decline in the ratings of the notes may make it more difficult for us to raise capital on acceptable terms. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 