risk factors associated with some autoimmune diseases. We have continued to evaluate these TLR7 and TLR9 antagonists in various preclinical studies. In April 2010, we presented preclinical data which showed that treatment with a TLR7/TLR9 antagonist compound reduced symptoms of atherosclerosis in a mouse model. In November 2010, we presented results from studies demonstrating dose-dependent reduction of cardiovascular disease markers by a TLR7/TLR9 antagonist in hyperlipidemic mice. In November 2010, we also presented preclinical data showing that once-weekly doses of a TLR7/TLR9 antagonist, IMO-3100, in non-human primates led to sustained suppression of TLR7- and TLR9-mediated immune responses over four weeks of treatment and presented results from a preclinical study in which blood cells from healthy females produce higher levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to TLR7 stimulation than do blood cells from healthy male subjects. In February 2011, we presented additional data from studies in mice that are genetically predisposed to develop autoimmune disease similar to the human autoimmune disease lupus, in which treatment with IMO-3100 suppressed several key disease progression parameters. In August 2008, we selected IMO-3100 as a lead antagonist drug candidate and initiated preclinical development studies. In November 2009, we submitted to the FDA an IND application for the clinical evaluation of IMO-3100 in autoimmune diseases. In January 2010, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-3100 in healthy subjects. In this single-dose, dose escalation Phase 1 trial in 36 healthy subjects, IMO-3100 was administered by subcutaneous injection at dose levels of 0.04, 0.08, 0.16, 0.32, and 0.64 mg/kg. At each dose level, six subjects received IMO-3100. An additional six subjects received placebo treatment. The primary objective of the trial was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of IMO-3100. Secondary objectives were to characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of IMO-3100 and to assess the pharmacodynamic mechanism of action of IMO-3100. The pharmacodynamic mechanism of action is how IMO-3100 engages the immune system in the targeted manner, which we assessed through measurement of the inhibition of TLR7 and TLR9-mediated cytokine induction in peripheral blood mononuculear cells, or PBMCs. The trial was conducted at a single U.S. site. In October 2010 we announced results from the single-dose Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-3100. IMO-3100 was well tolerated at all dose levels in the trial. There were no serious adverse events, and mild injection site reactions were the most frequent adverse event. The intended target engagement of TLR7 and TLR9 was observed through inhibition of TLR7 and TLR9-mediated cytokine induction in PBMCs of study subjects after IMO-3100 treatment at dosages of 0.32 and 0.64 mg/kg. Induction of certain cytokines remained suppressed for up to five days in IMO-3100 treated subjects. There was no consistent effect on cytokine induction in the PBMCs of placebo-treated subjects. We have also conducted a four-week multiple-dose Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-3100 in 24 healthy subjects that we initiated in July 2010 and completed in the third quarter of 2010. In this trial, IMO-3100 was administered in two dosing regimens for four weeks, with eight subjects per regimen. Eight additional subjects received placebo injections. No treatment-related discontinuations or serious adverse events were reported. We intend to present results of the multiple-dose Phase 1 clinical trial at a scientific meeting in the second quarter of 2011. 7 Table of Contents We intend for the next step in the clinical development of IMO-3100 to be a Phase 2 clinical trial in a selected autoimmune disease indication. We are currently conducting nonclinical studies of IMO-3100, in light of some reversible immune responses that were observed in the 13-week nonclinical toxicology studies we had conducted to support the initiation of Phase 2 clinical trials and that were inconsistent with observations in our other nonclinical studies of IMO-3100. We expect to complete these nonclinical studies during the first half of 2011 and intend to submit to the FDA a protocol for a Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-3100 in a selected autoimmune disease indication during the third quarter of 2011. We have formed an Autoimmune Disease Scientific Advisory Board with leading researchers in the field of autoimmune diseases to assist us with determining a clinical development strategy for our antagonist candidates. Cancer The immune system is capable of recognizing cancer cells as abnormal cells, leading to an immune response. However, the body’s immune response to cancer cells may be weak or absent. We believe that agonists of TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 can enhance the body’s immune response to cancer cells because TLRs are involved in stimulation of both innate and adaptive immunity. We have licensed our rights to the use of TLR9 agonists for the treatment of cancer under our collaboration with Merck KGaA, and are exploring on our own the use of TLR7 and TLR8 agonists for the treatment of cancer. We have created synthetic SIMRA compounds that mimic viral RNA and induce immune responses by functioning as agonists of TLR7 and TLR8. In June 2010, we announced publication of studies that showed induction of immune responses consistent with the targeted TLR7/TLR8 mechanism of action and antitumor activity in preclinical models of cancer. In December 2010, we presented data from cell-based assays and from mouse models of lymphoma that showed our lead dual agonist of TLR7 and TLR8, when administered in combination with approved cancer therapy agents, resulted in improved antitumor activity, increased survival compared to single-agent treatments, and evidence of immune activation consistent with the TLR7/TLR8 mechanism of action. In conjunction with the December 2010 data presentation, we announced selection of IMO-4200 as our lead dual TLR7/TLR8 agonist drug candidate. We intend to outline a development program strategy and timeline for IMO-4200 in the treatment of hematological malignancies during the first half of 2011. Respiratory Diseases Asthma and allergy conditions are characterized by an imbalance of the immune system. Currently approved agents for the treatment of asthma and allergy conditions, including steroids and antibodies, are generally designed to suppress symptoms of asthmatic or allergic response. Our TLR9 agonists, by comparison, are designed to induce immune responses that could be useful in restoring immune system balance. In preclinical studies conducted by us and our collaborators, our TLR9 agonists caused improvements in multiple indices of allergic conditions. For example, in mouse models of allergy, our TLR9 agonists restored the balance of immunological activity, produced a higher ratio of specific versus non-specific antibodies, reduced the number of pulmonary immune cells that produce allergic inflammation, and improved lung function. In May 2005, we entered into a research collaboration and option agreement and a separate license, development, and commercialization agreement with Novartis to discover, optimize, develop and commercialize TLR9 agonists as treatments for asthma and allergies. In September 2008, Novartis initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of QAX935, a novel agonist of TLR9. Novartis terminated the research collaboration and option agreement, effective as of February 2010. This termination canceled Novartis’ option to implement the license, development and commercialization agreement. In connection with the termination, we regained rights to QAX935, which we refer to as IMO-2134, without any financial obligations to Novartis, and are no longer subject to restrictions under the Novartis agreements on our right to develop TLR-targeted compounds, including TLR antagonist and TLR antisense compounds, for respiratory diseases. Sponsorship of the clinical trial initiated by Novartis and data from the clinical trial have not been transferred to us. We currently are evaluating the next steps in developing IMO-2134 in asthma and allergy. 8 Table of Contents Vaccine Adjuvants — TLR3 Agonists We are creating a new class of double-stranded RNA-based compounds that act as agonists of TLR3 and are evaluating their potential use as vaccine adjuvants. Vaccines are composed of one or more antigens and one or more adjuvants in an appropriate formulation. The function of the adjuvants is to enhance immune recognition of the antigens and increase the ability of the immune system to make antigen-specific antibodies. In preclinical models, our TLR3 agonists stimulated immune responses, including promotion of increased production of antigen-specific antibodies and cytotoxic T cells compared to responses induced by the antigen alone in preclinical vaccination studies. Collaborative Alliances Cancer — Merck KGaA In December 2007, we entered into an exclusive, worldwide license agreement with Merck KGaA to research, develop, and commercialize products containing our TLR9 agonists, including IMO-2055, for the treatment of cancer, excluding cancer vaccines. Merck KGaA refers to IMO-2055 as EMD 1201081. Prior to entering into our agreement with Merck KGaA, we had commenced clinical trials of IMO-2055, including a Phase 1b clinical trial of IMO-2055 in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. In January 2009, we initiated a Phase 1b clinical trial of IMO-2055 in patients with colorectal cancer. In April 2009, we initiated on behalf of Merck KGaA a Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-2055 in healthy subjects. Merck KGaA agreed to reimburse us for costs associated with trials that we initiated and conducted, including costs associated with the Phase 1b clinical trials of IMO-2055 in patients with non-small cell lung cancer and in patients with colorectal cancer and the Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-2055 in healthy subjects, that were incurred after February 4, 2008, which is the date our agreement with Merck KGaA became effective. In September 2009, Merck KGaA assumed sponsorship of our ongoing Phase 1b clinical trials of IMO-2055. Merck KGaA is now the sponsor of all clinical trials of IMO-2055 for the treatment of cancer and has assumed responsibility for all further clinical development of IMO-2055 in the treatment of cancer, excluding vaccines. Ongoing Clinical Trials of IMO-2055 (EMD 1201081) Phase 2 Clinical Trial — Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck, Second — line. In December 2009, Merck KGaA initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-2055 in patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck who had received a prior course of cancer therapy and therefore treatment in the Phase 2 clinical trial is referred to as second-line. Under the terms of our agreement with Merck KGaA, we received a milestone payment of €3.0 million (approximately $4.1 million) from Merck KGaA in the first quarter of 2010 related to the initiation of this Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-2055. Phase 1b Clinical Trial — Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck, First-line. In August 2010, we announced that Merck KGaA initiated a Phase 1b clinical trial of IMO-2055 in treatment of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck who had not received any prior cancer therapy and therefore treatment in the trial is referred to as first-line. Under the terms of our agreement with Merck KGaA, we received a milestone payment of €3.0 million (approximately $4.1 million) from Merck KGaA in the third quarter of 2010 related to the initiation of this Phase 1b clinical trial of IMO-2055. Phase 1b Clinical Trial — Non-small Cell Lung Cancer . In December 2007, we initiated a Phase 1b clinical trial of IMO-2055 in patients with non-small cell lung cancer whose cancer had progressed during a prior course of standard therapy. In September 2009, we reported preliminary data from the dose-escalation portion of the trial. As of September 2009, Merck KGaA assumed sponsorship of this trial. Phase 1b Clinical Trial — Colorectal Cancer . In January 2009, we initiated a Phase 1b clinical trial of IMO-2055 in patients with colorectal cancer whose cancer had progressed during a prior course of standard therapy. As of September 2009, Merck KGaA assumed sponsorship of this trial. Under the terms of our agreement with Merck KGaA, we received a milestone payment of €3.0 million (approximately $4.0 million) from Merck KGaA in the second quarter, 2009 related to the initiation of this Phase 1b clinical trial of IMO-2055. 9 Table of Contents Prior Clinical Trials of IMO-2055 (EMD 1201081) In April 2009, we initiated on behalf of Merck KGaA a Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-2055 monotherapy in healthy subjects. As of March 2010, Merck KGaA assumed sponsorship of this Phase 1 trial. Prior to entering our collaboration with Merck KGaA, we conducted three Phase 1 clinical trials and one Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-2055. The Phase 2 clinical trial was a Phase 2 Stage A clinical trial of IMO-2055 monotherapy in patients with metastatic or recurrent clear cell renal cancer. Vaccine Adjuvants — Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. Vaccines are composed of one or more antigens and one or more adjuvants in an appropriate formulation. The function of the adjuvants is to enhance immune recognition of the antigens and increase the ability of the immune system to make antigen-specific antibodies. In preclinical animal models, our TLR7, 8 and 9 agonists have shown adjuvant activity when combined with various types of antigens. Preclinical studies that we conducted with our TLR9 agonists and various antigens have shown improvements in several measures of antigen recognition, such as achievement of higher antibody levels, higher ratios of specific to nonspecific antibodies, and a reduction in the number of doses required to achieve effective antibody levels. We believe that agonists of TLRs 7, 8, and 9 have the potential to be used as adjuvants in vaccines. In December 2006, we entered into a research collaboration with Merck and granted Merck an exclusive license to develop and commercialize our TLR7, 8, and 9 agonists by incorporating them in therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines being developed by Merck for cancer, infectious diseases, and Alzheimer’s disease. The original term of the research collaboration was two years and Merck extended the research collaboration for two additional years to December 2010. Merck and Idera scientists published a paper in March 2010 on the synthesis and immunological activity of novel TLR9 agonists. In June 2010, Merck scientists presented results of preclinical studies showing the enhancement of immune responses and adjuvant activity of various TLR9 agonists alone and in combination with alum. Collaborative Alliances An important part of our business strategy is to enter into research and development collaborations, licensing agreements, and other strategic alliances with biotechnology and pharmaceutical corporations that bring expertise and resources to the potential development and commercialization of drugs based on our technology. We are currently a party to collaborations with Merck KGaA and Merck. Merck KGaA In December 2007, we entered into an exclusive, worldwide license agreement with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, to research, develop and commercialize products containing our TLR9 agonists for the treatment of cancer, excluding cancer vaccines. Under the terms of the agreement, we granted Merck KGaA worldwide exclusive rights to our lead TLR9 agonists, IMO-2055 and IMO-2125, and to a specified number of novel follow-on TLR9 agonists to be identified by Merck KGaA and us under a research collaboration that ended in June 2010, for use in the treatment, cure and delay of the onset or progression of cancer in humans. Under the terms of the agreement: • In February 2008, Merck KGaA paid us a $40.0 million upfront license fee in Euros of which we received $39.7 million due to foreign currency exchange rates; • Merck KGaA agreed to reimburse future development costs for certain of our on-going IMO-2055 clinical trials, which we continued to conduct on behalf of Merck KGaA until September 2009; • Merck KGaA agreed to pay us up to EUR 264 million in development, regulatory approval, and commercial success milestone payments if products containing our TLR9 agonist compounds are successfully developed and marketed for treatment, cure and/or delay of the onset or progression of cancer in humans; and 10 Table of Contents • Merck KGaA agreed to pay mid single-digit to low double-digit royalties on net sales of products containing our TLR9 agonists that are marketed. We have agreed that neither we nor our affiliates will, either directly or through a third party: • Develop or commercialize any TLR9 agonist for use in treating, curing, and delaying the onset or progression of cancer in humans; and • Develop or commercialize IMO-2055 for use outside treating, curing, and delaying the onset or progression of cancer in humans, except as part of vaccine products in the fields of oncology, infectious diseases and Alzheimer’s disease, which we are pursuing under our collaboration with Merck. These restrictions will not limit our ability to research, develop and commercialize vaccine products containing IMO-2055 in the fields of oncology, infectious diseases, and Alzheimer’s disease, or to research, develop and commercialize IMO-2125 outside the licensed field as a combination therapy or as a vaccine product. Under the agreement, Merck KGaA is obligated to pay us royalties, on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, until the later of the expiration of the patent rights licensed to Merck KGaA and the 10th anniversary of the product’s first commercial sale in such country. If the patent rights expire in a particular country before the 10th anniversary of the product’s first commercial sale in such country, Merck KGaA’s obligation to pay us royalties will continue at a reduced royalty rate until such anniversary. In addition, the applicable product royalties may be reduced if Merck KGaA is required to pay royalties to third parties for licenses to intellectual property rights. Merck KGaA’s royalty and milestone obligations may also be reduced if Merck KGaA terminates the agreement based on specified uncured material breaches by us. The agreement may be terminated by either party based upon material uncured breaches by the other party or by Merck KGaA at any time after providing Idera with advance notice of termination. In February 2009, we amended the license agreement with Merck KGaA so that we could initiate and conduct on behalf of Merck KGaA additional clinical trials of IMO-2055, until such time as Merck KGaA had filed an IND application with the FDA for IMO-2055 and assumed sponsorship of these trials. Under the amendment, Merck KGaA agreed to reimburse us for costs associated with any additional trials that we initiated and conducted. As of March 2010, Merck KGaA assumed sponsorship of all clinical trials of IMO-2055 for the treatment of cancer and has taken responsibility for all further clinical development of IMO-2055 in the treatment of cancer, excluding vaccines. Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. (Merck) In December 2006, we entered into an exclusive license and research collaboration agreement with Merck to research, develop and commercialize vaccine products containing our TLR7, 8, and 9 agonists in the fields of cancer, infectious diseases and Alzheimer’s disease. Under the terms of the agreement, we granted Merck worldwide exclusive rights to a number of our TLR7, 8, and 9 agonists for use in combination with Merck’s therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines under development in the fields of cancer, infectious diseases, and Alzheimer’s disease. There is no limit to the number of vaccines to which Merck can apply our agonists within these fields. We also agreed with Merck to engage in a two-year research collaboration to generate novel agonists targeting TLR7 and TLR8 and incorporating both Merck and Idera chemistry for use in vaccines in the defined fields. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck extended the research collaboration for two additional years to December 2010. Under the terms of the agreement: • Merck paid us a $20.0 million upfront license fee; • Merck purchased $10.0 million of our common stock at $5.50 per share; • Merck agreed to fund the research and development collaboration through its term; 11 Table of Contents • Merck agreed to pay us milestone payments as follows: • up to $165.0 million if vaccines containing our TLR9 agonist compounds are successfully developed and marketed in each of the oncology, infectious disease and Alzheimer’s disease fields; • up to $260.0 million if vaccines containing our TLR9 agonist compounds are successfully developed and marketed for follow-on indications in the oncology field and if vaccines containing our TLR7 or TLR8 agonists are successfully developed and marketed in each of the oncology, infectious disease, and Alzheimer’s disease fields; and • if Merck develops and commercializes additional vaccines using our agonists, we would be entitled to receive additional milestone payments; and • Merck agreed to pay us mid to upper single-digit royalties on net product sales of vaccines using our TLR agonist technology that are developed and marketed, with the royalty rates being dependent on disease indication and the TLR agonist employed. Under the agreement, Merck is obligated to pay us royalties, on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, until the later of the expiration of the patent rights licensed to Merck and the expiration of regulatory-based exclusivity for the vaccine product. If the patent rights and regulatory-based exclusivity expire in a particular country before the 10th anniversary of the product’s first commercial sale in such country, Merck’s obligation to pay us royalties will continue at a reduced royalty rate until such anniversary, except that Merck’s royalty obligation will terminate upon the achievement of a specified market share in such country by a competing vaccine containing an agonist targeting the same toll-like receptor as that targeted by the agonist in the Merck vaccine. In addition, the applicable royalties may be reduced if Merck is required to pay royalties to third parties for licenses to intellectual property rights, which royalties exceed a specified threshold. Merck’s royalty and milestone obligations may also be reduced if Merck terminates the agreement based on specified uncured material breaches by us. Merck may terminate the collaborative alliance without cause upon 90 days written notice to us. Either party may terminate the collaborative alliance upon the other party’s filing or institution of bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation or receivership proceedings, or for a material breach if such breach is not cured within 60 days after delivery of written notice. Gene Silencing Oligonucleotides (GSO) Through our expertise in nucleic acid chemistry, we have designed and created a new class of molecules to inhibit gene expression. These gene silencing oligonucleotides, which we refer to as GSOs, are nucleic acid-based and represent a novel approach to selectively silence gene expression. We have identified GSOs that are targeted to TLRs, TLR signaling molecules, and other mammalian proteins. We have studied our GSO compounds in multiple cell culture and animal models and observed potent gene silencing activity. We are actively engaged in preclinical research with our GSOs designed to explore their potential as research reagents and therapeutic agents. Antisense Technology We have been a pioneer in the development of antisense technology. We now are using our antisense expertise and technology to validate potential targets in the TLR signaling pathway. Antisense compounds may assist us in identifying drug candidates. We have identified antisense compounds targeted to human TLRs 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 9 and to the TLR-associated signaling protein MyD88. We are studying these antisense compounds for potential applications in multiple disease indications. We also believe that our antisense technology may be useful to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are seeking to develop drug candidates that down-regulate gene targets discovered by, or proprietary to, such companies. Antisense drug candidates are designed to bind to RNA targets through hybridization, and decrease production of the specific protein encoded by the target RNA. We believe that drugs based on antisense technology may be more effective and cause fewer side effects than conventional drugs in applications with well-defined RNA targets because antisense drugs are designed to intervene in a highly specific fashion in the production of proteins, rather than after the proteins are made. 12 Table of Contents We have licensed specified rights related to antisense technology to certain parties. We also have in-licensed certain rights related to antisense technology. Out-licenses. In 2001 we entered into an agreement with Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., under which we granted Isis a license, with the right to sublicense, to our antisense chemistry and delivery patents and patent applications; and we retained the right to use these patents and applications in our own drug discovery and development efforts and in collaborations with third parties. Isis paid us $15.0 million in cash and issued 857,143 shares of its common stock having an aggregate fair market value on the dates on which title to the shares was received of $17.3 million and is required to pay us a mid double-digit percentage of specified sublicense income it receives from some types of sublicenses of our patents and patent applications. To date, we have received $0.3 million in sublicense income from Isis. Also under the agreement, we licensed from Isis specified antisense patents and patent applications, principally Isis’ suite of RNase H patents and patent applications. We also paid to Isis $0.7 million and issued 1,005,499 shares of common stock having a fair market value of approximately $1.2 million on the date of issuance for this license and are obligated to pay Isis an annual maintenance fee and low single-digit royalties on net sales of antisense products sold that are covered by Isis’s patent rights. We have the right to use these patents and patent applications in our drug discovery and development efforts and in some types of third-party collaborations. To date, we have only paid Isis annual maintenance fees and have not paid any royalties. The agreement may be terminated for an uncured material breach by either party. The licenses granted under the Isis agreement terminate upon the last to expire of the patents and patent applications licensed under the agreement. We may terminate at any time the sublicense by Isis to us of the patents and patent applications. In addition, we are party to two other license agreements involving the license of our antisense patents and patent applications for antisense chemistry and delivery and for specific gene targets, under which we typically are entitled to receive license fees, sublicensing income, research payments, payments upon achievement of developmental milestones, and royalties on product sales. In-licenses. Our principal in-license related to antisense technology is with University of Massachusetts Medical Center for antisense chemistry and for certain gene targets. Under the terms of our license agreement with University of Massachusetts Medical Center, we are the worldwide, exclusive licensee under a number of U.S. issued patents and various patent applications owned by University of Massachusetts Medical Center relating to the chemistry of antisense oligonucleotides and their use. This license expires upon the expiration of the last to expire of the patents covered by the license. Under the agreement, we have agreed to pay a low single-digit royalty on net product sales, a low double-digit percentage of any sublicense license income we receive, and a small annual license maintenance fee. Since 1999, we have paid approximately $1.7 million to University of Massachusetts Medical Center under this license agreement. Additionally, we have entered into six other royalty-bearing license agreements under which we have acquired rights to antisense related patents, patent applications, and technology. Under all of these in-licenses, we are obligated to pay low to mid single-digit royalties on our net sales of products or processes covered by a valid claim of a licensed patent or patent application. Under some of these in-licenses, we are required to pay a low double-digit percentage of any sublicense income. All of our in-licenses impose various commercialization, sublicensing, insurance, and other obligations on us, and our failure to comply with these requirements could result in termination of the in-licenses. Academic and Research Collaborations We have entered into research collaborations with scientists at leading academic research institutions. These research collaborations allow us to augment our internal research capabilities and obtain access to specialized knowledge and expertise. In general, our research collaborations may require us to supply compounds and pay various amounts to support the research. Under these research agreements, if a collaborator, solely or jointly with us, creates any invention, we may own exclusively such invention, have an automatic paid-up, royalty-free non-exclusive license or have an option to negotiate an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license to such invention. Inventions developed solely by our scientists in connection with research collaborations are owned exclusively by us. These collaborative agreements are non-exclusive and may be terminated with limited notice. 13 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we spent approximately $24.2 million, $18.6 million, and $16.2 million on research and development activities. In 2009 and 2008, Merck KGaA sponsored approximately $3.1 million and $1.4 million of our research and development activities. In 2009 and 2008, Merck sponsored approximately $0.8 million and $1.5 million of our research and development activities. Sponsored research and development activities were diminutive in 2010. Patents, Proprietary Rights and Trade Secrets Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our drug candidates, technology and know-how, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We use a variety of methods to seek to protect our proprietary position, including filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. We have devoted and continue to devote a substantial amount of our resources into establishing intellectual property protection for: • Novel chemical entities that function as agonists of TLR3, 7, 8 or 9; • Novel chemical entities that function as antagonists of TLR7, 8 or 9; and • Use of our novel chemical entities and chemical modifications to treat and prevent a variety of diseases. As of March 1, 2011, we owned 73 U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications and 230 patents and patent applications throughout the rest of the world for our TLR-targeted immune modulation technologies. These patents and patent applications include novel chemical compositions of matter and methods of use for our immune modulatory compounds, including IMO-2055, IMO-2125, IMO-2134, IMO 3100 and IMO-4200. To date, all of our intellectual property covering immune modulatory compositions and methods of their use is based on discoveries made solely by us. These patents expire at various dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. As of March 1, 2011, we also own two U.S. patent applications and one corresponding worldwide patent application for our GSO compounds and methods of their use. Patents issuing from these applications, if any, would expire at their earliest in 2030. In addition to our TLR-targeted patent portfolio, we are the owner or hold licenses of patents and patent applications related to antisense technology. As of March 1, 2011, our antisense patent portfolio included 101 U.S. patents and patent applications and 124 patents and patent applications throughout the rest of the world. These antisense patents and patent applications include novel compositions of matter, the use of these compositions for various genes, sequences and therapeutic targets, and oral and other routes of administration. Some of the patents and patent applications in our antisense portfolio were in-licensed. These in-licensed patents expire at various dates ranging from 2014 to 2022. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in each of our issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. Litigation may be necessary to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others or to determine the appropriate term for an issued patent. In addition, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, may declare interference proceedings to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or reexamination or reissue proceedings to determine if the scope of a patent should be narrowed. Litigation or any of these other proceedings could result in substantial costs to and diversion of effort by us, and 14 Table of Contents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These efforts by us may not be successful. In January 2010, we filed a lawsuit against the USPTO in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. In light of recent decisions in that court and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, we believe the USPTO assigned a shorter patent term to some of our U.S. patents than was allowed by law. We filed the lawsuit to obtain a determination of the appropriate patent term for these patents. We may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology. Although trade secrets are difficult to protect, wherever possible, we use confidential disclosure agreements to protect the proprietary nature of our technology. We regularly implement confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors, and other contractors and collaborators. However, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets and/or proprietary information will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may also arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Government Regulation The testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, import, export, and marketing, among other things, of drugs are extensively regulated by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. In the U.S., the FDA regulates pharmaceutical products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and other laws and regulations. Biological products are subject to regulation by the FDA under the FDCA, the Public Health Service Act, and related regulations. Both before and after approval for marketing is obtained, violations of regulatory requirements may result in various adverse consequences, including the FDA’s delay in approving or refusal to approve pending applications or supplements, withdrawal of approval, suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, operating restrictions, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, injunctions, fines, and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The steps required before a new pharmaceutical or biological product may be approved for marketing in the U.S. generally include: • nonclinical laboratory tests and animal safety tests under the FDA’s good laboratory practices, or GLP, regulations; • the submission to the FDA of an IND application for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin within the United States; • adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational drug product for each indication or the safety, purity and potency of the biological product for its intended indication; • the submission to the FDA of a new drug application, or NDA, or a biologics license application, or BLA; • satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities involved in the production of the drug to assess compliance with the FDA’s regulations on current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs; and • FDA approval of the NDA or BLA. Nonclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the drug substance, which is the active ingredient, and the drug product, which is the dosage form containing the active ingredient, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and pharmacological activity of a drug. The results of the nonclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical and stability data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials in the United States may commence. The IND will automatically become effective 30 days after its receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA before that time raises concerns or questions about the information submitted in the IND. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can proceed. If these issues are unresolved, the FDA may not allow the 15 Table of Contents clinical trials to commence. There is no guarantee that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to begin. Clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap or be combined. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols, detailing the objectives of the trials, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND prior to beginning the trial. Each trial, including the study protocol and informed consent information for patients in the trial, must be reviewed and approved by an independent Institutional Review Board, or IRB, for each investigative site before the clinical trial can begin at that site. Subjects must provide informed consent for all trials. The phases of clinical trials are: • In Phase 1, the initial introduction of the drug into human subjects, the drug is usually tested to assess metabolism, pharmacokinetics and pharmacological actions and safety, including side effects associated with increasing doses and, if possible, early evidence of effectiveness. Phase 1 trials may also involve patients diagnosed with the disease or condition for which the study drug is intended and include assessments compatible with the proposed mechanism of action; • Phase 2 usually involves controlled trials in a limited patient population to: • evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug for a specific, targeted condition, • determine dosage tolerance and appropriate dosage for further trials, and • identify possible adverse effects and safety risks; and • Phase 3 trials generally further evaluate clinical efficacy and test further for safety within an expanded patient population with considerations of statistical design and power, to establish the overall risk-benefit relationship of the drug and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the drug. Phase 1, 2, and 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. We, an IRB, or the FDA, may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Additional nonclinical toxicology studies are required after clinical trials have begun. Some of these additional nonclinical toxicology studies may require several years to complete. The FDA can also request that additional clinical trials be conducted as a condition of product approval. Sponsors are required to publicly disseminate information about ongoing and completed clinical trials on a government website administered by the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, and are subject to civil monetary penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions for failing to meet these obligations. Our clinical testing program may be delayed or terminated due to factors such as: • unforeseen safety issues in the clinical trials and/or in the continuing nonclinical toxicology studies; • inability to recruit or retain subjects or patients at the rate we expect; • failure by the subjects and/or the investigators to adhere to protocol requirements; • inability to collect the information required to assess patients adequately for safety and efficacy; and • insufficient evidence of efficacy. The results of the nonclinical and clinical studies, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the drug substance and drug product, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA or BLA for review and potential marketing approval. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA to determine, among other things, whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use, and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMP to assure and preserve the product’s identity, strength, quality, purity, and potency. In most cases, the NDA or BLA must be accompanied by a substantial user fee. Before approving an NDA or BLA, the FDA will inspect the manufacturing facility or facilities used to produce the drug substance and drug product for compliance with cGMP regulations. The FDA may deny an NDA or BLA if all applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical, toxicology or chemistry, manufacturing and controls data. Even after an NDA or BLA results in approval to market a product, the FDA 16 Table of Contents may limit the approved indications for which the product may be marketed or place other limitations that restrict the commercial application of the product. If the FDA’s evaluation of the NDA or BLA and the inspection of the manufacturing facilities are favorable, the FDA may issue an approval letter, which authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval of a new NDA or BLA or of an NDA or BLA supplement before the change can be implemented. As a condition of NDA or BLA approval, the FDA may require additional clinical testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and may impose other conditions, including labeling restrictions and restrictions on distribution and use of the drug. The FDA may withdraw product approval if compliance with regulatory standards or conditions of the marketing approval is not maintained or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market. In addition, the FDA requires surveillance programs to monitor the consistency of manufacturing and the safety of approved products that have been commercialized. Holders of an approved NDA or BLA are required to report certain adverse reactions and production problems to the FDA, to provide updated safety and efficacy information, and to comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling. The agency has the power to require changes in labeling or to prevent further marketing of a product based on new data that may arise after commercialization. In addition, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP requirements after approval, to assure and preserve the quality and stability of the drug product. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, including its extensive procedural, substantive and record keeping requirements. Also, new federal, state, or local government requirements may be established that could delay or prevent regulatory approval of our products under development. If the FDA’s evaluation of the NDA or BLA or manufacturing facilities is not favorable, the FDA may refuse to approve the NDA or BLA or issue a complete response letter. The complete response letter describes the deficiencies that the FDA has identified in an application and, when possible, recommends actions that the applicant might take to place the application in condition for approval. Such actions may include, among other things, conducting additional safety or efficacy studies after which the sponsor may resubmit the application for further review. Even with the completion of this additional testing or the submission of additional requested information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. With limited exceptions, the FDA may withhold approval of an NDA or BLA, regardless of prior advice it may have provided or commitments it may have made to the sponsor. It may take many years and the expenditure of substantial resources to evaluate fully the safety and efficacy of a drug candidate or the safety, purity and potency of a biological product candidate in nonclinical and clinical studies, to qualify appropriate drug or biological product formulations, and to ensure manufacturing processes are compliant with regulations. Data obtained in nonclinical studies or early clinical studies may not be indicative of results that might be obtained in later clinical trials that are often critical to the regulatory approval process. Formulation and/or manufacturing changes may cause delays in the development plan or require re-testing. Many of the activities may be subject to varying interpretations that could limit, delay, or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, requirements for regulatory approval may change at any time during the course of clinical or nonclinical studies, requiring some facets of those studies to be repeated at additional cost and time. We will also be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and the marketing and sale of our products. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must be obtained prior to the commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. For marketing outside the U.S., we are also subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, approval, pricing, and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, we are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential future federal, state, or local regulations. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our 17 Table of Contents safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal, and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. Our collaborators under the various license agreements we have completed have assumed responsibility for regulatory issues pertinent to any drug candidates or marketed products that may arise from our collaborations. Manufacturing We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of any of our drug candidates. We currently rely and expect to continue to rely on other companies for the manufacture of our drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. We currently source our bulk drug manufacturing requirements from a limited number of contract manufacturers through the issuance of work orders on an as-needed basis. We depend and will continue to depend on our contract manufacturers to manufacture our drug candidates in accordance with cGMP regulations for use in clinical trials. We will ultimately depend on contract manufacturers for the manufacture of our products for commercial sale. Contract manufacturers are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Under our collaborative agreements with Merck KGaA and Merck, our collaborators are responsible for manufacturing the drug candidates. Competition We are developing our TLR-targeted drug candidates for use in the treatment of infectious diseases, autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, respiratory diseases, and cancer, and for use as vaccine adjuvants. For all of the disease areas in which we are developing potential therapies, there are many other companies, public and private, that are actively engaged in discovery, development, and commercializing products and technologies that may compete with our technologies and drug candidates and technology, including TLR targeted compounds as well as non-TLR targeted therapies. We are developing IMO-2125 for use as an alternative to recombinant interferon in the treatment of HCV. The current standard of care in the treatment of HCV consists of a single recombinant interferon-alpha protein plus ribavarin. If we are able to commercialize IMO-2125 for chronic HCV infection, we will face competition from the interferons currently marketed today and advanced forms of recombinant interferons being developed, including those being developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Biolex Therapeutics, Inc. In addition, to the extent that a therapy is developed as an alternative to the current standard of care that does not include recombinant interferon or any alternative to recombinant interferon, we may face competition from those therapies as well, such as protease and polymerase inhibitors being developed by Merck, Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Pharmasset, Inc. We are also aware of numerous other compounds in clinical trials that target chronic HCV infection through a number of different mechanisms of action, and we believe that there are many additional potential HCV treatments in research or early development. There are also a number of companies developing TLR-targeted compounds for chronic HCV infection, including Dynavax Technologies Corporation, Anadys Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Gilead Sciences, Inc. Our principal competitors developing TLR-targeted compounds for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases include Dynavax Technologies Corporation, with its collaborator, GlaxoSmithKline, and for respiratory diseases include AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals plc, Pfizer, Inc., in collaboration with Sanofi-Aventis Groupe, Cytos Biotechnology, Dynavax Technologies Corporation in collaboration with AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals plc, and VentiRx Pharmaceuticals. For our partnered programs, our principal competitors developing TLR-targeted compounds for cancer treatment include Pfizer, Inc., Anadys Pharmaceutical, Inc. and VentiRx Pharmaceuticals. Merck’s vaccines using our TLR7, 8 or 9 agonists as adjuvants may compete with vaccines being developed or marketed by GlaxoSmithKline plc, Novartis, Dynavax Technologies Corporation, VaxInnate, Inc., Intercell AG, Cytos Biotechnology AG and Celldex Therapeutics, Inc. 18 Table of Contents Some of the potentially competitive products have been in development or commercialized for years, in some cases by large, well established pharmaceutical companies. Many of the marketed products have been accepted by the medical community, patients, and third-party payors. Our ability to compete may be affected by the previous adoption of such products by the medical community, patients, and third-party payors. Additionally, in some instances, insurers and other third-party payors seek to encourage the use of generic products, which makes branded products, such as our drug candidates, potentially less attractive, from a cost perspective, to buyers. We recognize that other companies, including large pharmaceutical companies, may be developing or have plans to develop products and technologies that may compete with ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and human resources than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in undertaking preclinical studies and human clinical trials of new pharmaceutical products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products for use in health care and manufacturing, and marketing and selling approved products. Our competitors may discover, develop or commercialize products or other novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than any that we are developing. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. We anticipate that the competition with our products and technologies will be based on a number of factors including product efficacy, safety, availability, and price. The timing of market introduction of our products and competitive products will also affect competition among products. We expect the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical trials, and approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market to be important competitive factors. Our competitive position will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, to obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes, and protect our intellectual property, and to secure sufficient capital resources for the period between technological conception and commercial sales. Employees As of March 1, 2011, we employed 36 individuals. Of our 36 employees, 24 are engaged in research and development and 21 hold a Ph.D., M.D., or equivalent degree. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider relations with our employees to be good. Information Available on the Internet Our internet address is www.iderapharma.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our internet address is included in this document as an inactive textual reference. We make available free of charge through our web site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 12(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 19 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before purchasing our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We have incurred substantial losses and expect to continue to incur losses. We will not be successful unless we reverse this trend. We have incurred losses in every year since our inception, except for 2002, 2008, and 2009 when our recognition of revenues under license and collaboration agreements resulted in our reporting net income for those years. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $351.6 million. We have incurred losses of $91.4 million since January 1, 2001 and losses of $260.2 million prior to December 31, 2000 during which time we were primarily involved in the development of antisense technology. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity, total assets, and working capital. We have never had any products of our own available for commercial sale and have received no revenues from the sale of drugs. To date, almost all of our revenues have been from collaborative and license agreements. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts to research and development, including clinical trials, and we have not completed development of any drug candidates. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses, whether or when any of our drug candidates will become commercially available, or when we will become profitable, if at all. We expect to incur substantial operating losses in future periods. We will need additional financing, which may be difficult to obtain. Our failure to obtain necessary financing or doing so on unattractive terms could adversely affect our research and development programs and other operations. We will require substantial funds to conduct research and development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of our drug candidates. We will also require substantial funds to conduct regulatory activities and to establish commercial manufacturing, marketing, and sales capabilities. We had cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $34.6 million at December 31, 2010. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to fund our operations at least through March 31, 2012 based on our current operating plan, including the Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-2125 in HCV patients for which we intend to initiate enrollment in the second quarter of 2011 and nonclinical studies to support the initiation of a Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-3100 in an initial autoimmune disease indication during this period. We expect to need to raise additional funds to operate our business beyond March 31, 2012. We expect to seek additional funding through collaborations, the sale or license of assets, or financings of equity or debt securities. We believe that the key factors that will affect our ability to obtain additional funding are: • the success of our clinical and preclinical development programs; • the success of our existing strategic collaborations with Merck KGaA and Merck; • the cost, timing, and outcome of regulatory reviews; • competitive and potentially competitive products and technologies and investors’ receptivity to our drug candidates and the technology underlying them in light of competitive products and technologies; 20 Table of Contents • the receptivity of the capital markets to financings by biotechnology companies generally and companies with drug candidates and technologies such as ours specifically; and • our ability to enter into additional strategic collaborations with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and the success of such collaborations. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or may not be available to us on favorable terms. We could be required to seek funds through collaborative alliances or through other means that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, drug candidates or drugs that we would otherwise pursue on our own. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our then existing stockholders will experience dilution. The terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of existing stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends, and are likely to include rights that are senior to the holders of our common stock. Any additional debt financing or equity that we raise may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences, or liens or other restrictions on our assets, which are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we are unable to obtain adequate funding on a timely basis or at all, we may be required to terminate, modify or delay preclinical or clinical trials of one or more of our drug candidates, fail to establish or delay the establishment of manufacturing, sale or marketing capabilities, curtail research and development programs for new drug candidates and/or possibly relinquish rights to portions of our technology, drug candidates and/or products. For example, we significantly curtailed expenditures on our research and development programs during 1999 and 2000 because we did not have sufficient funds available to advance these programs at planned levels. Risks Relating to Our Business, Strategy and Industry We are depending heavily on the success of IMO-2125, IMO-3100, and our collaborative alliances. If we or our collaborators are unable to successfully develop and commercialize our drug candidates, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. We are investing a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of our clinical stage lead drug candidates for infectious diseases, IMO-2125, and for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, IMO-3100. We anticipate that our ability to generate product revenues will depend heavily on the successful development and commercialization of IMO-2125, IMO-3100 and other drug candidates, including drug candidates being developed by our collaborators. The commercial success of these drug candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: • the drug candidates demonstrating an acceptable safety profile in nonclinical studies and during clinical trials; • timely enrollment in our anticipated clinical trials of IMO-2125 and IMO-3100 and other on-going or planned clinical trials, which may be slower than we anticipate, potentially resulting in significant delays; • satisfying conditions imposed on us and/or our collaborators by the FDA or equivalent foreign regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • the ability to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA, or equivalent foreign regulatory authorities, the safety and efficacy of the drug candidates through current and future clinical trials; • the ability to combine our drug candidates and the drug candidates being developed by our collaborators safely and successfully with other therapeutic agents; • timely receipt of necessary marketing approvals from the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities; • achieving and maintaining compliance with all regulatory requirements applicable to the products; • establishment of commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers; 21 Table of Contents • the successful commercial launch of the drug candidates, assuming FDA approval is obtained, whether alone or in combination with other products; • acceptance of the products as safe and effective by patients, the medical community and third-party payors; • competition from other companies and their therapies; • changes in treatment regimes; • successful protection of our intellectual property rights from competing products in the United States and abroad; and • a continued acceptable safety and efficacy profile of the drug candidates following marketing approval. Our efforts to commercialize IMO-2125 and IMO-3100 are at early stages, as we are currently planning the conduct of Phase 2 safety and dose optimization clinical trials of these drug candidates. If we are not successful in commercializing these or our other drug candidates, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. If our clinical trials are unsuccessful, or if they are delayed or terminated, we may not be able to develop and commercialize our products. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our products, we are required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex, and expensive processes with uncertain results. We may not be able to complete any clinical trial of a potential product within any specified time period. Moreover, clinical trials may not show our potential products to be both safe and efficacious. The FDA or other equivalent foreign regulatory agencies may not allow us to complete these trials or commence and complete any other clinical trials. The results from preclinical testing of a drug candidate that is under development may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. In addition, the results of early human clinical trials may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in larger scale, advanced stage clinical trials. Furthermore, interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and failure of any of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. Companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including companies with greater experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials than we have, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after demonstrating promising results in earlier trials. For example, in December 2010, we announced interim results from a Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-2125 combined with ribavirin in treatment-naïve patients with chronic HCV infection. However, while these results were positive, these interim results may not be predictive of the final results of this trial or other planned clinical trials of IMO-2125 in combination with other treatments. Moreover, companies developing drugs targeted to TLRs have experienced setbacks in clinical trials. For example in 2007, Coley Pharmaceutical Group, which since has been acquired by Pfizer, Inc., discontinued four clinical trials for PF-3512676, its investigational TLR9 agonist compound, in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy in cancer, and suspended its development of a TLR9 agonist, Actilon®, for HCV infection. In July 2007, Anadys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its partner Novartis announced that they had decided to discontinue the development of ANA975, the investigational TLR7 agonist compound for HCV infection. Dynavax Technologies Corporation announced in May 2008 discontinuation of the clinical development program for TOLAMBA®, which comprises a TLR9 agonist covalently attached to a ragweed antigen. There are few data on the long-term clinical safety of our lead compounds under conditions of prolonged use in humans, or on any long-term consequences subsequent to human use. Effects seen in nonclinical studies, even if not observed in clinical trials, may result in limitations or restrictions on our clinical trials. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing, nonclinical testing or the clinical trial process that could delay or inhibit our ability to receive regulatory approval or to commercialize our products. For example, we are conducting additional nonclinical studies of IMO-3100 before we initiate a Phase 2 clinical trial, in light of some reversible immune 22 Table of Contents responses that were observed in our 13-week nonclinical toxicology studies and that were inconsistent with our other nonclinical studies of IMO-3100. Other events that could delay or inhibit conduct of our clinical trials include: • regulators or IRBs may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • nonclinical or clinical data may not be readily interpreted, which may lead to delays and/or misinterpretation; • our nonclinical tests, including toxicology studies, or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional nonclinical testing or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we expect may not be promising; • the rate of enrollment or retention of patients in our clinical trials may be lower than we expect; • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating subjects experience serious adverse events or undesirable side effects or are exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators or IRBs may hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements, issues identified through inspections of manufacturing or clinical trial operations or clinical trial sites, or if, in their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators may hold or suspend our clinical trials while collecting supplemental information on, or clarification of, our clinical trials or other clinical trials, including trials conducted in other countries or trials conducted by other companies; • we, along with our collaborators and subcontractors, may not employ, in any capacity, persons who have been debarred under the FDA’s Application Integrity Policy, or similar policy under foreign regulatory authorities. Employment of such debarred persons, even if inadvertent, may result in delays in the FDA’s or foreign equivalent’s review or approval of our products, or the rejection of data developed with the involvement of such person(s); • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; and • our products may not cause the desired effects or may cause undesirable side effects or our products may have other unexpected characteristics. The rate of completion of clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate of enrollment of patients. For example, in our Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-2125 in patients with chronic HCV infection who had not responded to the current standard of care therapy, completion of each cohort took longer than anticipated due to enrollment procedures. Patient accrual is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; • the eligibility criteria for the study; • the nature of the study, including the pattern of patient enrollment; • the existence of competitive clinical trials; and • the availability of alternative treatments. We do not know whether clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant clinical trial delays also could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products. 23 Table of Contents Delays in commencing clinical trials of potential products could increase our costs, delay any potential revenues, and reduce the probability that a potential product will receive regulatory approval. Our drug candidates and our collaborators’ drug candidates will require preclinical and other nonclinical testing and extensive clinical trials prior to submission of any regulatory application for commercial sales. In conducting clinical trials, we cannot be certain that any planned clinical trial will begin on time, if at all. Delays in commencing clinical trials of potential products could increase our product development costs, delay any potential revenues, and reduce the probability that a potential product will receive regulatory approval. Commencing clinical trials may be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays in: • manufacturing sufficient quantities of drug candidate that satisfy the required quality standards for use in clinical trials; • demonstrating sufficient safety to obtain regulatory approval for conducting a clinical trial; • reaching an agreement with any collaborators on all aspects of the clinical trial; • reaching agreement with contract research organizations, if any, and clinical trial sites on all aspects of the clinical trial; • resolving any objections from the FDA or any regulatory authority on an IND application or proposed clinical trial design; • obtaining IRB approval for conducting a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • enrolling patients in order to commence the clinical trial. The technologies on which we rely are unproven and may not result in any approved and marketable products. Our technologies or therapeutic approaches are relatively new and unproven. We have focused our efforts on the research and development of RNA- and DNA-based compounds targeted to TLRs. Neither we nor any other company have obtained regulatory approval to market such compounds as therapeutic drugs, and no such products currently are being marketed. It is unknown whether the results of preclinical studies with TLR-targeted compounds will be indicative of results that may be obtained in clinical trials, and results we have obtained in the initial small-scale clinical trials we have conducted to date may not be predictive of results in subsequent large-scale clinical trials. Further, the chemical and pharmacological properties of RNA- and DNA-based compounds targeted to TLRs may not be fully recognized in preclinical studies and small-scale clinical trials, and such compounds may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways that we have not yet identified. As a result of these factors, we may never succeed in obtaining regulatory approval to market any product. Furthermore, the commercial success of any of our products for which we may obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payors as clinically useful, safe, and cost-effective. In addition, if products based upon TLR technology being developed by our competitors have negative clinical trial results or otherwise are viewed negatively, the perception of our TLR technology and market acceptance of our products could be impacted negatively. Our efforts to educate the medical community on our potentially unique approaches may require greater resources than would be typically required for products based on conventional technologies or therapeutic approaches. The safety, efficacy, convenience, and cost-effectiveness of our products as compared to competitive products will also affect market acceptance. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing drugs before or more successfully than us. We are developing our TLR-targeted drug candidates for use in the treatment of infectious diseases, autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, respiratory diseases, and cancer, and as vaccine adjuvants. For all of the disease areas in which we are developing potential therapies, there are many other companies, public and private, that are actively engaged in discovering, developing, and commercializing products and technologies that 24 Table of Contents may compete with our technologies and drug candidates and technology, including TLR targeted compounds as well as non-TLR targeted therapies. We are developing IMO-2125 for use as an alternative to recombinant interferon in the treatment of HCV. The current standard of care in the treatment of HCV consists of a single recombinant interferon-alpha protein plus ribavarin. If we are able to commercialize IMO-2125 for chronic HCV infection, we will face competition from the interferons currently marketed today and advanced forms of recombinant interferons being developed, including those being developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Biolex Therapeutics, Inc. In addition, to the extent that a therapy is developed as an alternative to the current standard of care that does not include recombinant interferon or any alternative to recombinant interferon, we may face competition from those therapies as well, such as protease and polymerase inhibitors being developed by Merck, Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Pharmasset, Inc. We are also aware of numerous other compounds in clinical trials that target chronic HCV infection through a number of different mechanisms of action, and we believe that there are many additional potential HCV treatments in research or early development. There are also a number of companies developing TLR-targeted compounds for chronic HCV infection, including Dynavax Technologies Corporation, Anadys Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Gilead Sciences, Inc. Our principal competitors developing TLR-targeted compounds for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases include Dynavax Technologies Corporation, with its collaborator, GlaxoSmithKline plc and for respiratory diseases include AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals plc, Pfizer, Inc., in collaboration with Sanofi-Aventis Groupe, Cytos Biotechnology AG, Dynavax Technologies Corporation in collaboration with AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals plc, and VentiRx Pharmaceuticals. For our partnered programs, our principal competitors developing TLR-targeted compounds for cancer treatment include Pfizer, Inc., Anadys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and VentiRx Pharmaceuticals. Merck’s vaccines using our TLR7, 8 or 9 agonists as adjuvants may compete with vaccines being developed or marketed by GlaxoSmithKline plc, Novartis, Dynavax Technologies Corporation, VaxInnate, Inc., Intercell AG, Cytos Biotechnology AG, and Celldex Therapeutics, Inc. Some of these potentially competitive products have been in development or commercialized for years, in some cases by large, well established pharmaceutical companies. Many of the marketed products have been accepted by the medical community, patients, and third-party payors. Our ability to compete may be affected by the previous adoption of such products by the medical community, patients, and third-party payors. Additionally, in some instances, insurers and other third-party payors seek to encourage the use of generic products, which makes branded products, such as our drug candidates, potentially less attractive, from a cost perspective, to buyers. We recognize that other companies, including large pharmaceutical companies, may be developing or have plans to develop products and technologies that may compete with ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and human resources than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in undertaking preclinical studies and human clinical trials of new pharmaceutical products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products for use in health care and manufacturing, and marketing and selling approved products. Our competitors may discover, develop or commercialize products or other novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than any that we are developing. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. We anticipate that the competition with our products and technologies will be based on a number of factors including product efficacy, safety, availability, and price. The timing of market introduction of our products and competitive products will also affect competition among products. We expect the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical trials, and approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market to be important competitive factors. Our competitive position will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, to obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes, and protect our intellectual property, and to secure sufficient capital resources for the period between technological conception and commercial sales. 25 Table of Contents Competition for technical and management personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be able to sustain our operations or grow if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our success is highly dependent on the retention of principal members of our technical and management staff, including Dr. Sudhir Agrawal. Dr. Agrawal serves as our Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer. Dr. Agrawal has made significant contributions to the field of oligonucleotide-based drug candidates, and has led the discovery and development of our compounds targeted to TLRs. He is named as an inventor on over 400 patents and patent applications worldwide. Dr. Agrawal provides us with leadership for our management team and research and development activities. The loss of Dr. Agrawal’s services would be detrimental to our ongoing scientific progress and the execution of our business plan. We are a party to an employment agreement with Dr. Agrawal that expires on October 19, 2013, but automatically extends annually for an additional year. This agreement may be terminated by us or Dr. Agrawal for any reason or no reason at any time upon notice to the other party. We do not carry key man life insurance for Dr. Agrawal. Furthermore, our future growth will require hiring a number of qualified technical and management personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we are not able to continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or growth. Regulatory Risks We may not be able to obtain marketing approval for products resulting from our development efforts. All of the drug candidates that we are developing, or may develop in the future, will require additional research and development, extensive preclinical studies, nonclinical testing, clinical trials, and regulatory approval prior to any commercial sales. This process is lengthy, often taking a number of years, is uncertain, and is expensive. Since our inception, we have conducted clinical trials of a number of compounds. Currently, we have two candidates, IMO-2125 and IMO-3100, in clinical development. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve any of our potential products for any indication. We may need to address a number of technological challenges in order to complete development of our products. Moreover, these products may not be effective in treating any disease or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, unintended alteration of the immune system over time, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. If we do not obtain necessary regulatory approvals, our business will be adversely affected. We are subject to comprehensive regulatory requirements, which are costly and time consuming to comply with; if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to adverse consequences and penalties. The testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, export, and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in Europe, the United States, and elsewhere throughout the world. In general, submission of materials requesting permission to conduct clinical trials may not result in authorization by the FDA or any equivalent foreign regulatory agency to commence clinical trials. Further, permission to continue ongoing trials may be withdrawn by the FDA or other regulatory agencies at any time after initiation, based on new information available after the initial authorization to commence clinical trials or for other reasons. In addition, submission of an application for marketing approval to the relevant regulatory agency following completion of clinical trials may not result in the regulatory agency approving the application if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, and may result in the regulatory agency requiring additional testing or information. 26 Table of Contents Even if we obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and regulatory oversight. Any regulatory approval of a product may contain limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the facilities at which the product is manufactured, any post-approval clinical data, and any advertising and promotional activities for the product will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Both before and after approval is obtained, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in: • the regulatory agency’s delay in approving, or refusal to approve, an application for marketing of a product or a supplement to an approved application; • restrictions on our products or the marketing or manufacturing of our products; • withdrawal of our products from the market; • warning letters; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls; • fines; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • product seizure or detention; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • injunctions or the imposition of civil penalties; and • criminal penalties. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs and our products are based on new technologies; these factors may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We have only limited experience in filing the applications necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. Moreover, the products that result from our research and development programs will likely be based on new technologies and new therapeutic approaches that have not been extensively tested in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these types of products may be more rigorous than for conventional drugs. As a result, we may experience a longer regulatory process in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals of any product that we develop. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in jurisdictions outside the United States will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We intend to market our products, if approved, in markets outside the United States, which will require separate regulatory approvals and compliance with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedures vary among such markets and may involve requirements for additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. 27 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Collaborators We need to establish additional collaborative alliances in order to succeed. We seek to advance some of our products through collaborative alliances with pharmaceutical companies. Collaborators provide the necessary resources and drug development experience to advance our compounds in their programs. Upfront payments and milestone payments received from collaborations help to provide us with the financial resources for our internal research and development programs. Our internal programs are focused on developing TLR-targeted drug candidates for the potential treatment of infectious diseases, autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, cancer, and respiratory diseases. We believe that additional resources will be required to advance compounds in all of these areas. If we do not reach agreements with additional collaborators in the future, our ability to advance our compounds will be jeopardized and we may fail to meet our business objectives. If we cannot enter into additional collaboration agreements, we may not be able to obtain the expertise and resources necessary to achieve our business objectives. We face, and will continue to face, significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaborations are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document, and implement. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements. The terms of any collaborations or other arrangements that we establish, if any, may not be favorable to us. Our existing collaborations and any collaborations we enter into in the future may not be successful. An important element of our business strategy includes entering into collaborative alliances with corporate collaborators, primarily large pharmaceutical companies, for the development, commercialization, marketing, and distribution of some of our drug candidates. In December 2007, we entered into an exclusive, worldwide license agreement with Merck KGaA to research, develop, and commercialize products containing our TLR9 agonists for treatment of cancer, excluding cancer vaccines. In December 2006, we entered into an exclusive license and research collaboration with Merck to research, develop, and commercialize vaccine products containing our TLR7, 8, and 9 agonists in the fields of cancer, infectious diseases, and Alzheimer’s disease. Any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful. The success of our collaborative alliances, if any, will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Our existing collaborations and any potential future collaborations have risks, including the following: • our collaborators may control the development of the drug candidates being developed with our technologies and compounds including the timing of development; • our collaborators may control the public release of information regarding the developments, and we may not be able to make announcements or data presentations on a schedule favorable to us; • disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our collaborators; • disagreements with our collaborators could delay or terminate the research, development or commercialization of products, or result in litigation or arbitration; • we may have difficulty enforcing the contracts if any of our collaborators fail to perform; • our collaborators may terminate their collaborations with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or adversely affect the perception of us in the business or financial communities; • our collaboration agreements are likely to be for fixed terms and subject to termination by our collaborators in the event of a material breach or lack of scientific progress by us; • our collaborators may have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights and, although we would likely have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if our collaborators do not, our ability to do so may be compromised by our collaborators’ acts or omissions; 28 Table of Contents • our collaborators may challenge our intellectual property rights or utilize our intellectual property rights in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property rights or expose us to potential liability; • our collaborators may not comply with all applicable regulatory requirements, or may fail to report safety data in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements; • our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. For example, we have a strategic partnership with Merck, which merged with Schering-Plough, which has been involved with certain TLR-targeted research and development programs. Although the merger has not affected our partnership with Merck to date, management of the combined company could determine to reduce the efforts and resources that the combined company will apply to its strategic partnership with us or terminate the strategic partnership. The ability of our products to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborators decrease or fail to increase spending relating to such products; • our collaborators may under fund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or development of our products; and • our collaborators may develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, or encounter conflicts of interest or changes in business strategy or other business issues, which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us. Given these risks, it is possible that any collaborative alliance into which we enter may not be successful. Collaborations with pharmaceutical companies and other third parties often are terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. For example, effective as of February 2010, Novartis International Pharmaceutical, Ltd. terminated the research collaboration and option agreement that we entered into with it in May 2005. Merck may terminate its license and research collaboration agreement by giving us 90 days advance notice. Merck KGaA may terminate its license agreement with us at its convenience by giving us 90 days advance notice. The termination or expiration of either of these agreements or any other collaboration agreement that we enter into in the future may adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain patent protection for our discoveries, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. Our patent positions, and those of other drug discovery companies, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific, and factual questions. Our ability to develop and commercialize drugs depends in significant part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • obtain licenses to the proprietary rights of others on commercially reasonable terms; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights; and • protect our trade secrets. We do not know whether any of our patent applications or those patent applications that we license will result in the issuance of any patents. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted thereunder may not provide us proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Moreover, intellectual property laws may change and negatively impact our ability to obtain issued patents covering our technologies or to enforce any patents that issue. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing, and regulatory review of a 29 Table of Contents potential product, it is possible that, before any of our products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage provided by the patent. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. As of March 1, 2011, we owned 73 U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications and 230 corresponding patents and patent applications throughout the rest of the world for our TLR-targeted immune modulation technologies. These patents and patent applications include novel chemical compositions of matter and methods of use of our IMO compounds, including IMO-2125, IMO-3100 and IMO-2055. With respect to IMO-2125, we have issued patents that cover the chemical composition of matter of IMO-2125 and methods of its use, with the earliest composition claims expiring in 2026. With respect to IMO-3100, we have patent applications that cover the chemical composition of matter of IMO-3100 and methods of its use that, if issued, would expire at the earliest in 2026. With respect to IMO-2055, we have issued patents that cover the chemical composition of matter of IMO-2055 and methods of its use, including in combination with marketed cancer products, with the earliest composition claims expiring in 2023. With respect to IMO-4200, we have patent applications that cover the chemical composition of matter of IMO-4200 and methods of its use that, if issued, would expire at the earliest in 2027. As of March 1, 2011, we own two U.S. patent applications and one worldwide patent application for our GSO compounds and methods of their use. Patents issuing from these patent applications, if any, would expire at the earliest in 2030. In addition to our TLR-targeted and GSO patent portfolios, we are the owner or hold licenses of patents and patent applications related to antisense technology. As of March 1, 2011, our antisense patent portfolio included 101 U.S. patents and patent applications and 124 patents and patent applications throughout the rest of the world. These antisense patents and patent applications include novel compositions of matter, the use of these compositions for various genes, sequences and therapeutic targets, and oral and other routes of administration. Some of the patents and patent applications in our antisense portfolio were in-licensed. These patents expire at various dates ranging from 2014 to 2022. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications and require us to seek licenses, which could increase our development and commercialization costs, or prevent us from developing or marketing products. Although we have many issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States and other countries, we may not have rights under certain third party patents or patent applications related to our products. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. In particular, we are aware of third party United States patents that contain broad claims related to the use of certain oligonucleotides for stimulating an immune response, although we do not believe that these claims are valid. In addition, there may be other patents and patent applications related to our products of which we are not aware. Therefore, in some cases, in order to develop, manufacture, sell or import some of our products, we or our collaborators may choose to seek, or be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents issued in the United States and abroad or under third party patents that might issue from United States and foreign patent applications. In such an event, we would be required to pay license fees or royalties or both to the licensor. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we or our collaborators may not be able to develop, manufacture, sell or import these products. 30 Table of Contents We may lose our rights to patents, patent applications or technologies of third parties if our licenses from these third parties are terminated. In such an event, we might not be able to develop or commercialize products covered by the licenses. Currently, we have not in-licensed any patents or patent applications related to our TLR-targeted drug candidate programs or our GSO compounds and methods of their use. However, we are party to seven royalty-bearing license agreements under which we have acquired rights to patents, patent applications, and technology of third parties in the field of antisense technology, which may be applicable to our TLR antisense. Under these licenses we are obligated to pay royalties on net sales by us of products or processes covered by a valid claim of a patent or patent application licensed to us. We also are required in some cases to pay a specified percentage of any sublicense income that we may receive. These licenses impose various commercialization, sublicensing, insurance, and other obligations on us. Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in termination of the licenses. These licenses generally will otherwise remain in effect until the expiration of all valid claims of the patents covered by such licenses or upon earlier termination by the parties. The issued patents covered by these licenses expire at various dates ranging from 2014 to 2022. If one or more of these licenses is terminated, we may be delayed in our efforts, or be unable, to develop and market the products that are covered by the applicable license or licenses. We may become involved in expensive patent litigation or other proceedings, which could result in our incurring substantial costs and expenses or substantial liability for damages or require us to stop our development and commercialization efforts. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology industry. We may become a party to various types of patent litigation or other proceedings regarding intellectual property rights from time to time even under circumstances where we are not practicing and do not intend to practice any of the intellectual property involved in the proceedings. For instance, in 2002, 2003, and 2005, we became involved in interference proceedings declared by the USPTO for some of our antisense and ribozyme patents. All of these interferences have since been resolved. We are neither practicing nor intending to practice the intellectual property that is associated with any of these interference proceedings. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. If any patent litigation or other proceeding is resolved against us, we or our collaborators may be enjoined from developing, manufacturing, selling or importing our drugs without a license from the other party and we may be held liable for significant damages. We may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Risks Relating to Product Manufacturing, Marketing and Sales, and Reliance on Third Parties Because we have limited manufacturing experience, and no manufacturing facilities or infrastructure, we are dependent on third-party manufacturers to manufacture drug candidates for us. If we cannot rely on third-party manufacturers, we will be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to establish our own manufacturing facilities and capabilities. We have limited manufacturing experience and no manufacturing facilities, infrastructure or clinical or commercial scale manufacturing capabilities. In order to continue to develop our drug candidates, apply for regulatory approvals, and ultimately commercialize products, we need to develop, contract for or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. We currently rely upon third parties to produce material for nonclinical and clinical testing purposes and expect to continue to do so in the future. We also expect to rely upon third parties to produce materials that may be 31 Table of Contents required for the commercial production of our products. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our drug candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop drug candidates and commercialize any drug candidates on a timely and competitive basis. We currently do not have any long term supply contracts. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations capable of manufacturing our drug candidates. As a result, we may have difficulty finding manufacturers for our products with adequate capacity for our needs. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing of our drug candidates on a timely basis, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of our drug candidates or market them. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured drug candidates ourselves, including: • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; • the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us; • the potential that third-party manufacturers will develop know-how owned by such third party in connection with the production of our drug candidates that becomes necessary for the manufacture of our drug candidates; and • reliance upon third-party manufacturers to assist us in preventing inadvertent disclosure or theft of our proprietary knowledge. Any contract manufacturers with which we enter into manufacturing arrangements will be subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspections by the FDA, or foreign equivalent, and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure compliance with cGMP requirements and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. One of our contract manufacturers notified us that it had received a GMP warning letter from the FDA in February 2011. Any failure by our third-party manufacturers to comply with such requirements, regulations or standards could lead to a delay in the conduct of our clinical trials, or a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates. Such failure could also result in sanctions being imposed, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, product seizures or recalls, imposition of operating restrictions, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, or criminal prosecution. Additionally, contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our drug candidates at a cost or in quantities necessary to make them commercially viable. To date, our third-party manufacturers have met our manufacturing requirements, but we cannot be assured that they will continue to do so. Furthermore, changes in the manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where the drug substance or drug product is manufactured or a change of a third-party manufacturer, may require prior FDA review and approval in accordance with the FDA’s cGMP and NDA/BLA regulations. Contract manufacturers may also be subject to comparable foreign requirements. This review may be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a drug candidate. The FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies at any time may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards for manufacture, packaging or testing of products. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to comply, we or they may be subject to regulatory action, civil actions or penalties. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. If we receive regulatory approval to commence commercial sales of any of our drug candidates, we will face competition with respect to commercial sales, marketing, and distribution. These are areas in which we have no experience. To market any of our drug candidates directly, we would need to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capability. In particular, we would need to recruit a large 32 Table of Contents number of experienced marketing and sales personnel. Alternatively, we could engage a pharmaceutical or other healthcare company with an existing distribution system and direct sales force to assist us. However, to the extent we entered into such arrangements, we would be dependent on the efforts of third parties. If we are unable to establish sales and distribution capabilities, whether internally or in reliance on third parties, our business would suffer materially. If third parties on whom we rely for clinical trials do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our products and our business may suffer. We do not have the ability to independently conduct the clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers in the conduct of the clinical trials of our drug candidates and expect to continue to do so. We contracted with contract research organizations to manage our recently completed Phase 1 clinical trials of IMO-2125 in patients with chronic HCV infection and our Phase 1 clinical trials of IMO-3100 in healthy subjects and expect to contract with such organizations for future clinical trials. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials, but do not control many aspects of their activities. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with certain standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, and applicable regulatory requirements, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity, and confidentiality of clinical trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule, or at all, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval, and commercialization of our drug candidates. If we seek to conduct any of these activities ourselves in the future, we will need to recruit appropriately trained personnel and add to our infrastructure. The commercial success of any drug candidates that we may develop will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors, and others in the medical community. Any products that we ultimately bring to the market, if they receive marketing approval, may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors or others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenue and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our drug candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • the prevalence and severity of any side effects, including any limitations or warnings contained in the product’s approved labeling; • the efficacy and potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer our drug candidates for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; • the strength of marketing and distribution support and the timing of market introduction of competitive products; and • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments. Even if a potential product displays a favorable efficacy and safety profile, market acceptance of the product will not be known until after it is launched. Our efforts to educate patients, the medical community, and third-party payors on the benefits of our drug candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. Such 33 Table of Contents efforts to educate the marketplace may require more resources than are required by conventional technologies marketed by our competitors. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors for any products that we may develop or acceptable prices for those products, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Most patients rely on Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurers, and other third-party payors to pay for their medical needs, including any drugs we may market. If third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage or reimbursement for any products that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Congress enacted a limited prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients in the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. While the program established by this statute may increase demand for our products if we were to participate in this program, our prices will be negotiated with drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries and are likely to be lower than we might otherwise obtain. Non-Medicare third-party drug procurement organizations may also base the price they are willing to pay on the rate paid by drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries. A primary trend in the United States healthcare industry is toward cost containment. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our drug candidates or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in commercialization of our products. These further clinical trials would require additional time, resources and expenses. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our prospects for generating revenue, if any, could be adversely affected and our business may suffer. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. These health care reform laws are intended to broaden access to health insurance; reduce or constrain the growth of health care spending, especially Medicare spending; enhance remedies against fraud and abuse; add new transparency requirements for health care and health insurance industries; impose new taxes and fees on certain sectors of the health industry; and impose additional health policy reforms. Among the new fees is an annual assessment beginning in 2011 on makers of branded pharmaceuticals and biologics, under which a company’s assessment is based primarily on its share of branded drug sales to federal health care programs. Such fees could affect our future profitability. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the new health care legislation on our future profitability and financial condition, the new law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. Third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly-approved health care products. These third-party payors may base their coverage and reimbursement on the coverage and reimbursement rate paid by carriers for Medicare beneficiaries. Furthermore, many such payors are investigating or implementing methods for reducing health care costs, such as the establishment of capitated or prospective payment systems. Cost containment pressures have led to an increased emphasis on the use of cost-effective products by health care providers. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products that we may develop. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products that we or our current or future collaborators may develop or sell, which would result in lower product revenues or royalties payable to us. We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the manufacturing, testing, and marketing of human therapeutic drugs. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of 34 Table of Contents our drug candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims and product recalls may result in: • decreased demand for our drug candidates and products; • damage to our reputation; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs to defend related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or patients, including awards that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then have to pay using other sources, if available, and would damage our ability to obtain liability insurance at reasonable costs, or at all, in the future; • loss of revenue; • the diversion of management’s attention away from managing our business; and • the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is adequate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities. If we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our commercialization efforts. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our corporate governance structure, including provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law, may prevent a change in control or management that stockholders may consider desirable. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company or discourage a third party from attempting to take over our company. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • limitations on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on our ability to engage in business combinations and other specified transactions with significant stockholders. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 35 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may in the future be extremely volatile. In addition, because an active trading market for our common stock has not developed, our investors’ ability to trade our common stock may be limited. As a result, investors may lose all or a significant portion of their investment. Our stock price has been volatile. During the period from January 1, 2009 to March 1, 2011, the closing sales price of our common stock ranged from a high of $9.06 per share to a low of $2.36 per share. The stock market has also experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, particularly within the past three years, and the market prices of biotechnology companies in particular have been highly volatile, often for reasons that have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • timing and results of clinical trials of our drug candidates or those of our competitors; • the regulatory status of our drug candidates; • failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • the success of competitive products or technologies; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • our success in entering into collaborative agreements; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • the departure of key personnel; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • our cash resources; • the terms of any financing conducted by us; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; and • general economic, industry, and market conditions. In addition, our common stock has historically been traded at low volume levels and may continue to trade at low volume levels. As a result, any large purchase or sale of our common stock could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock and it may be difficult for investors to sell our common stock in the market without depressing the market price for the common stock or at all. As a result of the foregoing, investors may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for such shares. Investors in our common stock must be willing to bear the risk of fluctuations in the price of our common stock and the risk that the value of their investment in our stock could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 