Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth at the beginning of this Report. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and reduce the funds available to us for other purposes and our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt instruments could result in an event of default that could adversely affect our operating results. We have substantial debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we had aggregate outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.21 billion. This indebtedness could adversely affect us in the following ways: •additional financing may not be available to us in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes and, if available, may be considerably more costly than our current debt costs; •a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations or other purposes; •some of the interest on our debt is, and will continue to be, accrued at variable rates, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates, which may occur in future periods; •because we may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, our debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage; •our leverage may increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand adverse events in our business by limiting our financial alternatives; and •our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, and to plan for, or respond to, competition and changes in our business may be limited. Our existing debt agreements contain financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur additional debt, and to engage in other activities that we may believe are in our long-term best interests, including the disposition or acquisition of assets or other companies or the payment of dividends to our shareholders. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness or prevent us from accessing additional funds under our credit facility. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our debt obligations and we may not be able to continue our operations as planned. See discussion regarding our financial covenants in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our existing debt service obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or new acquisitions to repay amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility when it matures in 2016, our private notes when they mature in 2013 or our debt securities when they mature in 2016 and 2036. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or have availability to borrow on our credit facility to satisfy our debt obligations, we expect to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We may not be able to consummate any such transaction at all or on a timely basis or on terms, and for proceeds, that are acceptable to us. These transactions may not be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to timely refinance our obligations on acceptable terms could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and could cause us to reduce or discontinue our planned operations. The costs that we pay for metals fluctuate due to a number of factors beyond our control, and such fluctuations could adversely affect our operating results, particularly if we cannot pass on higher metal prices to our customers. We purchase large quantities of aluminum, carbon, alloy and stainless steel and other metals, which we sell to a variety of end-users. The costs to us for these metals and the prices that we charge customers for our products may change depending on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions (both domestic and international), competition, production levels, raw material costs, customer demand levels, import duties and other trade restrictions, currency fluctuations and surcharges imposed by our suppliers. We attempt to pass cost increases on to our customers with higher selling prices but we may not always be able to do so, particularly when the cost increases are not demand driven. We maintain substantial inventories of metal to accommodate the short lead times and delivery requirements of our customers. Our customers typically purchase products from us pursuant to purchase orders and typically do not enter into long-term purchase agreements or arrangements with us. Accordingly, we purchase metal in quantities we believe to be appropriate to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based on information derived from customers, market conditions, historic usage and industry research. Commitments for metal purchases are generally at prevailing market prices in effect at the time orders are placed or at the time of shipment. During periods of rising prices for metal, we may be negatively impacted by delays between the time of increases in the cost of metals to us and increases in the prices that we charge for our products if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers immediately. In addition, when metal prices decline, this could result in lower selling prices for our products and, as we use existing inventory that we purchased at higher metal prices, lower margins. Consequently, during periods in which we sell this existing inventory, the effects of changing metal prices could adversely affect our operating results. Our business could be adversely affected by economic downturns. Demand for our products is affected by a number of general economic factors. A decline in economic activity in the U.S. and other markets in which we operate could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. During the most recent U.S. economic recession, both demand for our products and pricing levels declined rapidly and significantly. In addition to reducing our direct business activity, many of our customers were not able to pay us amounts when they became due, further affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Although the U.S. recession has ended, overall demand for our products continues to be at lower levels than we believe to be more normal levels, particularly for non-residential construction activity. We have little visibility as to if or when demand will return to 16 Table of Contents pre-recession levels, which may continue to threaten the financial viability of our customers and their ability to pay us and may cause our financial condition to worsen from current levels. If the U.S. institutes austerity measures, including automatic sequesters, or is unable to raise its "debt ceiling", our business could be negatively impacted. Further, any significant deterioration in the global economy from current levels could also negatively impact our business. The prices of metals are subject to fluctuations in the supply and demand for metals worldwide and changes in the worldwide balance of supply and demand could negatively impact our revenues, gross profit and net income. Metal prices are volatile due to, among other things, fluctuations in foreign and domestic production capacity, raw material availability, metals consumption and foreign currency rates. Future changes in global general economic conditions or in production, consumption or export of metals could cause fluctuations in metal prices globally, which could adversely affect our revenues, gross profit and net income. Additionally, significant currency fluctuations in the United States or abroad could negatively impact our cost of metals and the pricing of our products. A decline in the dollar relative to foreign currencies may result in increased prices for metals and metal products in the United States and reduce the amount of metal imported into the U.S. as imported metals become relatively more expensive. If the value of the dollar improves relative to foreign currencies, this may result in increased metal being imported into the U.S., which in turn may pressure existing domestic prices for metal. In addition, when prices for metal products in the U.S. are lower than in foreign markets, metals may be sold in the foreign markets rather than in the U.S., reducing the availability of metal products in the U.S., which may allow the domestic mills to increase their prices. We operate in an industry that is subject to cyclical fluctuations and any downturn in general economic conditions or in our customers' specific industries could negatively impact our revenues, gross profit and net income. The metals service center industry is cyclical and impacted by both market demand and metals supply. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States or other countries, or the public perception that these may occur, could decrease the demand for our products and adversely affect our pricing. If either demand or pricing were to decline from the current levels, this could reduce our revenues, gross profit and net income. We sell many products to industries that are cyclical, such as the non-residential construction, semiconductor, energy and transportation industries, including aerospace. Although many of our direct sales are to sub-contractors or job shops that may serve many customers and industries, the demand for our products is directly related to, and quickly impacted by, demand for the finished goods manufactured by customers in these industries, which may change as a result of changes in the general U.S. or worldwide economy, domestic exchange rates, energy prices or other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to accurately project the product needs of our customers over varying lead times or if there is a limited availability of products through allocation by the mills or otherwise, we may not have sufficient inventory to be able to provide products desired by our customers on a timely basis. In addition, if we are not able to diversify our customer base and/or increase sales of products to customers in other industries when one or more of the cyclical industries that we serve are experiencing a decline, our revenues, gross profit and net income may be adversely affected. We compete with a large number of companies in the metals service center industry, and, if we are unable to compete effectively, our revenues, gross profit and net income may decline. We compete with a large number of other general-line distributors and specialty distributors in the metals service center industry. Competition is based principally on price, inventory availability, timely delivery, customer service, quality and processing capabilities. Competition in the various markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have more established brand names 17 Table of Contents in the local markets that we serve. These competitors may be better able to withstand adverse changes in conditions within our customers' industries and may have greater operating and financial flexibility than we have. To compete for customer sales, we may lower prices or offer increased services at a higher cost, which could reduce our revenues, gross profit and net income. The significantly lower demand levels during 2009 and rapidly declining prices escalated competitive pressures, with service centers selling at substantially reduced prices, and sometimes at a loss, in an effort to reduce their high cost inventory and generate cash. These competitive pressures could intensify again if demand and particularly pricing decline significantly from current levels. Any increased competitive pressure could cause our revenues, gross profit and net income to decline further. If we were to lose any of our primary suppliers or otherwise be unable to obtain sufficient amounts of necessary metals on a timely basis, we may not be able to meet our customers' needs and may suffer reduced sales. We have few long-term contracts to purchase metals. Therefore, our primary suppliers of carbon steel, alloy steel, stainless steel, aluminum or other metals could curtail or discontinue their delivery of these metals to us in the quantities we need with little or no notice. Our ability to meet our customers' needs and provide value-added inventory management services depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of high quality metal products from our suppliers. If our suppliers experience production problems, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, the lead times for receiving our supply of metal products could be extended and the cost of our inventory may increase. If, in the future, we are unable to obtain sufficient amounts of the necessary metals at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our customary suppliers, we may not be able to obtain these metals from acceptable alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedules. Even if we do find acceptable alternative suppliers, the process of locating and securing these alternatives may be disruptive to our business, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to meet our customers' needs and reduce our sales, gross profit and net income. In addition, if a significant domestic supply source is discontinued and we cannot find acceptable domestic alternatives, we may need to find foreign sources of supply. Using foreign sources of supply could result in longer lead times, increased price volatility, less favorable payment terms, increased exposure to foreign currency movements and certain tariffs and duties and require greater levels of working capital. Alternative sources of supply may not maintain the quality standards that are in place with our current suppliers that could impact our ability to provide the same quality of products to our customers that we have provided in the past, which could cause our customers to move their business to our competitors or to file claims against us, and such claims may be more difficult to pass through to foreign suppliers. There has been significant consolidation at the metal producer level both globally and within the U.S. This consolidation has reduced the number of suppliers available to us, which could result in increased metals costs to us that we may not be able to pass on to our customers and may limit our ability to obtain the necessary metals to service our customers. The number of available suppliers may be further reduced if the general economy enters into another recession. Lower metal prices and lower demand levels caused certain mills to reduce their production capacity and, in many cases, to operate at a loss, which could cause one or more mills to discontinue operations if the losses continue over an extended period of time or if the mill cannot obtain the necessary financing to fund its operating costs. We rely upon our suppliers as to the specifications of the metals we purchase from them. We rely on mill certifications that attest to the physical and chemical specifications of the metal received from our suppliers for resale and generally, consistent with industry practice, do not undertake independent testing of such metals. We rely on our customers to notify us of any metal that does not conform to the specifications certified by the supplying mill. Although our primary sources of products have been domestic mills, we have and will continue to purchase product from foreign suppliers when we believe it is appropriate. In the event that metal purchased from domestic suppliers is deemed to not meet quality specifications as set forth in the mill certifications or customer specifications, we generally have 18 Table of Contents recourse against these suppliers for both the cost of the products purchased and possible claims from our customers. However, such recourse will not compensate us for the damage to our reputation that may arise from sub-standard products and possible losses of customers. Moreover, there is a greater level of risk that similar recourse will not be available to us in the event of claims by our customers related to products from foreign suppliers that do not meet the specifications set forth in the mill certifications. In such circumstances, we may be at greater risk of loss for claims for which we do not carry, or do not carry sufficient, insurance. If we do not successfully implement our growth strategy, our ability to grow our business could be impaired. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or successfully complete any acquisitions or integrate any other businesses into our operations. If we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates or are otherwise unable to complete acquisitions, we are unlikely to sustain our historical growth rates, and, if we cannot successfully integrate these businesses, we may incur increased or redundant expenses. Moreover, any additional indebtedness we incur to pay for these acquisitions could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Furthermore, our organic growth activities have been at historically high levels for us in the last few years as we have invested a significant amount of capital in new locations and new processing capabilities. We may not realize the expected returns from these investments and our future financial performance may decline from current levels. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of that transaction. Historically, we have expanded both through acquisitions and internal growth. Since our initial public offering in September 1994, we have successfully purchased more than 50 businesses. From 1984 to September 1994, we acquired 20 businesses. We continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities and expect to continue to grow our business through acquisitions in the future. Risks we may encounter in acquisitions include: •the acquired company may not further our business strategy, or we may pay more than it is worth; •the acquired company may not perform as anticipated, which could result in an impairment charge or otherwise impact our results of operations; •we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to continue purchasing products from us; •we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner; •we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition or assume existing debt of an acquired company, which, among other things, may result in a downgrade of our credit ratings; •we may have multiple and overlapping product lines that may be offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause our gross profit margins to decline; •we may have increased inventory exposure for a short time period if the acquired company has significant amounts of material on order; •our relationship with current and new employees, customers and suppliers could be impaired; •our due diligence process may fail to identify risks that could negatively impact our financial condition; 19 Table of Contents •we may lose anticipated tax benefits or have additional legal or tax exposures if we have prematurely or improperly combined entities; •we may face contingencies related to product liability, intellectual property, financial disclosures, tax positions and accounting practices or internal controls; •the acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; •our management's attention may be diverted by transition or integration issues; and •we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or a number of acquisitions. The pending acquisition of Metals USA if completed will be our largest public company acquisition and there may be risks of which we are not aware or existing risks may change over time. The Metals USA acquisition, if completed, will be our largest acquisition and our second acquisition of a public company. Since the transaction is subject to approval by Metals USA stockholders, along with the receipt of regulatory clearances and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions, and includes a 30-day "go-shop" period, there is a possibility that the acquisition will not be completed. If the Metals USA acquisition is completed, there may be risks associated with the acquisition that we are not aware of at the present time because of the complexities involved with the integration of a business of this size. After the acquisition, customers may choose to diversify their metals suppliers to reduce their dependence on a single supplier of the majority of their metals needs. We may not be able to retain all of the Reliance and Metals USA customers, and any loss of customers and the business that they bring to us could have an adverse effect on our operating results. As a decentralized business, we depend on both senior management and our key operating employees; if we are unable to attract and retain these individuals, our ability to operate and grow our business may be adversely affected. Because of our decentralized operating style, we depend on the efforts of our senior management, including our chairman and chief executive officer, David H. Hannah, our president and chief operating officer, Gregg J. Mollins, and our executive vice president and chief financial officer, Karla Lewis, as well as our key operating employees. We may not be able to retain these individuals or attract and retain additional qualified personnel when needed. We do not have employment agreements with any of our corporate officers or most of our key employees, so they may have less of an incentive to stay with us when presented with alternative employment opportunities. The compensation of our officers and key employees is heavily dependent on our profitability and in times of reduced profitability this may cause our employees to seek employment opportunities that provide a more stable compensation structure. In addition, our senior management and key operating employees hold stock options and restricted shares that have vested and may also hold common stock in our employee stock ownership plan. These individuals may, therefore, be more likely to leave us if the shares of our common stock significantly appreciate in value. The loss of any key officer or employee will require remaining officers and employees to direct immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Our inability to retain members of our senior management or key operating employees or to find adequate replacements for any departing key officer or employee on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to various environmental, employee safety and health and customs and export laws and regulations, which could subject us to significant liabilities and compliance expenditures. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning air emissions, wastewater discharges, underground storage tanks and solid and hazardous waste disposal at or from our facilities. Our operations are also subject to various employee safety and health laws and regulations, including those concerning occupational injury and illness, employee exposure to hazardous materials and employee complaints. We are also subject to customs and exporting laws and regulations for international shipment of our products. Environmental, employee safety and health and customs and export laws and regulations are comprehensive, complex and frequently changing. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. We may be subject from time to time to administrative and/or judicial proceedings or investigations brought by private parties or governmental agencies with respect to environmental matters, employee safety and health issues or customs and exporting issues. Proceedings and investigations with respect to environmental matters, any employee safety and health issues or customs and exporting issues could result in substantial costs to us, divert our management's attention and result in significant liabilities, fines or the suspension or interruption of our service center activities. Some of our current properties are located in industrial areas with histories of heavy industrial use. The location of these properties may require us to incur environmental expenditures and to establish accruals for environmental liabilities that arise from causes other than our operations. In addition, we are currently investigating and remediating contamination in connection with certain properties we have acquired. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or their enforcement, new laws and regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, could result in material environmental or export compliance or remedial liabilities and costs, constrain our operations or make such operations more costly. Our international operations continue to expand, exposing us to additional risks. Our international presence has grown, so the risk of incurring liabilities or fines resulting from non-compliance with various international laws and regulations has increased. Moreover, we are subject to the FCPA, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions such as the UK Bribery Act 2010, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from corruptly paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of money, a gift, or anything of value, to a foreign official or foreign political party, for purposes of obtaining or retaining business. A company can be held liable under these anti-bribery laws not just for its own direct actions, but also for the actions of its foreign subsidiaries or other third parties, such as agents or distributors. In addition, we could be held liable for actions taken by employees or third parties on behalf of a company that we acquire. If we fail to comply with the requirements under these laws, we may face possible civil and/or criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. Proposed legislation aimed at regulating and taxing carbon emissions may impact both the prices we pay for materials and the volume of business from our customers involved in fossil fuel exploration. We purchase large quantities of metal from mills whose production costs may increase because of proposed increases in taxation on carbon emissions as a byproduct of the milling process. Such regulation, if passed, may result in significantly higher prices charged to us by the mills for most every type of metal that we sell. The price that we pay for utilities such as electricity to run our warehouse equipment and fuel to run our delivery trucks and forklifts may rise as well due to increased taxation on the companies who produce and supply these commodities. We may not be able to fully pass on these costs to our customers without a resulting decline in order volumes, which may adversely impact our profits. Carbon-related regulation may also negatively impact domestic exploration efforts. Should such a reduction in domestic exploration occur, we would expect to see a resulting slowdown in sales to our energy end market in general, thus negatively impacting our revenues, gross profit and net income. 21 Table of Contents Regulation from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") could adversely affect our business or financial results. Changes in regulatory requirements, such as the reporting requirements relating to conflict minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of Congo ("DRC") or adjoining countries included in the Dodd-Frank Act, or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance cost, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results. Our operating results have fluctuated, and are expected to continue fluctuating, depending on the season. Some of our customers are in seasonal businesses, including customers in the construction and related industries. Revenues in the months of July, November and December traditionally have been lower than in other months because of increased vacation days and holiday closures for various customers. Consequently, you should not rely on our results of operations during any particular quarter as an indication of our results for a full year or any other quarter. Ongoing tax audits may result in additional taxes. Reliance and our subsidiaries are undergoing various tax audits. These tax audits could result in additional taxes, plus interest and penalties being assessed against Reliance or any of our subsidiaries and the amounts assessed could be material. Damage to our computer infrastructure and software systems could harm our business. The unavailability of any of our primary information management systems for any significant period of time could have an adverse effect on our operations. In particular, our ability to deliver products to our customers when needed, collect our receivables and manage inventory levels successfully largely depend on the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Through information management systems, we provide inventory availability to our sales and operating personnel, improve customer service through better order and product reference data and monitor operating results. Difficulties associated with upgrades, installations of major software or hardware, and integration with new systems could lead to business interruptions that could harm our reputation, increase our operating costs and decrease our profitability. In addition, these systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage or interruption from power loss, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunications services, operator negligence, physical and electronic loss of data, or security breaches and computer viruses. We have contracted with third-party service providers that provide us with backup systems in the event that our major information management systems are damaged. The backup facilities and other protective measures we take could prove to be inadequate. Our inability to restore data completely and accurately could lead to inaccurate and/or untimely filings of our periodic reports with the SEC, tax filings with the IRS or other required filings, all of which could have a significant negative impact on our corporate reputation and could negatively impact our stock price or result in fines or penalties that could impact our financial results. The value of your investment may be subject to sudden decreases due to the potential volatility of the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including variations in our quarterly results of operations and our leverage 22 Table of Contents position, as well as general economic conditions. Other factors may include matters discussed in other risk factors and the following: •changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors or changes in estimates that we provide in our quarterly earnings release and conference call; •developments affecting our Company, our customers or our suppliers, including general pricing announcements; •changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting our business; •press releases, earnings releases or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in the metals service center industry; •inability to meet securities analysts' and investors' quarterly or annual estimates or targets of our performance; •a decline in our credit rating by the rating agencies; •damage to our corporate reputation; •the operating and stock performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, including steel suppliers that face different hurdles than metals service centers; •ability to maintain our increased dividend rate; •sales of our common stock by large shareholders or insiders; and •general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, stock markets from time to time experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. In the past, some shareholders have brought securities class action lawsuits against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, regardless of whether our defense is ultimately successful, could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. The volatility of the market could result in a material impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. We review the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or whenever significant events or changes in circumstances occur that might impair the recovery of recorded costs. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, declines in the market conditions of our products, loss of key customers, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. An impairment charge, if incurred, could be material. Principal shareholders who own a significant number of shares may have interests that conflict with yours. Periodically, we have one or more shareholders that control 5% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Individually or together, they may have the ability to significantly influence matters requiring shareholder approval. In deciding how to vote on such matters, these shareholders may be influenced by interests that conflict with yours. 23 Table of Contents We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that may adversely impact your rights as a holder of Reliance common stock. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and our bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring Reliance, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock and the rights of our shareholders. We are authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value, with the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such stock to be determined by our board of directors, without a vote of the holders of common stock. Our board of directors could grant rights to holders of preferred stock to reduce the attractiveness of Reliance as a potential takeover target or make the removal of management more difficult. In addition, our restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at shareholder meetings. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. In addition, our credit facility and the provisions of our senior private notes and debt securities contain limitations on our ability to enter into change of control transactions. Risks Related to our Debt Securities Because our senior debt securities and the related guarantees are not secured and are effectively subordinated to the rights of secured creditors, the debt securities and the related guarantees will be subject to the prior claims of any secured creditors, and if a default occurs, we may not have sufficient funds to fulfill our obligations under the debt securities or the related guarantees. The notes and the guarantees are unsecured obligations, ranking equally with other senior unsecured indebtedness. The indenture governing the notes, as well as our credit facility and private placement notes, permit us and the subsidiary guarantors to incur additional secured or unsecured debt under specified circumstances. If we or the subsidiary guarantors incur additional secured debt, our assets and the assets of the subsidiary guarantors securing such debt will be subject to prior claims by our secured creditors. In the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of either Reliance or any of the subsidiary guarantors, assets that secure debt will be available to pay obligations on the notes and guarantees only after all debt secured by those assets has been repaid in full. Holders of the notes will participate in any remaining assets ratably with all of the respective unsecured and unsubordinated creditors of Reliance and the subsidiary guarantors, including trade creditors. If Reliance or any of the subsidiary guarantors incurs any additional unsecured obligations that rank equally with the notes, including trade payables, the holders of those obligations will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the notes in any proceeds distributed as a result of bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up. If we do not have sufficient assets to pay all creditors of these entities, a portion of the notes outstanding would remain unpaid. The guarantees may be unenforceable due to fraudulent conveyance statutes and, accordingly, the holders of our debt securities may not have a claim against the subsidiary guarantors. The obligations of each subsidiary guarantor under its guarantee will be limited as necessary to prevent that guarantee from constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under applicable law. However, a court in some jurisdictions could, under fraudulent conveyance laws, further subordinate or void the guarantee of any subsidiary guarantor if it found that such guarantee was incurred with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors, or such subsidiary guarantor did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for the guarantee and that the subsidiary guarantor was any of the following: insolvent or rendered insolvent because of the guarantee, engaged in a business or transaction 24 Table of Contents for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital, or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts at maturity. If a court were to void the guarantee of a subsidiary guarantor as the result of a fraudulent conveyance, or hold it unenforceable for any other reason, holders of the notes would cease to have a claim against that subsidiary guarantor on its guarantee and would be creditors solely of Reliance and any other subsidiary guarantor whose guarantee is not voided or held to be unenforceable. The guarantees will be released under certain circumstances. The debt securities will be guaranteed by any subsidiary guarantor for so long as such subsidiary guarantor is a borrower or a guarantor of obligations under our credit agreement and our private notes. In the event that, for any reason, the obligations of any subsidiary guarantor terminate as a borrower or guarantor under our credit agreement and our private notes, that subsidiary guarantor will be deemed released from all of its obligations under the indenture and its guarantee of the notes will terminate. A subsidiary guarantor's guarantee will also terminate and such subsidiary guarantor will be deemed released from all of its obligations under the indenture with respect to the notes of a series upon legal defeasance of such series or satisfaction and discharge of the indenture as it relates to such series. A subsidiary guarantor's guarantee will also terminate and such subsidiary guarantor will be deemed released from all of its obligations under the indenture with respect to each series of notes in connection with any sale or other disposition by Reliance of all of the capital stock of that subsidiary guarantor (including by way of merger or consolidation) or other transaction such that after giving effect to such transaction such subsidiary guarantor is no longer a domestic subsidiary of Reliance. If the obligations of any subsidiary guarantor as a guarantor terminate or are released, the risks applicable to our subsidiaries that are not guarantors will also be applicable to such released subsidiary guarantor. We depend on the receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations under the notes. Claims of creditors of our subsidiaries may have priority over your claims with respect to the assets and earnings of our subsidiaries. We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries. We will therefore be dependent upon dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries in order to meet our obligations under the notes and to meet our other obligations. Generally, creditors of our subsidiaries will have claims to the assets and earnings of our subsidiaries that are superior to the claims of our creditors, except to the extent the claims of our creditors are guaranteed by our subsidiaries. All of our wholly owned domestic subsidiaries, which constitute the substantial majority of our subsidiaries, guarantee the notes. As of December 31, 2012, Reliance and the subsidiary guarantors accounted for approximately $5.22 billion, or 89%, of our total consolidated assets. Reliance and the subsidiary guarantors accounted for approximately $7.80 billion, or 92%, of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. If Reliance expands its international presence at a greater pace than it expands its U.S. presence, a smaller percentage of its consolidated assets may be subject to the guarantee obligations. In the event of the bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of Reliance, the holders of our notes may not receive any amounts with respect to the notes until after the payment in full of the claims of creditors of our subsidiaries that are not subsidiary guarantors. We are permitted to incur more debt, which may intensify the risks associated with our current leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt. Subject to certain limitations, our existing credit facility and private notes permit us to incur additional debt. The indenture governing the notes does not limit the amount of additional debt that we may incur. If 25 Table of Contents we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt, will increase. The provisions in the indenture that governs the notes relating to change of control transactions will not necessarily protect the holders of our notes in the event of a highly leveraged transaction. The provisions contained in the indenture will not necessarily afford the holders of our notes protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction that may adversely affect them, including a reorganization, restructuring, merger or other similar transaction involving Reliance. These transactions may not involve a change in voting power or beneficial ownership or, even if they do, may not involve a change of the magnitude required under the definition of change of control repurchase event in the indenture to trigger these provisions, notably, that the transactions are accompanied or followed within 60 days by a downgrade in the rating of the notes. Except in the event of a change of control, the indenture does not contain provisions that permit the holders of the notes to require us to repurchase the notes in the event of a takeover, recapitalization or similar transaction. Reliance may not be able to repurchase all of the notes upon a change of control repurchase event. We will be required to offer to repurchase certain outstanding senior notes upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event as defined in the indenture dated November 20, 2006 (see Exhibit 4.01 incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes in cash at such time or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to repurchase the notes for cash may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. Under the terms of our credit facility, we are prohibited from repurchasing the notes if we are in default under such credit facility. Ratings of our notes may change and affect the market price and marketability of the notes. The notes are rated by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard & Poor's. Such ratings are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in the notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued and subsequently updated or affirmed. An explanation of the significance of such rating may be obtained from such rating agency. There is no assurance that our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. It is also possible that such ratings may be lowered in connection with future events, such as future acquisitions. Holders of our notes have no recourse against us or any other parties in the event of a change in or suspension or withdrawal of such ratings. Any lowering, suspension or withdrawal of such ratings may have an adverse effect on the market price or marketability of the notes. In addition, any decline in the ratings of the notes may make it more difficult for us to raise capital on acceptable terms. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 