Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before purchasing our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We have incurred substantial losses and expect to continue to incur losses. We will not be successful unless we reverse this trend. We have incurred losses in every year since our inception, except for 2002 and 2008 when our recognition of revenues under license and collaboration agreements resulted in our reporting net income for those years. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $341.2 million. We have incurred losses of $81.0 million since January 1, 2001. We also incurred losses of $260.2 million prior to December 31, 2000 during which time we were primarily involved in the development of antisense technology. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity, total assets and working capital. We have never had any products of our own available for commercial sale and have received no revenues from the sale of drugs. To date, almost all of our revenues have been from collaborative and license agreements. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts to research and development, including clinical trials, and we have not completed development of any drugs. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses, whether or when any of our products will become commercially available, or when we will become profitable, if at all. We may incur substantial operating losses in future periods. We will need additional financing, which may be difficult to obtain. Our failure to obtain necessary financing or doing so on unattractive terms could adversely affect our research and development programs and other operations. We will require substantial funds to conduct research and development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of our drug candidates. We will also require substantial funds to conduct regulatory activities and to establish commercial manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities. We believe that, based on our current operating plan, our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our operations at least through December 31, 2010. We will need to raise additional funds to operate our business beyond such time, including completing any on-going clinical trials involving IMO-2125 or other drug candidates we may develop. We believe that the key factors that will affect our ability to obtain additional funding are: • the success of our clinical and preclinical development programs; • the success of our existing strategic collaborations with Merck KGaA, Merck & Co. and Novartis; • the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews; • the receptivity of the capital markets to financings by biotechnology companies; and • our ability to enter into additional strategic collaborations with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and the success of such collaborations. 18 Table of Contents If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may terminate, modify or delay preclinical or clinical trials of one or more of our drug candidates, fail to establish or delay the establishment of manufacturing, sale or marketing capabilities, or curtail research and development programs for new drug candidates. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or may not be available to us on favorable terms. We could be required to seek funds through collaborative alliances or through other means that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, drug candidates or drugs that we would otherwise pursue on our own. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our then existing stockholders will experience dilution. The terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of existing stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends, and are likely to include rights that are senior to the holders of our common stock. Any additional debt financing or equity that we raise may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences, or liens or other restrictions on our assets, which are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we are unable to obtain adequate funding on a timely basis or at all, we may be required to significantly curtail one or more of our discovery or development programs or possibly relinquish rights to portions of our technology, drug candidates and/or products. For example, we significantly curtailed expenditures on our research and development programs during 1999 and 2000 because we did not have sufficient funds available to advance these programs at planned levels. Risks Relating to Our Business, Strategy and Industry We are depending heavily on the success of our lead drug candidate for infectious diseases, IMO-2125, and our collaborative alliances. If we or our collaborators are unable to successfully develop and commercialize our drug candidates, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. We are investing a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of our clinical stage lead drug candidate for infectious diseases, IMO-2125. We anticipate that our ability to generate product revenues will depend heavily on the successful development and commercialization of IMO-2125 and other drug candidates including drug candidates being developed by our collaborators. The commercial success of these drug candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: • acceptable safety profile during clinical trials; • demonstration of statistically recognized efficacy in clinical trials; • ability to combine IMO-2125 safely and successfully with other antiviral agents; • receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities; • establishment of commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers; • the successful commercial launch of the drug candidates, whether alone or in collaboration with other products; • acceptance of the products by the medical community and third-party payors; • competition from other companies and their therapies; • successful protection of our intellectual property rights from competing products in the United States and abroad; and • a continued acceptable safety and efficacy profile of our drug candidates following approval. Our efforts to commercialize IMO-2125 are at an early stage, as we are currently conducting the initial Phase 1 safety clinical trial of this drug candidate in a defined patient population. If we are not successful in commercializing this or our other drug candidates, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. 19 Table of Contents If our clinical trials are unsuccessful, or if they are delayed or terminated, we may not be able to develop and commercialize our products. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our products, we are required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex and expensive processes with uncertain results. We may not be able to complete any clinical trial of a potential product within any specified time period. Moreover, clinical trials may not show our potential products to be both safe and efficacious. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve any of our potential products for any indication. We may not be able to obtain authority from the FDA or other equivalent foreign regulatory agencies to complete these trials or commence and complete any other clinical trials. The results from preclinical testing of a drug candidate that is under development may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. In addition, the results of early human clinical trials may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in larger scale, advanced stage clinical trials. Furthermore, interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results and failure of any of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. Companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including companies with greater experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials than we have, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after demonstrating promising results in earlier trials. Moreover, companies developing drugs targeted to TLRs have experienced setbacks in clinical trials. For example in June 2007, Coley Pharmaceutical Group, which since has been acquired by Pfizer, Inc., discontinued four clinical trials in lung cancer for PF-3512676, its investigational TLR9 agonist compound, in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy. In addition, in January 2007, Coley Pharmaceutical Group announced that it had suspended its development of a TLR9 agonist, Actilon ®, for HCV infection. In July 2007, Anadys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its partner Novartis announced that they had decided to discontinue the development of ANA975, the investigational TLR7 agonist compound for HCV infection. Dynavax Technologies Corporation announced in March 2008 that two investigational new drug applications for its investigational hepatitis B vaccine, HEPLISAV, which includes a proprietary TLR9 agonist, had been placed on clinical hold by the FDA. Dynavax Technologies Corporation also announced in May 2008 discontinuation of the clinical development program for TOLAMBA ®, which comprises a TLR9 agonist covalently attached to ragweed antigen. There are to date few data on the long-term clinical safety of our lead compounds under conditions of prolonged use in humans, or on any long-term consequences subsequent to human use. Effects seen in preclinical studies, even if not observed in clinical trials, may result in limitations or restrictions on our clinical trials. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing, nonclinical testing, or the clinical trial process that could delay or inhibit our ability to receive regulatory approval or to commercialize our products, including: • regulators or Institutional Review Boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • nonclinical or clinical data may not be readily interpreted, which may lead to delays and/or misinterpretation; • our nonclinical tests, including toxicology studies, or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional nonclinical testing or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we expect may not be promising; • the rate of enrollment or retention of patients in our clinical trials may be lower than we expect; • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients experience serious adverse events or undesirable side effects or are exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators or Institutional Review Boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements and any issues identified through inspections of manufacturing or clinical trial operations or clinical trial sites; 20 Table of Contents • regulators may hold or suspend our clinical trials while collecting supplemental information on, or clarification of, our clinical trials or other clinical trials, including trials conducted in other countries or trials conducted by other companies; • we, along with our collaborators and subcontractors, may not employ, in any capacity, persons who have been debarred under the FDA’s Application Integrity Policy. Employment of such debarred persons, even if inadvertent, may result in delays in the FDA’s review or approval of our products, or the rejection of data developed with the involvement of such person(s); • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; and • our products may not cause the desired effects or may cause undesirable side effects or our products may have other unexpected characteristics. As an example, in 1997, after reviewing the results from the clinical trial of GEM91, a first generation antisense compound and our lead drug candidate at the time, we determined not to continue the development of GEM91 and suspended clinical trials of this drug candidate. The rate of completion of clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate of enrollment of patients. For example, in Stage A of our Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-2055 in renal cell cancer, enrollment was slower than projected due to the recent approval of two new therapies, Sutent ® and Nexavar ®, developed by other companies for treatment of the same patient populations. In addition, in our Phase I clinical trial of IMO-2125 in patients with chronic HCV infection, due to the enrollment procedure, completion of each cohort has taken longer than anticipated. Patient accrual is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; • the eligibility criteria for the study; • the nature of the study, including the pattern of patient enrollment; • the existence of competitive clinical trials; and • the availability of alternative treatments. We do not know whether clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant clinical trial delays also could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products. Delays in commencing clinical trials of potential products could increase our costs, delay any potential revenues and reduce the probability that a potential product will receive regulatory approval. Our drug candidates and our collaborators’ drug candidates will require preclinical and other nonclinical testing and extensive clinical trials prior to submission of any regulatory application for commercial sales. In 2007, we commenced a Phase 1b clinical trial of IMO-2055 in oncology, and we commenced a Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-2125 for chronic HCV infection. In 2008, our collaborator Novartis commenced a Phase 1 clinical trial of QAX935, and in 2009 we commenced a second Phase 1b clinical trial of IMO-2055 under our collaboration with Merck KGaA. In conducting clinical trials, we cannot be certain that any planned clinical trial will begin on time, if at all. Delays in commencing clinical trials of potential products could increase our product development costs, delay any potential revenues and reduce the probability that a potential product will receive regulatory approval. Commencing clinical trials may be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays in: • manufacturing sufficient quantities of drug candidate that satisfy the required quality standards for use in clinical trials; • demonstrating sufficient safety to obtain regulatory approval for conducting a clinical trial; • reaching an agreement with any collaborators on all aspects of the clinical trial; 21 Table of Contents • reaching agreement with contract research organizations, if any, and clinical trial sites on all aspects of the clinical trial; • resolving any objections from the FDA or any regulatory authority on an IND application or proposed clinical trial design; • obtaining Institutional Review Board approval for conducting a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • enrolling patients in order to commence the clinical trial. The technologies on which we rely are unproven and may not result in any approved and marketable products. Our technologies or therapeutic approaches are relatively new and unproven. We have focused our efforts on the research and development of RNA- and DNA-based compounds targeted to TLRs. Neither we nor any other company have obtained regulatory approval to market such compounds as therapeutic drugs, and no such products currently are being marketed. It is unknown whether the results of preclinical studies with TLR-targeted compounds will be indicative of results that may be obtained in clinical trials, and results we have obtained in the initial small-scale clinical trials we have conducted to date may not be predictive of results in subsequent large-scale clinical trials. Further, the chemical and pharmacological properties of RNA- and DNA-based compounds targeted to TLRs may not be fully recognized in preclinical studies and small-scale clinical trials, and such compounds may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective, or harmful ways that we have not yet identified. As a result of these factors, we may never succeed in obtaining a regulatory approval to market any product. Furthermore, the commercial success of any of our products for which we may obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third-party payors as clinically useful, safe, and cost-effective. In addition, if products based upon TLR technology being developed by our competitors have negative clinical trial results or otherwise are viewed negatively, the perception of our TLR technology and market acceptance of our products could be impacted negatively. For example, Dynavax Technologies announced in March 2008 that two investigational new drug applications for its investigational hepatitis B vaccine, HEPLISAV, which includes a proprietary TLR9 agonist, had been placed on clinical hold by the FDA. Dynavax Technologies also announced in May 2008 discontinuation of the clinical development program for TOLAMBA, which comprises a TLR9 agonist covalently attached to a ragweed antigen. In addition, Pfizer, Inc. and Anadys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. each have performed early clinical trials of TLR-targeted compounds for the treatment of chronic HCV infection, and both programs have been discontinued. We cannot be certain whether such discontinuations will negatively impact the perception of our TLR technology. Our efforts to educate the medical community on our potentially unique approaches may require greater resources than would be typically required for products based on conventional technologies or therapeutic approaches. The safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of our products as compared to competitive products will also affect market acceptance. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing drugs before or more successfully than us. The biotechnology industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid and significant technological change. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies. Some of these organizations are pursuing products based on technologies similar to our technologies. Other of these organizations have developed and are marketing products, or are pursuing other technological approaches designed to produce products, that are competitive with our drug candidates in the therapeutic effect these competitive products have on diseases targeted by our drug candidates. Our competitors may discover, develop or commercialize products or other novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than any that we are developing. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. As examples, the FDA recently approved drugs developed by other companies, Sutent and Nexavar for use in renal cell cancer, which is the indication for which we are evaluating IMO-2055 monotherapy in our Phase 2 clinical trial. Pfizer, Inc., is conducting clinical trials of PF-3512676, a TLR9 agonist for treating cancer. In addition, Dynavax 22 Table of Contents Technologies Corporation has announced initiation of a clinical trial for its TLR9 agonist 1018 ISS for cancer. Both Pfizer, Inc., and Dynavax Technologies Corporation have clinical programs, either independently or with collaborators, in therapeutic fields other than cancer, such as asthma and allergy treatments and for use as vaccine adjuvants, that also potentially compete with our drug candidates. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities than we have. In addition, many of our competitors are more experienced than we are in drug discovery, development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals, and drug manufacturing and marketing. We anticipate that the competition with our products and technologies will be based on a number of factors including product efficacy, safety, availability, and price. The timing of market introduction of our products and competitive products will also affect competition among products. We expect the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical trials, and approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market to be important competitive factors. Our competitive position will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, to obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes, and protect our intellectual property, and to secure sufficient capital resources for the period between technological conception and commercial sales. Competition for technical and management personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be able to sustain our operations or grow if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our success is highly dependent on the retention of principal members of our technical and management staff, including Dr. Sudhir Agrawal. Dr. Agrawal serves as our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Agrawal has made significant contributions to the field of oligonucleotide-based drug candidates, and has led the discovery and development of our compounds targeted to TLRs. He is named as an inventor on over 400 patents and patent applications worldwide. Dr. Agrawal provides us leadership for management, research and development activities. The loss of Dr. Agrawal’s services would be detrimental to our ongoing scientific progress and the execution of our business plan. We are a party to an employment agreement with Dr. Agrawal that expires on October 19, 2011, but automatically extends annually for an additional year. This agreement may be terminated by us or Dr. Agrawal for any reason or no reason at any time upon notice to the other party. We do not carry key man life insurance for Dr. Agrawal. Furthermore, our future growth will require hiring a number of qualified technical and management personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we are not able to continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or growth. Regulatory Risks We may not be able to obtain marketing approval for products resulting from our development efforts. All of the drug candidates that we are developing or may develop in the future will require additional research and development, extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials, and regulatory approval prior to any commercial sales. This process is lengthy, often taking a number of years, is uncertain, and is expensive. Since our inception, we have conducted clinical trials of a number of compounds. Currently, we are conducting clinical trials of IMO-2125 as part of our internal programs and IMO-2055 on behalf of Merck KGaA. We may need to address a number of technological challenges in order to complete development of our products. Moreover, these products may not be effective in treating any disease or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, unintended alteration of the immune system over time, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to comprehensive regulatory requirements, which are costly and time consuming to comply with; if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to adverse consequences and penalties. The testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, export and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in Europe, the United States and elsewhere throughout the world. In general, submission of materials requesting permission to conduct clinical trials may not result in authorization by the FDA or any equivalent foreign regulatory agency to commence clinical trials. Further, permission to continue ongoing trials may be withdrawn by the FDA or other regulatory agencies at any time after initiation, based on new information available after the initial authorization to commence clinical trials. In addition, submission of an application for marketing approval to the relevant regulatory agency following completion of clinical trials may not result in the regulatory agency approving the application if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, and may result in the regulatory agency requiring additional testing or information. Any regulatory approval of a product may contain limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the facilities at which the product is manufactured, any post-approval clinical data, and any advertising and promotional activities for the product will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Both before and after approval is obtained, violations of regulatory requirements may result in: • the regulatory agency’s delay in approving, or refusal to approve, an application for marketing of a product; • restrictions on our products or the manufacturing of our products; • withdrawal of our products from the market; • warning letters; • voluntary or mandatory recall; • fines; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • product seizure; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • injunctions or the imposition of civil penalties; and • criminal penalties. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs and our products are based on new technologies; these factors may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We have only limited experience in filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. Moreover, the products that result from our research and development programs will likely be based on new technologies and new therapeutic approaches that have not been extensively tested in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these types of products may be more rigorous than for conventional drugs. As a result, we may experience a longer regulatory process in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals of any product that we develop. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Collaborators We need to establish additional collaborative alliances in order to succeed. If we do not reach agreements with additional collaborators in the future, we may fail to meet our business objectives. We believe collaborations can provide us with expertise and resources. If we cannot enter into additional collaboration agreements, we may not be able to obtain the expertise and resources necessary to achieve our business objectives. We face, and will continue to face, significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaborations are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements. The terms of any collaborations or other arrangements that we establish, if any, may not be favorable to us. The failure of these collaborative alliances could delay our drug development or impair commercialization of our products and could materially harm our business and might accelerate our need for additional capital. Any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful. The success of our collaborative alliances, if any, will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Possible future collaborations have risks, including the following: • disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with future collaborators; • disagreements with future collaborators could delay or terminate the research, development or commercialization of products, or result in litigation or arbitration; • future collaboration agreements are likely to be for fixed terms and subject to termination by our collaborators in the event of a material breach or lack of scientific progress by us; • future collaborators are likely to have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights and, although we would likely have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if our collaborators do not, our ability to do so may be compromised by our collaborators’ acts or omissions; • future collaborators may challenge our intellectual property rights or utilize our intellectual property rights in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property rights or expose us to potential liability; • future collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of our products to reach their potential could be limited if future collaborators decrease or fail to increase spending relating to such products; • future collaborators may underfund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or development of our products; and • future collaborators may develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, or encounter conflicts of interest or changes in business strategy or other business issues, which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us. Given these risks, it is possible that any collaborative alliance into which we enter may not be successful. Our existing collaborations and any collaborations we enter into in the future may not be successful. An important element of our business strategy includes entering into collaborative alliances with corporate collaborators, primarily large pharmaceutical companies, for the development, commercialization, marketing, and distribution of some of our drug candidates. In December 2007, we entered into an exclusive, worldwide license agreement with Merck KGaA to research, develop, and commercialize products containing our TLR9 agonists for treatment of cancer, excluding cancer vaccines. In December 2006, we entered into an exclusive license and 25 Table of Contents research collaboration with Merck & Co. to research, develop, and commercialize vaccine products containing our TLR7, 8, and 9 agonists in the fields of cancer, infectious diseases, and Alzheimer’s disease. In May 2005, we entered into a collaboration with Novartis to discover, develop and potentially commercialize TLR9 agonists that are identified as potential treatments for asthma and allergies. The failure of these collaborations or any others we enter into in the future could delay our drug development or impair commercialization of our products and could materially harm our business and might accelerate our need for additional capital. The success of our collaborative alliances, if any, will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Our existing collaborations have risks, including the following: • our collaborators control the development of the drug candidates being developed with our technologies and compounds including the timing of development; • our collaborators may control the public release of information regarding the developments, and we may not be able to make announcements or data presentations on a schedule favorable to us; • disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our collaborators; • disagreements with our collaborators could delay or terminate the research, development or commercialization of products, or result in litigation or arbitration; • we may have difficulty enforcing the contracts if any of our collaborators fail to perform; • our collaborators may terminate their collaborations with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or adversely affect the perception of us in the business or financial communities; • our collaboration agreements are likely to be for fixed terms and subject to termination by our collaborators in the event of a material breach or lack of scientific progress by us; • our collaborators may have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights and, although we would likely have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if our collaborators do not, our ability to do so may be compromised by our collaborators’ acts or omissions; • our collaborators may utilize our intellectual property rights in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property rights or expose us to potential liability; • our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of our products to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborators decrease or fail to increase spending relating to such products; • our collaborators may underfund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or development of our products; and • our collaborators may develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, or encounter conflicts of interest or changes in business strategy or other business issues, which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us. Collaborations with pharmaceutical companies and other third parties often are terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. Such terminations or expirations may adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation in the event we elect to pursue collaborations that ultimately expire or are terminated in such a manner. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain patent protection for our discoveries, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. Our patent positions, and those of other drug discovery companies, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific, and factual questions. Our ability to develop and commercialize drugs depends in significant part on our ability to: • obtain patents; • obtain licenses to the proprietary rights of others on commercially reasonable terms; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights; and • protect trade secrets. We do not know whether any of our patent applications or those patent applications that we license will result in the issuance of any patents. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted thereunder may not provide us proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing, and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage provided by the patent. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications and require us to seek licenses, which could increase our development and commercialization costs, or prevent us from developing or marketing products. We may not have rights under some patents or patent applications related to our products. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. Therefore, in some cases, to develop, manufacture, sell or import some of our products, we or our collaborators may choose to seek, or be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents issued in the United States and abroad or under patents that might issue from United States and foreign patent applications. In such an event, we would be required to pay license fees or royalties or both to the licensor. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we or our collaborators may not be able to develop, manufacture, sell or import these products. We may lose our rights to patents, patent applications or technologies of third parties if our licenses from these third parties are terminated. In such an event, we might not be able to develop or commercialize products covered by the licenses. Currently, we have not in-licensed any patents or patent applications related to our TLR-targeted drug candidate programs. However in the field of antisense technology we are party to six royalty-bearing license agreements under which we have acquired rights to patents, patent applications and technology of third parties. Under these licenses we are obligated to pay royalties on net sales by us of products or processes covered by a valid claim of a patent or patent application licensed to us. We also are required in some cases to pay a specified percentage of any sublicense income that we may receive. These licenses impose various commercialization, sublicensing, insurance and other obligations on us. 27 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in termination of the licenses. These licenses generally will otherwise remain in effect until the expiration of all valid claims of the patents covered by such licenses or upon earlier termination by the parties. The issued patents covered by these licenses expire at various dates ranging from 2014 to 2022. If one or more of these licenses is terminated, we may be delayed in our efforts, or be unable, to develop and market the products that are covered by the applicable license or licenses. We may become involved in expensive patent litigation or other proceedings, which could result in our incurring substantial costs and expenses or substantial liability for damages or require us to stop our development and commercialization efforts. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology industry. We may become a party to various types of patent litigation or other proceedings regarding intellectual property rights from time to time even under circumstances where we are not practicing and do not intend to practice any of the intellectual property involved in the proceedings. For instance, in 2002, 2003, and 2005, we became involved in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office for certain of our antisense and ribozyme patents. All of these interferences have since been resolved. We are neither practicing nor intending to practice the intellectual property that is associated with any of these interference proceedings. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. If any patent litigation or other proceeding is resolved against us, we or our collaborators may be enjoined from developing, manufacturing, selling or importing our drugs without a license from the other party and we may be held liable for significant damages. We may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Risks Relating to Product Manufacturing, Marketing and Sales and Reliance on Third Parties Because we have limited manufacturing experience, facilities or infrastructure, we are dependent on third-party manufacturers to manufacture products for us. If we cannot rely on third-party manufacturers, we will be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to establish our own manufacturing facilities and capabilities. We have limited manufacturing experience and no manufacturing facilities, infrastructure or clinical or commercial scale manufacturing capabilities. In order to continue to develop our products, apply for regulatory approvals and ultimately commercialize products, we need to develop, contract for or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. We currently rely upon third parties to produce material for nonclinical, preclinical and clinical testing purposes and expect to continue to do so in the future. We also expect to rely upon third parties to produce materials that may be required for the commercial production of our products. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our drug candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop drug candidates and commercialize any drug candidates on a timely and competitive basis. We currently do not have any long term supply contracts and rely on only one contract manufacturer. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s cGMP regulations capable of manufacturing our products. As a result, we may have difficulty finding manufacturers for our products with adequate capacity for our needs. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing of our products on a timely basis, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of our products or market them. 28 Table of Contents Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including: • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; • the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us; • the potential that third-party manufacturers will develop know-how owned by such third party in connection with the production of our products that is necessary for the manufacture of our products; and • reliance upon third-party manufacturers to assist us in preventing inadvertent disclosure or theft of our proprietary knowledge. Additionally, contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our TLR-targeted drug candidates at a cost or in quantities necessary to make them commercially viable. To date, our third-party manufacturers have met our manufacturing requirements, but we cannot be assured that they will continue to do so. Furthermore, changes in the manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where the drug is manufactured or a change of a third-party manufacturer, may require prior FDA review and approval in accordance with the FDA’s cGMP regulations. There are comparable foreign requirements. This review may be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a product. The FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies at any time may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards for manufacture, packaging or testing of products. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to comply, we or they may be subject to regulatory action, civil actions or penalties. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. If we receive regulatory approval to commence commercial sales of any of our products, we will face competition with respect to commercial sales, marketing and distribution. These are areas in which we have no experience. To market any of our products directly, we would need to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capability. In particular, we would need to recruit a large number of experienced marketing and sales personnel. Alternatively, we could engage a pharmaceutical or other healthcare company with an existing distribution system and direct sales force to assist us. However, to the extent we entered into such arrangements, we would be dependent on the efforts of third parties. If we are unable to establish sales and distribution capabilities, whether internally or in reliance on third parties, our business would suffer materially. If third parties on whom we rely for clinical trials do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our products and our business may suffer. We do not have the ability to independently conduct the clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approval for our products. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers in the conduct of the clinical trials of our products and expect to continue to do so. We have contracted with contract research organizations to manage our current Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-2125 in patients with chronic HCV infection. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials, but do not control many aspects of their activities. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of clinical trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and 29 Table of Contents commercialization of our products. If we seek to conduct any of these activities ourselves in the future, we will need to recruit appropriately trained personnel and add to our infrastructure. The commercial success of any drug candidates that we may develop will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community. Any products that we ultimately bring to the market, if they receive marketing approval, may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenue and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our drug candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • the prevalence and severity of any side effects, including any limitations or warnings contained in the product’s approved labeling; • the efficacy and potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer our drug candidates for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; • the strength of marketing and distribution support and the timing of market introduction of competitive products; and • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments. Even if a potential product displays a favorable efficacy and safety profile, market acceptance of the product will not be known until after it is launched. Our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our drug candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. Such efforts to educate the marketplace may require more resources than are required by conventional technologies marketed by our competitors. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors for any products that we may develop or acceptable prices for those products, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Most patients rely on Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurers, and other third-party payors to pay for their medical needs, including any drugs we may market. If third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage or reimbursement for any products that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Congress enacted a limited prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients in the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003. While the program established by this statute may increase demand for our products, if we participate in this program, our prices will be negotiated with drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries and are likely to be lower than we might otherwise obtain. Non-Medicare third-party drug procurement organizations may also base the price they are willing to pay on the rate paid by drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries. A primary trend in the United States healthcare industry is toward cost containment. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our drug candidates or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in commercialization of our products. These further clinical trials would require additional time, resources and expenses. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our prospects for generating revenue, if any, could be adversely affected and our business may suffer. 30 Table of Contents Third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly-approved healthcare products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products that we may develop. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues to us. We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of human therapeutic drugs. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our drug candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims and product recalls may result in: • decreased demand for our drug candidates and products; • damage to our reputation; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs to defend related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or patients, including awards that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then have to pay using other sources, if available, and would damage our ability to obtain liability insurance at reasonable costs, or at all, in the future; • loss of revenue; • the diversion of management’s attention away from managing our business; and • the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is adequate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities. If we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our commercialization efforts. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our corporate governance structure, including provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law, may prevent a change in control or management that stockholders may consider desirable. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company or discourage a third party from attempting to take over our company. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors, • limitations on the removal of directors, • limitations on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders, • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings, and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. 31 Table of Contents In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on our ability to engage in business combinations and other specified transactions with significant stockholders. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our stock price has been and may in the future be extremely volatile. In addition, because an active trading market for our common stock has not developed, our investors’ ability to trade our common stock may be limited. As a result, investors may lose all or a significant portion of their investment. Our stock price has been volatile. During the period from January 1, 2007 to March 9, 2009, the closing sales price of our common stock ranged from a high of $15.41 per share to a low of $4.66 per share. The stock market has also experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, particularly within the past year, and the market prices of biotechnology companies in particular have been highly volatile, often for reasons that have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • results of clinical trials of our drug candidates or those of our competitors; • the regulatory status of our drug candidates; • failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • the success of competitive products or technologies; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • our success in entering into collaborative agreements; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • the departure of key personnel; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • our cash resources; • the terms of any financing conducted by us; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, our common stock has historically been traded at low volume levels and may continue to trade at low volume levels. As a result, any large purchase or sale of our common stock could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock and it may be difficult for investors to sell our common stock in the market without depressing the market price for the common stock or at all. As a result of the foregoing, investors may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for such shares. Investors in our common stock must be willing to bear the risk of fluctuations in the price of our common stock and the risk that the value of their investment in our stock could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 32 Table of Contents 