Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected by known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. Any of these risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause the Company's future financial results to differ materially from recent financial results or from currently anticipated future financial results. In addition to those noted elsewhere in this report, the Company is subject to the following risks and uncertainties: Our markets are cyclical, leading to periodic declines in sales. The markets in which we sell our products are cyclical and have experienced periodic declines. Our sales are, therefore, unpredictable and tend to fluctuate based on a number of factors, including economic conditions and developments affecting the aerospace industry and the customers served. Although the market for our products sold for new commercial aircraft production currently appears to be experiencing a slight improvement, any downturn in commercial aircraft production could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent on a limited number of customers, which makes us vulnerable to the continued relationship with and financial health of those customers. Because a substantial portion of our business has been as a supplier to government contractors, we depend on a limited number of customers with which we do significant amounts of business. Our future prospects will depend on the continued business of such customers and on our continued status as a qualified supplier to such customers. We cannot guarantee that our current significant customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels. The loss of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on us. We compete with many companies that have greater financial, technical and operating resources than we do, and with whom we may not be able to compete successfully. We compete with many companies in the sale of ablative and structural composite products. The markets we serve are specialized and competitive. Several of our competitors have greater financial, technical and operating resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to manufacture and sell our products profitably in competitive markets. Our products and processes are subject to risks from changes in technology. Our products and processes are subject to risks of obsolescence as a result of changes in technology. To address this risk, we invest in product design and development, and in capital expenditures. We cannot guarantee that our product design and development efforts will be successful, or that the amounts of money required to be invested for product design and development and capital expenditures will not increase materially in the future. Goodwill could be impaired in the future. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" and SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets," we assess the fair value and recoverability of our long-lived assets, including goodwill. We make assessments whenever events and circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows expected to result from the asset's use and eventual disposition. In doing so, we make assumptions and estimates regarding future cash flows and other factors to make our determination. The fair value of our long-lived assets and goodwill is dependent upon the forecasted performance of our business and the overall economic environment. When we determine that the carrying value of our long-lived assets and goodwill may not be recoverable, we measure any impairment based upon a forecasted discounted cash flow method. If these forecasts are not met, we may have to record additional impairment charges not previously recognized. In assessing the recoverability of our goodwill at December 31, 2005, we were required to make certain critical estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions included that during the next several years we would make improvements in manufacturing efficiency, achieve reductions in operating costs, and obtain increases in sales and backlog. If any of these or other estimates and assumptions are not realized in the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment charge for the goodwill. The goodwill of the Company was $2,521,000 at December 31, 2005. Significant consolidation in the aerospace industry could adversely affect our business and financial results. The aerospace industry is experiencing significant consolidation, including among our customers, competitors and suppliers. Consolidation among our customers may result in delays in the award of new contracts and losses of existing business. Consolidation among our competitors may result in larger competitors with greater resources and market share, which could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully. Consolidation among our suppliers may result in fewer sources of supply and increased cost to us. Our manufacturing operations may be adversely affected by the availability and increases in prices of raw materials and components. The failure of our suppliers to deliver on a timely basis raw materials and components to us, and increases in the prices of raw materials, may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The supply of rayon used to make carbon fiber cloth typically used in ablative composites is highly dependent upon the qualification of the rayon supplier by the United States Department of Defense. North American Rayon has ceased production of the rayon used in our ablative products. This could have an effect on the rayon supply in the coming years. Also, a European company has become the world's sole supplier of graphite and carbon used in our ablative applications. We cannot assure you that these developments will not have a significant impact on price or supply. Product liability claims in excess of insurance could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. We face potential liability for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of products designed or manufactured by us. Although we maintain product liability insurance, any material product liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Damage or destruction of our facilities caused by earthquake or other causes could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. Although we maintain standard property casualty insurance covering our properties, we do not carry any earthquake insurance because of the cost of such insurance. Our main property is located in California, an area subject to frequent and sometimes severe earthquake activity. Even if covered by insurance, any significant damage or destruction of our facilities could result in the inability to meet customer delivery schedules and may result in the loss of customers and significant additional costs to us. As a result, any significant damage or destruction of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 