Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company operates in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect our operations. Additional risks we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The market for athletic footwear is intensely competitive and if we fail to compete effectively, we could lose our market position and our business could be harmed. The athletic footwear industry is intensely competitive. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial, distribution and marketing resources as well as greater brand awareness than us. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. Further, a major marketing or promotional success or technological innovation by one of our competitors could adversely impact our competitive position. In addition, the availability of overseas manufacturing opportunities and capacity more readily allows for the introduction of competitors with new products. In countries where the athletic footwear market is mature, our ability to maintain and increase our market share can principally come at the expense of our competitors, which may be difficult to accomplish. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely impacted by our competitors and the competitive pressures in the athletic footwear industry. We believe our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors, including anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, maintaining brand reputation and authenticity, developing high quality products that appeal to consumers, appropriately pricing our products, providing strong and effective marketing support, ensuring product availability and maintaining and effectively assessing our distribution channels, as well as many other factors beyond our control. Because many of these factors are not within our control, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share, and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, each of which would adversely affect our business. The athletic footwear business is subject to consumer preferences and unanticipated shifts in consumer preferences that could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The athletic footwear industry is subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences. Consumer demand for athletic footwear and apparel is heavily influenced by brand image. Our initiatives to strengthen our brand image, which include conducting market research, introducing new and innovative products and initiating focused advertising campaigns, may not be successful. Our current 11 Table of Contents products may not continue to be popular and new products we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. Our failure to anticipate, identify and react to shifts in consumer preferences and maintain a strong brand image could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Also, if our customers purchase our products and do not have success in selling our products at retail, they may request a return or price adjustment to assist them in marking down the selling price to make the products more attractive to retail consumers. Purchasing patterns are influenced by consumers’ disposable income, which is affected by economic conditions. Consumer purchasing patterns are influenced by consumers’ disposable income. Consequently, the success of our operations may depend to a significant extent upon a number of factors affecting disposable income, including general economic conditions, level of employment, salaries and wage rates, consumer confidence, consumer perception of economic conditions, interest rates and taxation. Many of these factors are outside of our control and may have a negative impact on our sales and margins. The consumer environment has been particularly challenging over the last several years. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets could further reduce consumer income, liquidity, credit and confidence in the economy and result in further reductions in consumer spending. Further deterioration of the consumer spending environment may result in reduced demand for our products, which would be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. If we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience difficulties in handling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventories and our sales and brand image may be adversely affected. The athletic footwear industry has relatively long lead times for the design and production of products. Consequently, we must commit to production tooling, and in some cases to production, in advance of orders based on our forecasts of consumer demand. The current economic downturn makes it increasingly difficult for us to accurately forecast product demand trends. If we fail to forecast consumer demand accurately, we may under-produce or over-produce our products. If we under-produce our products, we may experience inventory shortages which might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, negatively impact our sales results and diminish brand awareness. Conversely, if we over-produce our products based on an aggressive forecast of consumer demand, retailers may not be able to sell the product and may seek to return the unsold quantities and cancel future orders. These outcomes could have an adverse effect on our sales and brand image. Our current backlog of open orders may not be indicative of our level of future sales. Our “futures” program allows our customers to order our products five months or more prior to delivery of product. Our current backlog position may not be indicative of future sales. The mix of “futures” and “at-once” orders can vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year and therefore “futures” are not necessarily indicative of revenues for subsequent periods. Orders may be cancelled by customers without financial penalty. Customers may also reject nonconforming goods. If we experience adverse developments in customer cancellations, product returns or bad debts of customers, such developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delay and increase costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by us in our manufactured products and in the price of materials used to manufacture our footwear could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, such as oil and electricity, increased freight costs, increased labor costs and weather conditions. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to our customers. The loss of a significant customer, or a significant reduction in our sales to such a customer, could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. While no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues in 2009, we do have significant customers. The loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in our sales to any of such customers, could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, if any of such customers became insolvent or otherwise failed to pay its debts, it could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Our financial success is limited to the success of our customers. Our financial success is directly related to the success of our customers and the willingness and financial resources of our customers to continue to buy our products. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. Sales to our customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by our customers. If any of these customers experience a significant downturn in its business, insolvency, difficulty in obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products or fail to remain committed to our products or brands, then these customers may defer, reduce, cancel or discontinue purchases from us and/or fail to meet their payment obligations to us. Such conditions could decrease our revenues, or cause higher accounts receivables, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts or increased bad debt expense, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we decrease the price that we charge for our products, we may earn lower gross margins and our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. The prices we are able to charge for our products depend on the type of product offered, the consumer and retailer response to the product and the prices charged by our competitors. To the extent that we are forced to lower our prices, our gross margins will be lower and our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our business is subject to economic conditions in our major markets. Consequently, adverse changes in economic conditions could have a negative effect on our business. Our business is subject to economic conditions that may fluctuate in the major markets in which we operate. Factors that could cause economic conditions to fluctuate include, without limitation, recession, inflation, higher interest borrowing rates, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, general weakness in retail markets and changes in consumer purchasing power and preferences. Significant volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets and an economic downturn in 2008 and 2009 have resulted in a tightening of business credit and liquidity, a contraction 13 Table of Contents of consumer credit, business failures, increased unemployment and declines in consumer confidence and spending. If global economic and financial market conditions remain weak for an extended period of time, any of the following factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations: • slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from customers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins; • continued volatility in the global markets and fluctuations in exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could negatively impact our reported financial results and condition; • continued volatility in the prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and ultimately our profitability; • if our customers experience declining revenues, or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of customers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense; • a severe financial difficulty experienced by our customers may cause them to become insolvent or cease business operations, which could reduce the availability of our products to consumers; and • any difficulty or inability on the part of manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain in obtaining sufficient financing to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. Our international sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, which could affect our ability to sell or manufacture our products in international markets, obtain products from foreign suppliers or control the cost of our products. We operate offices and sell products in numerous countries outside the United States. In recent years, our percentage of revenue earned from international markets has increased. Additionally, all of our footwear products are manufactured abroad and we have suppliers located in China, Thailand and Taiwan. Our athletic footwear sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. These risks include: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • political instability; • limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars; • restrictions on dividend payments and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries and other restrictions on transfers of funds to or from foreign countries; • import duties, tariffs, regulations, quotas and other restrictions on free trade, particularly as these regulations may affect our operations in China; and • investment regulation and other restrictions by foreign governments. If these risks limit or prevent us from selling or manufacturing products in any significant international market, prevent us from acquiring products from our foreign suppliers or significantly increase the cost of our products, our operations could be seriously disrupted until alternative suppliers 14 Table of Contents are found or alternative markets are developed. Although we enter into certain forward currency exchange contracts to hedge the risk of exchange rate fluctuations, these steps may not fully protect us against this risk and we may incur losses. The potential imposition of additional duties, quotas, tariffs and other trade restrictions could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability. All of the products we manufacture overseas and import into the United States, the European Union and other countries are subject to shipment inspections, audits and customs duties collected by customs authorities. Customs information submitted by the Company is routinely subject to review by customs authorities. Further, additional U.S. or foreign inspections, audits, customs duties, quotas, tariffs, anti-dumping duties, safeguard measures, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism or other trade restrictions may be imposed on the importation of our products in the future. The imposition of such restrictions in foreign countries where we operate, as well as in countries where our third party distributors and licensees operate, could result in increases in the costs of our products generally and could, as a result, adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our financial position, cash flow or results may be adversely affected by the threat of terrorism and related political instability and economic uncertainty. The threat of potential terrorist attacks on the United States and throughout the world and political instability has created an atmosphere of economic uncertainty in the United States and in foreign markets. Our results may be impacted by the macroeconomic effects of those events. Also, a disruption in our supply chain as a result of terrorist attacks or the threat thereof may significantly affect our business and its prospects. In addition, such events may also result in heightened domestic security and higher costs for importing and exporting shipments of components and finished goods. Any of these occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flow or results in any reporting period. Because we rely on independent manufacturers to produce our products, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if our independent manufacturers fail to meet pricing, product quality and timeliness requirements or if we are unable to obtain some components used in our products from limited supply sources or experience supply chain disruptions. We depend upon independent manufacturers to manufacture our products in a timely and cost-efficient manner while maintaining specified quality standards. We also compete with other larger companies for production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. We rely heavily on manufacturing facilities located in China. In 2009, approximately 78% of our footwear manufacturing occurred in China. We also rely upon the availability of sufficient production capacity at our manufacturers. Timely delivery of product may be impacted by factors such as weather conditions, disruption of the transportation systems or shipping lines used by our suppliers, or uncontrollable factors such as natural disasters, epidemic diseases, terrorism and war. It is essential that our manufacturers deliver our products in a timely manner and in accordance with our quality standards because our orders may be cancelled by customers if agreed-upon delivery windows are not met or products are not of agreed-upon quality. A failure by one or more of our manufacturers to meet established criteria for pricing, product quality or timely delivery could adversely impact our sales and profitability. 15 Table of Contents Because a large portion of our imported products are manufactured in China, our profitability may be adversely affected if the United States government takes action against China for its concern over the level of intellectual property rights protection and enforcements available in China. We rely heavily on manufacturing facilities located in China. The United States government has expressed serious concern over the level of intellectual property rights protection and enforcement available in China and the United States Trade Representative has in turn included China on its Priority Watch List. If the United States government takes action against China for its failure to adequately protect intellectual property rights, the result of that action could, among other things, include the imposition of trade sanctions that could affect the ability of the Company to continue to import products from China, which in turn could affect the costs of products purchased and sold by the Company and lead to a decline in the Company’s profitability. Our competitive position could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. Counterfeiting of our brands can divert sales and damage our brand image. We believe that our trademarks, patents and proprietary technologies and designs are of great value. From time to time third parties have challenged, and may, in the future, try to challenge our ownership or the validity of our intellectual property. A successful challenge to any of our significant intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business and ability to generate revenue. Our brands and designs are constantly at risk for counterfeiting and infringement of our intellectual property rights, especially in China where a large portion of our imported products are manufactured, and we find counterfeit products and products that infringe on our intellectual property rights in our markets as well as domain names that use our trade names or trademarks without our consent. We have not always been successful, particularly in some foreign countries, in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringements or other misappropriation of our intellectual property rights. Counterfeit and infringing products can cause us to lose significant sales and can also harm the integrity of our brands by associating our trademarks or designs with lesser quality or defective goods. Additionally, the scope of protection of our proprietary intellectual property rights can vary significantly from country to country, and can be quite narrow in some countries because of local law or practices. This is especially the case in China where the United States government has elevated China to its Priority Watch List, as discussed above. We may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. This litigation could result in substantial costs and may require the devotion of substantial resources. We rely on our warehouses and if there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at any of these facilities, we may be unable to deliver product effectively to our customers. We rely on warehouses in Mira Loma, California and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. We also rely on the timely performance of services provided by third parties (i.e. Netherlands public distribution facility, freight delivery carriers) at these facilities. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption at either of these facilities due to fire, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack or any other natural or manmade cause could damage a portion of our inventory or impair our ability to use our warehouse as a docking location for product. Any of these occurrences could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers and negatively impact our operating results. We depend on independent distributors to sell our products in certain international markets. We sell our products in certain international markets mainly through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption and loss of sales. 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings and may be affected by changes in government regulations. From time to time we may be a party to lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that we devote substantial resources to defend the Company. Further, changes in government regulations both in the United States and in the countries in which we operate could have adverse affects on our business and subject us to additional regulatory actions. Our net income may be adversely affected by an increase in our effective tax rate. At any point in time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with tax authorities may affect tax positions taken by us. Additionally, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the geographic mix or level of earnings. We have not recorded United States income tax expense on earnings of selected foreign subsidiary companies as these are intended to be permanently invested, thus reducing our overall income tax expense. The amount of earnings designated as permanently invested is based upon our expectations of the future cash needs of our subsidiaries. Income tax considerations are also a factor in determining the amount of earnings to be permanently invested. Because the declaration involves our future plans and expectations of future events, the possibility exists that amounts declared as permanently invested may ultimately be repatriated. This would result in additional income tax expense in the year we determined that amounts were no longer permanently invested which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel, whose loss would adversely impact our business. Our success is largely dependent upon the efforts of Steven Nichols, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, and certain other key executives. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Nichols that expires in December 2010, the loss of his and/or other key executive’s services would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success also depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our personnel. Our continued success will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, marketing, technical and sales personnel. These people are in high demand and often have competing employment opportunities. The labor market for skilled employees is highly competitive due to limited supply, and we may lose key employees or be forced to increase their compensation. Employee turnover could significantly increase our training and other related employee costs. The loss of the services of any key personnel or our inability to attract additional personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. A limited number of our stockholders can exert significant influence over the Company. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Steven Nichols, held approximately 92.7% of the voting power of our Class B Common Stock taken as a whole and approximately 69.3% of total voting power. This voting power permits Mr. Nichols to exert significant influence over the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of a certain class of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. 17 Table of Contents We depend on our computer and communications systems. We extensively utilize computer and communications systems to operate our Internet business and manage our internal operations including without limitation, demand and supply planning, and inventory control. Any interruption of this service from power loss, telecommunications failure, failure of our computer system or other interruption caused by weather, natural disasters or any similar event could disrupt our operations and result in lost sales. In addition, hackers and computer viruses have disrupted operations at many major companies. We may be vulnerable to similar acts of sabotage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We rely on our management information systems to operate our business and to track our operating results. Our management information systems will require modification and refinement as our business needs change. If we experience a significant system failure or if we are unable to modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, then our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. During 2008 and early 2009, we completed our implementation of the SAP information management software in a majority of our worldwide operations. During the next several years, we will continue to rollout various modules of SAP that were not implemented during our initial worldwide implementation. We may encounter computer and operational complications in connection with maintaining and implementing the SAP information system that could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 