Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company operates in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect our operations. Additional risks we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risk Related to the Company’s Business The market for athletic footwear is intensely competitive and if we fail to compete effectively, we could lose our market position and our business could be harmed. The athletic footwear industry is intensely competitive, especially with respect to product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, cost of production and customer service. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial, distribution and marketing resources as well as greater brand awareness than us. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. Further, a major marketing or promotional success or technological innovation by one of our competitors could adversely impact our competitive position. In addition, the availability of overseas manufacturing opportunities and capacity more readily allows for the introduction of competitors with new products. In countries where the athletic footwear market is mature, it may be difficult for us to maintain or increase our market share as doing so may require us to overcome or dislodge the competitive position of one or more of our competitors, a task which may be difficult to accomplish. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely impacted by our competitors and the competitive pressures in the athletic footwear industry. We believe our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors, including anticipating and responding to changing consumer preferences, demographics and demands in a timely manner, maintaining brand reputation and authenticity, performance and product reliability, developing high quality products that appeal to consumers, appropriately pricing our products, providing strong and effective marketing support, ensuring product availability, providing quality customer service, adopting new technologies, maintaining and effectively assessing our distribution channels, and anticipating and responding to actions by our competitors, as well as many other factors beyond our control. Because many of these factors are not within our control, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share, and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, each of which would adversely affect our business. The athletic footwear business is subject to consumer preferences and unanticipated shifts in consumer preferences could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The athletic footwear industry is subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences. Consumer demand for athletic footwear and apparel is heavily influenced by brand image. Our initiatives to strengthen our brand image, which include conducting market research, introducing new and innovative products and initiating focused advertising campaigns, may not be successful. Our current products have declined in popularity over the past years and new products we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. Our failure to anticipate, identify and react to shifts in consumer preferences and maintain a strong brand image could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Also, if our customers purchase our products and do not have success in selling our products at retail, they may request a return or price adjustment to assist them in marking down the selling price to make the products more attractive to retail consumers. 12 If we continue to incur significant losses and are unable to access sufficient working capital from our operations or through external financings, our liquidity will be impaired. We have incurred substantial net losses in each of the last three fiscal years. As reflected in our financial statements, we have experienced net losses of $34,779,000, $70,471,000 and $68,212,000 for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As a result, the total amount of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents and restricted investments available for sale, and investments available for sale declined from $193,142,000 at December 31, 2009 to $42,911,000 at December 31, 2012. The negative cash flow we have sustained has reduced our working capital and continued negative cash flow would materially and negatively affect our ability to fund our operations. While we have taken and continue to take actions intended to improve our results, including implementing a major cost reduction program in which we reduced compensation costs, advertising and promotion costs and inventories, the availability of necessary working capital is subject to many factors beyond our control. Such factors include, among others, our ability to obtain additional financing, our ability to increase revenues and to reduce our losses from operations, economic conditions, market acceptance of our products, the intensity of competition in our markets and the level of demand for our products. In an effort to increase the amount of credit available to us, in April 2012 we replaced our credit facility with a $35,000,000 asset-based facility. If we are unable to reduce our operating losses and significantly reduce our inventories, our liquidity would be impaired. Restrictions imposed by the terms of our credit facility may limit our operating and financial flexibility. On April 25, 2012, we entered into a new revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC (collectively as “Wells Fargo”). The Credit Facility, among other things, largely prevents us from incurring any additional indebtedness, limits capital expenditures and restricts dividends and stock repurchases. The Credit Facility also provides for financial covenants, which include a minimum monthly EBITDA for each month through November 30, 2013 and a fixed charge coverage ratio for each twelve month fiscal period commencing for the fiscal period ending on December 31, 2013 which applies when the excess availability has fallen below a certain level. In addition, our ability to access the Credit Facility will be affected by the amount and value of our assets which are used to determine the borrowing base under the Credit Facility. The borrowing base is reduced by availability limits and reserves established by Wells Fargo pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility. As a result of the foregoing, our operation and financial flexibility may be limited, which may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might further our growth strategy or otherwise be considered beneficial to us. The Credit Facility contains events of default that include failure to pay principal or interest when due, failure to comply with the covenants set forth in the Credit Facility, bankruptcy events, cross-defaults and judgments involving an aggregate amount of $1,000,000 or more and the occurrence of a change of control, in each case subject to the grace periods, qualifications and thresholds specified in the Credit Facility. If the indebtedness under the Credit Facility were to be accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay such indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. Any such acceleration could also result in a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our assets, which would have a negative impact on the value of our common stock and jeopardize our ability to continue as a going concern. Purchasing patterns are influenced by consumers’ disposable income, which is affected by economic conditions. Consumer purchasing patterns are influenced by consumers’ disposable income. Consequently, the success of our operations may depend to a significant extent upon a number of factors affecting disposable income, including general economic conditions, level of employment, salaries and wage rates, consumer confidence, consumer perception of economic conditions, interest rates and taxation. Many of these factors are outside of our control and may have a negative impact on our sales and margins. The consumer environment has been particularly challenging over the last several years and especially so in Europe, where our operations are significant, due to the risk surrounding the current European debt crisis and stability of the Euro and European Union. Disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets could further reduce consumer income, liquidity, credit and confidence in the economy and result in further reductions in consumer spending. Further deterioration of the consumer spending environment and increases in the unemployment rate may result in reduced demand for our products, which would be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. If we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience difficulties in handling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventories and our sales and brand image may be adversely affected. The athletic footwear industry has relatively long lead times for the design and production of products. Consequently, we must commit to production tooling, and in some cases to production, in advance of orders based on our forecasts of consumer demand. The uncertainty surrounding today’s economy makes it increasingly difficult for us to accurately forecast product demand trends. If we fail to forecast consumer demand accurately, we may under-produce or over-produce our products. If we under-produce our products, we may experience inventory shortages which might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, negatively impact our sales results and diminish brand awareness. Conversely, if we over-produce our products based on an aggressive forecast of consumer demand, this may result in inventory write-downs, the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices and retailers may not be able to sell the product and may seek to return the unsold quantities and cancel future orders. These outcomes could have an adverse effect on our sales and brand image. 13 Our current futures orders may not be indicative of future sales. Our “futures” program allows our customers to order our products five months or more prior to delivery of product. Our current futures orders position may not be indicative of future sales. The mix of “futures” and “at-once” orders can vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year and therefore “futures” are not necessarily indicative of revenues for subsequent periods. Orders may be cancelled by customers without financial penalty. Customers may also reject nonconforming goods. If we experience adverse developments in customer cancellations, product returns or bad debts of customers, such developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delay and increase costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by us in our manufactured products and in the price of materials used to manufacture our footwear could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, such as oil and electricity, increased freight costs, increased labor costs and weather conditions. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to our customers. The loss of a significant customer, or a significant reduction in our sales to such a customer, could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. While no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues in 2012, we do have significant customers. The loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in our sales to any of these customers, could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, if any such customer becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to pay its debts, it could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Consolidation of customers or concentration of customer market share among a few customers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell our products. The athletic and casual footwear and apparel retail markets in some countries where we sell our products are dominated by a few large footwear and apparel retailers with many stores. These retailers have increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. Such consolidation concentrates our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. In addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of revenues. Our financial success is limited to the success of our customers. Our financial success is directly related to the success of our customers and the willingness and financial resources of our customers to continue to buy our products. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. Sales to our customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by our customers. If any of these customers experience a significant downturn in their business, insolvency, difficulty in obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products or fail to remain committed to our products or brands, then these customers may defer, reduce, cancel or discontinue purchases from us and/or fail to meet their payment obligations to us. Such conditions could decrease our revenues, or cause higher accounts receivables, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts or increased bad debt expense, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 If we decrease the price that we charge for our products, we will earn lower gross margins and our revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. The prices we are able to charge for our products depend on the type of product offered, the consumer and retailer response to the product and the prices charged by our competitors. To the extent that we are forced to lower our prices, our gross margins will be lower and our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. Our business is subject to economic conditions in our major markets. Consequently, adverse changes in economic conditions could have a negative effect on our business. Our business is subject to economic conditions that may fluctuate in the major markets in which we operate. Factors that could cause economic conditions to fluctuate include, without limitation, recession, inflation, higher interest borrowing rates, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, general weakness in retail markets and changes in consumer purchasing power and preferences. If global economic and financial market conditions continue to remain uncertain and/or weak for an extended period of time, any of the following factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations: · slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from customers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins; · continued volatility in the global markets and fluctuations in exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could negatively impact our reported financial results and condition; · continued volatility in the prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and ultimately our profitability; · if our customers experience declining revenues, or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of customers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense; · a severe financial difficulty experienced by our customers may cause them to become insolvent or cease business operations, which could reduce the availability of our products to consumers; and · any difficulty or inability on the part of manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain in obtaining sufficient financing to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. Our international sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. We operate offices and sell products in numerous countries outside the United States. Our revenue earned from international markets represents approximately 66%, 56% and 57% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Additionally, all of our footwear products are manufactured abroad and we have suppliers located in China, Thailand, Vietnam and Indonesia. Our athletic footwear sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. These risks include: · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · political instability; · limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars; · restrictions on dividend payments and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries and other restrictions on transfers of funds to or from foreign countries; · export and import duties, tariffs, regulations, quotas and other restrictions on free trade, particularly as these regulations may affect our operations in China; and · investment regulation and other restrictions by foreign governments. If these risks limit or prevent us from selling or manufacturing products in any significant international market, prevent us from acquiring products from our foreign suppliers or significantly increase the cost of our products, our operations could be seriously disrupted until alternative suppliers are found or alternative markets are developed. Although we enter into certain forward currency exchange contracts to hedge the risk of exchange rate fluctuations, these steps may not fully protect us against this risk and we may incur losses. 15 The potential imposition of additional duties, quotas, tariffs and other trade restrictions could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability. All of the products we manufacture overseas and import into the United States, the European Union and other countries are subject to shipment inspections, audits and customs duties collected by customs authorities. Customs information submitted by the Company is routinely subject to review by customs authorities. Further, additional U.S. or foreign inspections, audits, customs duties, quotas, tariffs, anti-dumping duties, safeguard measures, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism or other trade restrictions may be imposed on the importation of our products in the future. The imposition of such restrictions in foreign countries where we operate, as well as in countries where our third party distributors and licensees operate, could result in increases in the costs of our products generally and could, as a result, adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our business depends in part on a strong brand image. Our brand names are one of our most important and valuable assets. Adverse publicity relating to our products, advertising, customer service or employees could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. If our brands are damaged or consumers lose confidence in our brands, demand for our products could decrease and our financial results could be adversely affected. Further, we may be required to expend additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands. Our financial position, cash flow or results may be adversely affected by the threat of terrorism and related political instability and economic uncertainty. The threat of potential terrorist attacks on the United States and throughout the world and political instability has created an atmosphere of economic uncertainty in the United States and in foreign markets. Our results may be impacted by the macroeconomic effects of those events. Also, a disruption in our supply chain as a result of terrorist attacks or the threat thereof may significantly affect our business and its prospects. In addition, such events may also result in heightened domestic security and higher costs for importing and exporting shipments of components and finished goods. Any of these occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flow or results in any reporting period. Because we rely on independent manufacturers to produce our products, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if our independent manufacturers fail to meet pricing, product quality and timeliness requirements or terminate their operations or if we are unable to obtain some components used in our products from limited supply sources or experience supply chain disruptions. We depend upon independent manufacturers to manufacture our products in a timely and cost-efficient manner while maintaining specified quality standards. We also compete with other larger companies for production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. We rely heavily on manufacturing facilities located in Asia. In 2012, approximately 32%, 25%, 22% and 21% of our K•Swiss brand footwear manufacturing occurred in China, Thailand, Vietnam and Indonesia, respectively. We also rely upon the availability of sufficient production capacity at our manufacturers. Timely delivery of product may be impacted by factors such as weather conditions, disruption of the transportation systems or shipping lines used by our suppliers, or uncontrollable factors such as natural disasters, epidemic diseases, terrorism and war. It is essential that our manufacturers deliver our products in a timely manner and in accordance with our quality standards because our orders may be cancelled by customers if agreed-upon delivery windows are not met or products are not of agreed-upon quality. Inflationary pressures, including increased labor costs, that are experienced by our independent contract manufacturers, may result in increased costs to us. A failure by one or more of our manufacturers to meet established criteria for pricing, product quality or timely delivery or the termination of operations by any one of our manufacturers could adversely impact our sales and profitability. Because a large portion of our imported products are manufactured in China, our profitability may be adversely affected if the United States government takes action against China for its concern over the level of intellectual property rights protection and enforcements available in China. We rely heavily on manufacturing facilities located in China. The United States government has expressed serious concern over the level of intellectual property rights protection and enforcement available in China and the United States Trade Representative has in turn included China on its Priority Watch List. If the United States government takes action against China for its failure to adequately protect intellectual property rights, the result of that action could, among other things, include the imposition of trade sanctions that could affect the ability of the Company to continue to import products from China, which in turn could affect the costs of products purchased and sold by the Company and lead to a decline in the Company’s profitability. 16 Our competitive position could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. Counterfeiting of our brands can divert sales and damage our brand image. We believe that our trademarks, patents and proprietary technologies and designs are of great value. From time to time third parties have challenged, and may, in the future, try to challenge our ownership or the validity of our intellectual property. A successful challenge to any of our significant intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business and ability to generate revenue. Our brands and designs are constantly at risk for counterfeiting and infringement of our intellectual property rights, especially in China where a large portion of our imported products are manufactured, and we find counterfeit products and products that infringe on our intellectual property rights in our markets as well as domain names that use our trade names or trademarks without our consent. We have not always been successful, particularly in some foreign countries, in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringements or other misappropriation of our intellectual property rights. Counterfeit and infringing products can cause us to lose significant sales and can also harm the integrity of our brands by associating our trademarks or designs with lesser quality or defective goods. Additionally, the scope of protection of our proprietary intellectual property rights can vary significantly from country to country, and can be quite narrow in some countries because of local law or practices. This is especially the case in China where the United States government has elevated China to its Priority Watch List, as discussed above. We may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. This litigation could result in substantial costs and may require the devotion of substantial resources. We rely on our warehouses and if there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at any of these facilities, we may be unable to deliver product effectively to our customers. We rely on warehouses in Mira Loma, California; Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Taipei, Taiwan; and Kwai Chung, Hong Kong. We also rely on the timely performance of services provided by third parties (i.e. Netherlands public distribution facility, freight delivery carriers) at these facilities. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption at any of these facilities due to fire, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack or any other natural or manmade cause could damage a portion of our inventory or impair our ability to use our warehouse as a docking location for product. Any of these occurrences could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers and negatively impact our operating results. We depend on independent distributors to sell our products in certain international markets. We sell our products in certain international markets mainly through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption and loss of sales. Our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. We believe the athletic and casual footwear industry experiences seasonal fluctuations, due to increased sales during certain selling seasons, including Easter, back-to-school and the year-end holiday season. We too experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. The mix of our product sales may also vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear and apparel. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. This seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including the other risk factors described in this report, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. We may be subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings and may be affected by changes in government regulations. From time to time we may be a party to lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business, including with respect to the intellectual property rights of others. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that we devote substantial resources to defend the Company. Further, changes in government regulations both in the United States and in the countries in which we operate could have adverse affects on our business and subject us to additional regulatory actions. 17 Our net income may be adversely affected by an increase in our effective tax rate. At any point in time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with tax authorities may affect tax positions taken by us. Additionally, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the geographic mix or level of earnings. We have not recorded United States income tax expense on earnings of selected foreign subsidiary companies as these are intended to be permanently invested, thus reducing our overall income tax expense. The amount of earnings designated as permanently invested is based upon our expectations of the future cash needs of our subsidiaries. Income tax considerations are also a factor in determining the amount of earnings to be permanently invested. Because the declaration involves our future plans and expectations of future events, the possibility exists that amounts declared as permanently invested may ultimately be repatriated. This would result in additional income tax expense in the year we determined that amounts were no longer permanently invested which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel, whose loss would adversely impact our business. Our success is largely dependent upon the efforts of Steven Nichols, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and certain other key executives. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Nichols that expires in December 2015, the loss of his and/or other key executive’s services would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success also depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of our personnel. Accordingly, our continued success will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, marketing, technical and sales personnel. These people are in high demand and often have competing employment opportunities. The labor market for skilled employees is highly competitive due to limited supply, and we may lose key employees or be forced to increase their compensation. Employee turnover could significantly increase our training and other related employee costs. The loss of the services of any key personnel or our inability to attract additional personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. A limited number of our stockholders can exert significant influence over the Company. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Steven Nichols, held approximately 92.7% of the voting power of our Class B Common Stock and approximately 69.1% of total voting power. This voting power permits Mr. Nichols to exert significant influence over the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of a certain class of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. We depend on our computer and communications systems. We extensively utilize computer and communications systems to operate our Internet business and manage our internal operations including without limitation, demand and supply planning, and inventory control. Despite our preventative efforts, our information technology systems and websites are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, power loss, telecommunications failure, failure of our computer system or other interruption caused by weather, natural disasters or similar events, any of which could disrupt our operations and result in lost sales. In addition, hackers and computer viruses have disrupted operations at many major companies. We may be vulnerable to similar acts of sabotage. Any breach of our systems may result in the loss of valuable business data, our customers’ or employees’ personal information or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. An inability to maintain compliance with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal risks. We rely on our management information systems to operate our business and to track our operating results. Our management information systems will require maintenance, modification and refinement as our business needs change. If we experience a significant system failure or if we are unable to maintain and modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, then our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. 18 We may face transitional challenges with acquisitions of other businesses. In years past, the Company has from time to time pursued acquisitions of other businesses and may pursue such acquisitions in the future, subject to the restrictions in the Merger Agreement. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any newly-acquired businesses into the Company’s operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including risks inherent in entering new markets in which the Company may not have prior experience, potential loss of significant customers or key personnel of the acquired business; managing geographically-remote operations, and potential diversion of management’s attention from other aspects of the Company’s business operations. Acquisitions may also result in incurrence of debt, dilutive issuances of the Company’s equity securities and write-offs of goodwill and substantial amortization expenses of other intangible assets. The failure to integrate newly acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial position. Failure of our contractors or our licensees’ contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards could harm our business. We work with contractors outside of the United States to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract to manufacture products using our trademarks. We impose, and require our licensees to impose, on those contractors a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. We also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. However, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may not require their contractors to comply with such standards or applicable local law. Significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Announced Merger As discussed in “Item 1. Business”, we have entered into a Merger Agreement, dated as of January 16, 2013, with E-Land and Merger Sub, which contemplates the Merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company, with the Company surviving the Merger as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of E-Land. In relation to the Merger, we are subject to certain risks, including, without limitation, those set forth below. Due to the proposed Merger and the related diversion of our management’s attention from the operation of our business, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. As a result of the proposed Merger, our management and board of directors have devoted and will continue to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the proposed Merger. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur associated expenses related to the proposed Merger which could prove to be significant. Our business and our operating and financial results may be materially adversely impacted by the diversion of management’s time and attention and the expenses associated with the proposed Merger. The proposed Merger will not be completed if all of the conditions to the Merger are not satisfied or waived. Completion of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of various conditions, including the approval of our stockholders and the receipt of certain antitrust approvals. There can be no assurance that all of the conditions will be satisfied or waived within the anticipated timeframe, or at all, and there can be no assurance as to whether, or when, the Merger will be completed. If the Merger is not effected on or before June 26, 2013, either E-Land or the Company may terminate the Merger Agreement as long as it was not the primary cause of, or the primary factor that resulted in, the failure of the Merger to be completed. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that could discourage or make it difficult for a third party to acquire us prior to the completion of the proposed Merger. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that restrict our ability to entertain a third-party proposal to acquire us. These provisions include the general prohibition on our soliciting or engaging in discussions or negotiations regarding any alternative acquisition proposal, subject to certain exceptions, and the requirement that we pay a termination fee of up to $5.2 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated in specified circumstances. 19 These provisions might discourage an otherwise-interested third party from considering or proposing to acquire us, even one that may be deemed of greater value than the proposed Merger to our stockholders. Furthermore, even if a third party elects to propose an acquisition, the concept of a termination fee may result in that third party offering a lower value to our stockholders than such third party might otherwise have offered. Failure to complete the proposed Merger could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. The completion of the proposed Merger is subject to a number of conditions and there can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the proposed Merger will be satisfied or that the proposed Merger will otherwise occur. If the proposed Merger is not completed, we will be subject to several risks, including: · our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us, which might adversely affect our ability to retain and hire key personnel and other employees; · customers and other parties with which we maintain business relationships may experience uncertainty about our future and seek alternative relationships with other parties or seek to alter their business relationships with us; · we may be required to pay a termination fee of up to $5.2 million or up to $1.0 million of the reasonable out-of-pocket costs incurred by E-Land in connection with the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances which would negatively affect our financial results and liquidity; · we expect to incur transaction costs in connection with the proposed Merger regardless of whether the proposed Merger is completed, which costs could prove to be significant; · we would not realize any of the anticipated benefits of having completed the proposed Merger; and · under the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the proposed Merger, which restrictions could adversely affect our ability to realize certain of our business strategies regardless of whether the Merger is consummated. Several lawsuits have been filed against the Company, E-Land, Merger Sub, our directors and certain of our officers challenging the proposed Merger, and an adverse ruling may prevent the proposed Merger from being completed or adversely affect the Company’s financial results and liquidity. The Company, E-Land, Merger Sub, and the members of the Board and certain of our officers have been named as defendants in several lawsuits brought by purported stockholders of the Company challenging the proposed Merger and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief to enjoin the defendants from completing the proposed Merger on the agreed-upon terms. One of the conditions to the closing of the Merger is that no injunction or other legal restraint or prohibition shall be in effect that prohibits or makes illegal the consummation of the Merger. Therefore, if a settlement or other resolution is not reached in the lawsuits referenced above and the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting the Company’s ability to complete the Merger, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the proposed Merger from becoming effective within the expected timeframe or at all. In addition, an adverse judgment for monetary damages could have a material adverse effect on the financial results, operations and liquidity of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 