Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below could materially affect TRH's business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The occurrence of severe catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on TRH's financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. Because TRH underwrites property and casualty reinsurance and has large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters, TRH expects that its loss experience will from time to time include events of great severity. The frequency and severity of catastrophe losses are inherently unpredictable, particularly in light of the acceleration of climate change. Consequently, the occurrence of losses from a severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on TRH's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have historically resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and TRH expects that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. If TRH is required to increase its liabilities for loss reserves, TRH's financial condition, results of operations and ultimately its cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Significant periods of time may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to the ceding company and the reinsurer, and the ceding company's payment of that loss and subsequent payments to the ceding company by the reinsurer. TRH is required by applicable insurance laws and regulations and GAAP to establish liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for payment of losses and LAE that will arise in the future from its reinsurance products for losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date. Under GAAP, TRH is not permitted to establish liabilities until an event occurs that may give rise to a loss. Once such an event occurs, liabilities are established in TRH's financial statements for its losses, based upon estimates of losses incurred by the ceding companies. As a result, only liabilities applicable to losses incurred up to the reporting date may be established, with no allowance for the provision of a contingency reserve to account for expected or unexpected future losses. Losses arising from future events will be estimated and recognized at the time the losses occur. Although TRH annually reviews the adequacy of its established reserves for losses and LAE, there can be no assurance that TRH's loss reserves will not develop adversely and have a material effect on TRH's results of operations. To the extent these liabilities may be insufficient to cover actual losses or LAE, TRH will have to add to these liabilities and incur a charge to its earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on TRH's financial condition, results of operations and ultimately its cash flows. See MD&A for a further discussion of the risks and uncertainties relating to loss reserves. A downgrade in the ratings assigned to TRH could adversely affect TRH's ability to write new business and/or TRH's cost and availability of any future unsecured financing, and may adversely impact TRH's existing agreements. S&P, Best and Moody's are generally considered to be significant rating agencies with respect to the evaluation of insurance and reinsurance companies. Financial strength and credit ratings by these rating agencies are important factors in establishing a competitive position for insurance and reinsurance companies. Financial strength ratings measure a company's ability to meet its insurance and reinsurance obligations to contract holders. Credit ratings measure a company's ability to repay its debt obligations and directly affect the cost and availability of unsecured financing. Ratings are subject to periodic review at the discretion of each respective rating agency and may be revised downward or revoked at their sole discretion. Rating agencies also may increase their scrutiny of rated companies, revise their rating standards or take other action. In addition, a ceding company's own rating may be adversely affected by a downgrade in the rating of its reinsurer or an affiliated company. Therefore, a downgrade of a rating of the 22 Table of Contents Company or its operating subsidiaries may dissuade a ceding company from reinsuring with TRH in the future and may influence a ceding company to reinsure with one of TRH's competitors that has a higher financial strength rating. In general, if the insurer financial strength ratings and/or financial strength ratings of TRC, TRZ or Putnam from these rating agencies fall below "A-," certain rating agency triggers in TRH's contracts would allow customers to elect to take a number of actions such as terminating the contracts on a run-off or cut-off basis, requiring TRH to post collateral for all or a portion of the obligations or requiring commutation under the contract as described below. A downgrade of TRH's debt ratings may also increase future borrowing costs. S&P maintains a counterparty credit rating and insurer financial strength rating of "A+" (Strong) on each of TRC, TRZ and Putnam. The Company's counterparty credit rating is "BBB+". The outlooks for these ratings are stable. The Company's senior unsecured debt rating is "BBB+". The counterparty credit rating and insurer financial strength rating "A+" represents the fifth out of 21 rating levels. The counterparty credit rating "BBB+" represents the eighth out of 21 rating levels. Best maintains financial strength ratings on TRC, TRZ and Putnam of "A (Excellent)" and issuer credit ratings of "a". Best maintains an issuer credit rating of "bbb" on the Company. The outlooks for these ratings are stable. The financial strength rating "A (Excellent)" represents the third out of 15 rating levels. The issuer credit rating "a" represents the sixth out of 21 rating levels and the issuer credit rating "bbb" represents the ninth out of 21 rating levels. Moody's maintains an insurance financial strength rating of "A1" on TRC and a senior unsecured debt rating of "Baa1" on the Company. Both of these ratings have stable outlooks. The insurance financial strength rating "A1" is the fifth out of 21 rating levels and the senior unsecured debt rating "Baa1" is the eighth out of 21 rating levels. All of these ratings are current opinions of S&P, Best and Moody's, respectively. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the respective rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at the request of TRH's management. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities or TRH's reinsurance products and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. A significant portion of TRH's in-force treaty contracts as of December 31, 2009 permit the ceding company to cancel the contract on a cut-off or run-off basis if TRH's operating subsidiaries' financial strength rating is downgraded below a certain rating level, generally "A-". TRC's and TRZ's financial strength ratings are at least two levels above the most common trigger point. In addition, contracts may also permit the ceding company to cancel the contract if there is a significant decline in the statutory surplus of TRC, generally of at least 20%. Contracts may contain one or both of the aforementioned contractual provisions, certain other cancellation triggers or other stipulations, such as a requirement to post collateral for all or a portion of TRH's obligations or require commutation under the contract if a triggering event occurs. Whether a ceding company would exercise any of these cancellation rights would depend on, among other factors, the reason and extent of such downgrade or surplus reduction, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. When a contract is cancelled on a "cut-off" basis, as opposed to a "run-off" basis, the liability of the reinsurer under policies which became effective under the treaty prior to the cancellation date of such treaty ceases with respect to losses resulting from events taking place on and after said cancellation date. Accordingly, unearned premiums on that business as of the cut-off date are returned to the ceding company, net of a proportionate share of the original ceding commission. In the accounting period of the cancellation effective date, the amount of unearned premiums returned would be recorded as a reduction of gross premiums written with a like reduction in gross unearned premiums with no effect on gross 23 Table of Contents premiums earned. Thus, the canceling of a contract generally has liquidity and future implications to TRH's business but rarely affects premiums already earned. TRH cannot predict in advance the extent to which these cancellation rights would be exercised, if at all, or what effect such cancellations would have on TRH's financial condition or future operations, but such effect potentially could be materially adverse. TRH may secure its obligations under its various reinsurance contracts using trusts and letters of credit. TRH may enter into agreements with ceding companies that require TRH to provide collateral for its obligations under certain reinsurance contracts with these ceding companies under various circumstances, including where TRH's obligations to these ceding companies exceed negotiated thresholds. These thresholds may vary depending on TRH's ratings, and a downgrade of TRH's ratings or a failure to achieve a certain rating may increase the amount of collateral TRH is required to provide. TRH may provide the collateral by delivering letters of credit to the ceding company, depositing assets into a trust for the benefit of the ceding company or permitting the ceding company to withhold funds that would otherwise be delivered to TRH under the reinsurance contract. The amount of collateral TRH is required to provide typically represents all or a portion of the obligations TRH may owe the ceding company, often including estimates made by the ceding company of IBNR claims. Since TRH may be required to provide collateral based on the ceding company's estimate, TRH may be obligated to provide collateral that exceeds TRH's estimates of the ultimate liability to the ceding company. An increase in the amount of collateral TRH is obligated to provide to secure its obligations may have an adverse impact on, among other things, TRH's ability to write additional reinsurance. If TRH's risk management methods and pricing models are not effective, TRH's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. TRH's property and casualty reinsurance contracts cover unpredictable events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, fires, industrial explosions, freezes, riots, floods and other natural or man-made disasters, including those that may result from terrorist activity. TRH is also exposed to multiple insured losses arising out of a single occurrence that have the potential to accumulate to material amounts and affect multiple risks/programs and classes of business. TRH uses modeling techniques to manage certain of such risks to acceptable limits, although current techniques used to estimate the exposure may not accurately predict the probability of such an event or the extent of resulting losses. In addition, TRH may purchase retrocession protection designed to limit the amount of losses that it may incur. Retrocession arrangements do not relieve TRH from its obligations to the insurers and reinsurers from whom TRH assumes business. The failure of retrocessionnaires to honor their obligations could result in losses to TRH. Moreover, from time to time, market conditions may limit and in some cases prevent reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their risk management. If TRH is unable to obtain retrocessional coverage in the amounts it desires or on acceptable terms, TRH's capacity and appetite for risk could change, and TRH's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Further, various provisions of TRH's contracts, such as limitations to or exclusions from coverage or choice of legal forum, may not be enforceable in the manner TRH intends, due to, among other things, disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum. Additionally, underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently difficult to predict and are beyond TRH's control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. Also, TRH's risk management methods, models, databases and experience may not adequately address the emergence of various matters, such as the impact of climate change, that could significantly affect TRH's business in future periods. One or more catastrophic or other events and emerging risks could result in claims or have an impact that substantially exceeds TRH's expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on TRH's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 Table of Contents The property and casualty reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and TRH expects to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable pricing. Historically, property and casualty reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting and investment results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic and market conditions, all of which affect ceding companies' decisions as to the amount or portion of risk that they retain for their own accounts and consequently how much they decide to cede to reinsurance companies. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses and the levels of industry surplus, among other factors, that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the reinsurance industry. In addition, the supply of reinsurance is affected by a reinsurer's confidence in its ability to accurately assess the probability of expected underwriting outcomes, particularly with respect to catastrophe losses. As a result, the property and casualty reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable pricing. The cyclical trends in the industry and the industry's profitability can also be affected significantly by volatile and unpredictable developments, including what TRH believes to be a trend of courts to grant increasingly larger awards for certain damages, changes in the political, social or economic environment, natural disasters (such as catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods), man-made disasters (such as those arising from terrorist activities), fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of and returns on investments and inflationary pressures that may affect the size of losses experienced by primary insurers. TRH cannot predict whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. Unfavorable market conditions may affect TRH's ability to write reinsurance at rates that TRH considers appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If TRH cannot write property and casualty reinsurance at appropriate rates, TRH's ability to transact reinsurance business would be significantly and adversely affected. Increased competition could adversely affect TRH's profitability. The property and casualty reinsurance industry is highly competitive in virtually all lines. TRH could face increased competition from new market entrants, existing market participants devoting additional capital to the types of business written by TRH, alternatives to reinsurance available to cedants, such as capital market alternatives, and government-sponsored reinsurance entities. Competition in the types of reinsurance in which TRH is engaged is based on many factors, including the perceived overall financial strength of the reinsurer, ratings of S&P, Best and Moody's, states or other jurisdictions where the reinsurer is licensed, accredited, authorized or can serve as a reinsurer, capacity and coverages offered, premiums charged, specific terms and conditions of the reinsurance offered, services offered, speed of claims payment and reputation and experience in the lines of business underwritten. TRH competes in the U.S. and international reinsurance markets with numerous international and domestic reinsurance companies, some of which have greater resources than TRH or operate in different regulatory jurisdictions and tax environments. TRH's competitors include independent reinsurance companies, subsidiaries or affiliates of established worldwide insurance companies, reinsurance departments of certain primary insurance companies, domestic and European underwriting syndicates and, in some instances, government-owned or subsidized facilities. Certain of these competitors have been operating substantially longer than TRH and have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the industry, which can be a significant competitive advantage. Traditional reinsurers as well as capital market participants from time to time produce alternative products or reinsurance vehicles (such as reinsurance securitizations, catastrophe bonds and various derivatives, such as swaps, and sidecars) that may compete with certain types of reinsurance, such as 25 Table of Contents property catastrophe. Hedge funds may provide reinsurance and retrocessional protections through captive companies or other alternative transactions on a fully collateralized basis for property and energy catastrophe business. Over time, these numerous initiatives could significantly affect supply, pricing and competition in the reinsurance industry. Additionally, government involvement in the reinsurance markets continues to evolve. For example, although the Florida legislature has recently begun to decrease the amount of reinsurance offered by the state-run reinsurer, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF"), in 2007, Florida enacted legislation that, among other things, increased the aggregate reinsurance capacity of the FHCF. In addition, the legislation authorized Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, the state-sponsored insurer of last resort, to increase its underwriting capacity and charge lower rates. This legislation initially reduced and may, as initiatives in the Florida market evolve, continue to change the role of the private reinsurance markets in Florida. Further, if similar measures are taken in other regions that reduce the demand for private reinsurance within such markets, this may compel current market participants to seek greater participation in different regions and thus increase competition in other regions such as Latin America, the Caribbean and the coastal Mid-Atlantic and New England states. A limited number of brokers account for a large portion of TRH's premiums; the loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by them may have an adverse effect on TRH. The great majority of TRH's premiums are written through brokers. In 2009, non-AIG Group business brokered by companies controlled by Aon and Marsh accounted for 26% and 17%, respectively, of total gross premiums written. In addition, non-AIG Group business brokered by TRH's 10 largest brokerage sources of non-AIG Group business accounted for 61% of total gross premiums written in 2009. These brokers also have, or may in the future acquire, ownership interests in insurance and reinsurance companies that may compete with TRH. The loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by TRH's brokers could have a material adverse effect on TRH. Concentration of TRH's investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects. Concentration of TRH's investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries, asset class or geographic region could have an adverse effect on TRH's investment portfolios and consequently on TRH's consolidated results of operations or financial condition. While TRH seeks to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, group of related industries, asset class or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified. Further, TRH's ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. The valuation of TRH's investments includes methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations; a change in interpretations could result in changes to investment valuations that may adversely affect TRH's results of operations or financial condition. The vast majority of TRH's investments are measured at fair value using methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets generally have more pricing observability and less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments traded in other-than-active markets or that do not have quoted prices have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing techniques that require more judgment. Investments recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet are classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three "levels" based on the 26 Table of Contents observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair values. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the types of assets included in each of the three levels.) Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and trade. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of the securities in TRH's investment portfolio if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to changes in the financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and judgment of TRH's management. In addition, prices provided by independent pricing services and independent broker quotes can vary widely even for the same security. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated, thereby resulting in values which may be greater or less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing or strained credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within TRH's consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on TRH's results of operations or financial condition. (See MD&A for a further discussion of the risks and uncertainties relating to critical accounting estimates.) The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") taken on TRH's investments is subjective and could materially impact TRH's results of operations or financial condition. The determination that a security has incurred an other-than-temporary decline in value requires the judgment of TRH's management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer, its near-term prospects and all relevant facts and circumstances. (See Note 4(g) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the methodology TRH uses to determine OTTI.) There can, however, be no assurance that TRH has accurately assessed the level of impairments reflected in its financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. An investment is impaired if its fair value falls below its cost or amortized cost. The determination of whether an impairment is other-than-temporary is subjective and involves considerable judgment and the consideration of various factors and circumstances. The significant factors include: •the severity of the decline in fair value •the length of time the fair value is below cost •the issuer's financial condition, including profitability and cash flows •the issuer's credit status •the issuer's specific and general competitive environment •published reports •the general economic environment •the regulatory and legislative environment •other relevant factors If TRH's determination of OTTI is materially incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on TRH's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 27 Table of Contents TRH's liquidity could be materially impaired by future events within or outside of TRH's control, including conditions in the financial and credit markets. The Company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit TRH's ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from its subsidiaries. In particular, certain of TRH's branches or subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including those in foreign jurisdictions, that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce transfers of funds to the home office in the U.S. or TRH's affiliates. These laws and regulations may hinder TRH's ability to access funds that it may need to make payments on its obligations. Certain of TRH's investments may become illiquid. TRH's investments include fixed maturities (including asset-backed securities), equity investments and other invested assets (including alternative investments and direct equity investments). Disruptions in the credit and financial markets may materially affect the liquidity of TRH's investments. If TRH requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements in a period of market illiquidity, then TRH may have difficulty selling investments in a timely manner or may be forced to dispose of them for less than what TRH might otherwise have been able to under other conditions. Furthermore, TRH does not currently have a credit facility to help it respond to any liquidity problems it may encounter and from time to time it may be difficult for TRH to obtain a credit facility. In addition, conditions in the credit and financial markets, changes in the Company's stock price and other factors could make it difficult for TRH to raise cash in the capital markets. The impact on TRH of governmental actions made in response to the recent economic crisis is difficult to determine at this time. In response to the recent financial crises affecting the credit and financial markets and concern about certain financial institutions' ongoing viability, numerous regulatory and governmental actions have been taken or proposed. Within the U.S., the Federal Reserve has taken action through reduced federal funds rates and the expansion of acceptable collateral for its loans to provide additional liquidity. Numerous financial institutions have received and may continue to receive capital both in the form of emergency loans and direct U.S. Government equity investments. Within the United Kingdom and Europe, similar actions, including interest rate cuts and capital injections into financial institutions, have been undertaken. It is possible that some of TRH's competitors may participate in some of these programs. There can be no assurance as to the effect that any such governmental actions will have on the financial markets generally or on TRH's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in particular. Difficult and volatile conditions in the global capital and credit markets and in the overall economy could materially and adversely affect TRH's operating results, investment portfolio and financial condition. Disruption and volatility in the global capital and credit markets and in the overall economy affects TRH's business in a number of ways, including the following: •disruption in the capital and credit markets may increase claims activity in TRH's reinsurance lines, such as D&O, E&O, credit and, to a limited extent, mortgage guaranty business •significant fluctuations in the fixed maturities, asset-backed securities and equities markets could reduce TRH's investment returns and the value of its investment portfolio •volatility in the capital and credit markets makes it more difficult to access those markets, if necessary, to maintain or improve TRH's financial strength and credit ratings or to generate liquidity •disruption in the overall economy may reduce demand for insurance and reinsurance products 28 Table of Contents It is difficult to predict when and how long these conditions will exist and how TRH's markets, business and investments will be adversely affected. Accordingly, these conditions could have a material adverse effect on TRH's consolidated financial condition or results of operations in future periods. TRH may be adversely affected by the impact of market volatility and interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. TRH's principal invested assets are fixed maturity investments and other interest rate sensitive securities, which are subject to the market risk of potential losses from adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads or trading liquidity and may also be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Depending on TRH's classification of the investment, changes in the fair value of TRH's securities are reflected in its consolidated balance sheet, statement of operations and/or statement of comprehensive income. TRH's investment portfolio is also subject to credit risk resulting from adverse changes in the issuers' ability to repay the debt or the ability of bond insurers to meet their obligations to pay principal and/or interest if an issuer is unable to repay its debt. Moreover, issuers may face liquidity pressures as a result of economic conditions and, in turn, may be subject to downgrades by the credit rating agencies. These risks could materially adversely affect TRH's results of operations and financial condition. A principal exposure to foreign currency risk is TRH's obligation to settle claims in foreign currencies. The possibility exists that TRH may incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as TRH ultimately settles claims required to be paid in foreign currencies. To mitigate this risk, TRH also maintains investments denominated in certain foreign currencies in which the claims payments will be made. To the extent TRH does not seek to hedge its foreign currency risk or hedges prove ineffective, the resulting impact of a movement in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect TRH's results of operations or financial condition. TRH's businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce TRH's profitability and limit its growth. TRH's reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to reinsurers and their stockholders and other investors, and relates to authorization to transact certain lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company's business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework in the U.S. has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance and reinsurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are re-examining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may be more restrictive than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs. Within the EU, the Directive was adopted and may be fully implemented by all member countries by 2010. The Directive requires member countries to lift barriers to trade within the EU for companies that are domiciled in an EU country. TRH operates within the EU through a series of foreign branches and continues to evaluate the potential impact of the implementation of the Directive which could vary from country to country. TRH has contacted insurance regulators throughout the EU to ascertain their regulatory intent and to discuss each country's rule applicable to TRH. Currently, TRH continues to conduct business within the EU through its foreign branches with no significant impact on its operations. As each country within the EU adopts rules implementing the Directive, TRH could be materially 29 Table of Contents adversely affected by the adopted rules. TRH may be required to post additional collateral in EU countries or may need to consider restructuring its business in order to comply with the rules adopted in EU countries implementing the Directive. In addition to the Directive, the EU is phasing in a new regulatory regime for regulation of financial services known as "Solvency II." Solvency II is a principles-based regulatory regime that seeks to enhance transparency, promote uniformity, and encourage a proactive approach to company solvency. It is built on a risk-based approach to setting capital requirements of insurers and reinsurers. It is anticipated that Solvency II will not be implemented before 2012. TRH could be materially impacted by the implementation of Solvency II depending on the costs associated with implementation by each EU country, any increased capitalization requirements and any costs associated with adjustment to TRH's corporate operating structure. Traditionally, regulatory and legislative changes affecting the insurance and reinsurance industries, as well as the financial services industry as a whole, are conducted in an organized and structured manner encompassing the issuance of draft legislation or regulations and a significant period for review, evaluation and comment by the industry and markets. As a result of the displacement in the financial markets and its impact on the insurance and reinsurance industry, legislators and/or regulators may feel compelled to pass new rules in an expedited manner without the normal review periods. The passage of new regulatory rules on an expedited basis may have a material adverse impact on TRH if those rules increase the cost of doing business or restrict TRH's ability to underwrite certain lines of business and/or make certain investments without providing TRH with the normal amount of time to review the new rules, assess their impact on TRH and allow TRH to alter its business strategies or restructure in the most efficient manner. TRH's offices that operate in jurisdictions outside the U.S. are subject to certain limitations and risks that are unique to foreign operations. TRH's international operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to licensing requirements, currency, amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of local investments and other matters. International operations and assets held abroad may be adversely affected by political and other developments in foreign countries, including possibilities of tax changes, nationalization and changes in regulatory policy, as well as by consequences of hostilities and unrest. The risks of such occurrences and their overall effect upon TRH vary from country to country and cannot easily be predicted. In addition, TRH's results of operations and net unrealized currency translation gain or loss (a component of accumulated other comprehensive income) are subject to volatility as the value of the foreign currencies fluctuate relative to the U.S. dollar. Regulations governing technical reserves and remittance balances in some countries may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect TRH's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. TRH relies upon the knowledge and talent of its employees to successfully conduct business. A loss of key personnel could have a material effect on TRH's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods. The Company is a holding company and depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to distribute funds to it in order to meet its financial and other obligations. The payment of dividends, interest and other obligations by the Company is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends. The payment of dividends by TRC and its wholly owned subsidiaries, TRZ and Putnam, is restricted by insurance regulations. Under New York insurance law, TRC and 30 Table of Contents Putnam may pay dividends only out of their statutory earned surplus. Such dividends are limited by statutory formula unless otherwise approved by the NYS ID. At December 31, 2009, TRC had statutory earned surplus of $2.50 billion, and, in 2009, in accordance with the statutory formula, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, TRC could have paid dividends of approximately $401.6 million without regulatory approval. TRH's counterparties may acquire certain rights upon a change in control of TRH, which could negatively affect TRH. TRH is a party to the Applicable Arrangements and Authorizations that contain provisions giving counterparties certain rights (including, in some cases, termination rights) in the event of a change in control of the Company or its subsidiaries. If a change in control occurs, cedants may be permitted to cancel contracts on a cut-off or run-off basis, and TRH may be required to provide collateral to secure premium and reserve balances or may be required to cancel and commute the contract, subject to an agreement between the parties that may be settled in arbitration. If a contract is cancelled on a cut-off basis, TRH may be required to return unearned premiums, net of commissions. In certain instances, contracts contain dual triggers, such as a change in control and a ratings downgrade, both of which must be satisfied for the contractual right to be exercisable. Whether a ceding company would have cancellation rights in connection with a change in control of TRH depends upon the language of its agreement with TRH. Whether a ceding company exercises any cancellation rights it has would depend on, among other factors, such ceding company's views with respect to the prevailing market conditions, the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage and TRH's ratings. In addition, contracts may provide a ceding company with multiple options, such as collateralization or commutation, that would be triggered by a change in control. Collateral requirements may take the form of trust agreements or be funded by securities held or letters of credit. Upon commutation, the amount to be paid to settle the liability for gross loss reserves would typically consider a discount to the financial statement loss reserve value, reflecting the time value of money resident in the ultimate settlement of such loss reserves. TRH cannot presently predict the effects, if any, a change in control will have on the Applicable Arrangements and Authorizations, including the extent to which cancellation rights would be exercised, if at all, or on TRH's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, but such effect could be material. Future sales of the Company's common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could depress the price of the Company's common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of the Company's common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock and could impair TRH's ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares. In connection with the Offering, TRH entered into a registration rights agreement with the AIG Group. The registration rights agreement provides the AIG Group with registration rights relating to the remaining shares of the Company's common stock held by the AIG Group. The AIG Group may require TRH to register under the federal securities law all or a portion of these shares. The registration rights are subject to certain limitations, including TRH's right to temporarily suspend the registration of the shares. If the AIG Group exercises its registration rights and sells a large number of shares of the Company's common stock, the price of the Company's common stock could decline. 31 Table of Contents Provisions in the Company's certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the insurance laws of the jurisdictions in which TRH operates could discourage another company from acquiring TRH and may prevent attempts by the Company's stockholders to replace or remove TRH's current management. Some provisions of the Company's certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger, acquisition or other change in control that the Company's stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by the Company's stockholders to replace or remove TRH's current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove the Company's board of directors. These provisions include: •the Company's board of directors' ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval •limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings In addition, at any time and without stockholder approval, the Company's board of directors may amend the Company's by-laws in a manner that has the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger, acquisition or other change in control that the Company's stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares. TRH is also subject to the laws governing insurance holding companies of various states and countries where TRH's reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled. Under these laws, a person generally must obtain the applicable insurance regulator's approval to acquire, directly or indirectly, ten percent (or sometimes five percent) or more of the outstanding voting securities of TRH's reinsurance subsidiaries. These laws may prevent, delay or defer a change in control of the Company or TRH's reinsurance company subsidiaries. The market price of the Company's common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult or impossible for stockholders to obtain a favorable selling price for their shares. The Company's common stock price has been volatile. Volatility in the market price of the Company's common stock may prevent stockholders from being able to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for their shares. TRH currently expects that the Company's common stock price may continue to be volatile due to factors such as: •general market and economic conditions •actual or anticipated variations in operating results •investor perceptions of TRH and the reinsurance industry •natural or man-made catastrophes •war, terrorist acts and epidemic disease •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding TRH or its competitors •possible losses of large customers •future sales of the Company's common stock 32 Table of Contents The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like TRH. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of the Company's common stock, regardless of TRH's operating performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 