Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below could materially affect TRH’s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The occurrence of severe catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. Because TRH underwrites property and casualty reinsurance and has large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters, TRH expects that its loss experience will from time to time include events of great severity. The frequency and severity of catastrophe losses are inherently unpredictable, particularly in light of the acceleration of climate change. Consequently, the occurrence of losses from a severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have historically resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and TRH expects that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. If TRH is required to increase its liabilities for loss reserves, TRH’s financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Significant periods of time may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to the ceding company and the reinsurer, and the ceding company’s payment of that loss and subsequent payments to the ceding company by the reinsurer. TRH is required by applicable insurance laws and regulations and U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) to establish liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for payment of losses and LAE that will arise in the future from its reinsurance products for losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date. Under GAAP, TRH is not permitted to establish liabilities until an event occurs that may give rise to a loss. Once such an event occurs, liabilities are established in TRH’s financial statements for TRH’s losses, based upon 21 estimates of losses incurred by the ceding companies. As a result, only liabilities applicable to losses incurred up to the reporting date may be established, with no allowance for the provision of a contingency reserve to account for expected or unexpected future losses. Losses arising from future events will be estimated and recognized at the time the losses occur. Although TRH annually reviews the adequacy of its established reserves for losses and LAE, there can be no assurance that TRH’s loss reserves will not develop adversely and have a material effect on TRH’s results of operations. To the extent these liabilities may be insufficient to cover actual losses or LAE, TRH will have to add to these liabilities and incur a charge to its earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s financial condition and results of operations. (See MD&A for further discussion of the risks and uncertainties relating to loss reserves.) A downgrade in the ratings assigned to TRH’s operating subsidiaries could adversely affect TRH’s ability to write new business and may adversely impact TRH’s existing agreements. Best, S&P and Moody’s are generally considered to be significant rating agencies with respect to the evaluation of insurance and reinsurance companies. Financial strength and credit ratings by these rating agencies are important factors in establishing competitive position for insurance and reinsurance companies. Financial strength ratings measure a company’s ability to meet its obligations to contract holders. Credit ratings measure a company’s ability to repay its obligations and directly affect the cost and availability of unsecured financing. Ratings are subject to periodic review at the discretion of each respective rating agency and may be revised downward or revoked at their sole discretion. Rating agencies also may increase their scrutiny of rated companies, revise their rating standards or take other action. In addition, a ceding company’s own rating may be adversely affected by a downgrade in the rating of its reinsurer or an affiliated company. Therefore, a downgrade of a rating of the Company or its operating subsidiaries may dissuade a ceding company from reinsuring with the Company’s operating subsidiaries in the future and may influence a ceding company to reinsure with a competitor of TRH that has a higher financial strength rating. In general, if TRC’s, Putnam’s or TRZ’s insurer financial strength ratings and/or financial strength ratings from these rating agencies fall below “A-”, certain rating agency triggers in TRH’s contracts would allow customers to elect to take a number of actions such as 1) terminating the contracts on a run-off or cut-off basis; 2) requiring TRH to post collateral for all or a portion of the obligations; or 3) require commutation under the contract as described below. A downgrade of the debt ratings of the Company may also increase future borrowing costs, if any. On September 15, 2008, due to the deterioration of the financial strength and flexibility of AIG, Best downgraded the ratings of AIG and most of its subsidiaries. Best downgraded the financial strength ratings of the Company’s major operating subsidiaries, TRC, Putnam and TRZ, to “A (Excellent)” from “A+ (Superior)” and the issuer credit ratings to “a” from “aa-”. Best also downgraded the issuer credit rating of the Company to “bbb” from “a-” and downgraded the rating assigned to the Company’s 5.75% senior notes due December 14, 2015 (the “Senior Notes”) to “bbb” from “a-”. All of these ratings have negative outlooks. The financial strength rating “A (Excellent)” represents the third highest rating level. The issuer credit rating “a” represents the sixth highest rating level and the issuer credit rating “bbb” represents the ninth highest rating level. On January 20, 2009, S&P lowered the ratings of the Company and its major operating subsidiaries stating that this action reflected “TRH’s inability to meet operating performance expectations over time and, to a lesser extent, concerns that the uncertainty surrounding the majority ownership stake of AIG could put constraints on the company’s financial flexibility in the coming months”. S&P lowered the counterparty credit ratings and insurer financial strength ratings on each of TRC, Putnam and TRZ to “A+” (Strong) from “AA-” (Very Strong). The Company’s counterparty credit rating was lowered to “BBB+” from “A-”. The outlook for these ratings is stable. The Company’s senior unsecured debt rating and its Senior Notes’ rating were also lowered to “BBB+” from “A-”. The counterparty credit rating and insurer financial strength rating “A+” represents the fifth highest level. The counterparty credit rating “BBB+” represents the eighth highest level. Moody’s maintains an insurance financial strength rating of “Aa3” (Excellent) on TRC. This rating is the fourth highest rating level. On September 15, 2008, while affirming TRC’s financial strength rating of “Aa3”, Moody’s lowered the senior unsecured debt rating of the Company to “A3” from “A2”, 22 noting that the debt rating previously incorporated one notch of rating uplift from AIG’s ownership stake and that Moody’s increasingly assesses TRH on a stand-alone basis. The Company’s senior unsecured debt rating (“A3”) is the seventh highest level. On October 3, 2008, following AIG’s announcement of a restructuring plan related to the facility created under AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement, Moody’s placed these ratings on review with direction uncertain, signaling potential sales to buyers whose credit profiles could be stronger, weaker or similar to that of AIG. All of these ratings are current opinions of Best, S&P and Moody’s, respectively. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the respective rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances, including TRH’s relationship with AIG. Ratings may also be withdrawn at the request of TRH’s management. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. A significant portion of TRH’s in-force treaty contracts as of December 31, 2008 permit the ceding company to cancel the contract on a cut-off or run-off basis if TRH’s operating subsidiaries’ financial strength rating is downgraded below a certain rating level, generally “A-”. TRC’s and TRZ’s financial strength ratings are at least two levels above the most common trigger point. In addition, contracts may also permit the ceding company to cancel the contract if there is a significant decline in the statutory surplus of TRC, generally of at least 20%. Contracts may contain one or both of the aforementioned contractual provisions, certain other cancellation triggers or other stipulations, such as a requirement to post collateral for all or a portion of TRH’s obligations or require commutation under the contract if a triggering event occurs. Whether a ceding company would exercise any of these cancellation rights would depend on, among other factors, the reason and extent of such downgrade or surplus reduction, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage, among other factors. When a contract is cancelled on a “cut-off” basis, as opposed to a “run-off” basis, the liability of the reinsurer under policies which became effective under the treaty prior to the cancellation date of such treaty ceases with respect to losses resulting from events taking place on and after said cancellation date. Accordingly, unearned premiums on that business as of the cut-off date are returned to the ceding company, net of a proportionate share of the original ceding commission. In the accounting period of the cancellation effective date, the amount of unearned premiums returned would be recorded as a reduction of gross premiums written with a like reduction in gross unearned premiums with no effect on gross premiums earned. Thus, the canceling of a contract generally has liquidity and future implications to TRH’s business but rarely affects premiums already earned. TRH cannot predict in advance the extent to which these cancellation rights would be exercised, if at all, or what effect such cancellations would have on TRH’s financial condition or future operations, but such effect potentially could be material. TRH may secure its obligations under its various reinsurance contracts using trusts and letters of credit. TRH may enter into agreements with ceding companies that require TRH to provide collateral for its obligations under certain reinsurance contracts with these ceding companies under various circumstances, including where TRH’s obligations to these ceding companies exceed negotiated thresholds. These thresholds may vary depending on TRH’s ratings and a downgrade of TRH’s ratings or a failure to achieve a certain rating may increase the amount of collateral TRH is required to provide. TRH may provide the collateral by delivering letters of credit to the ceding company, depositing assets into trust for the benefit of the ceding company or permitting the ceding company to withhold funds that would otherwise be delivered to TRH under the reinsurance contract. The amount of collateral TRH is required to provide typically represents all or a portion of the obligations TRH may owe the ceding company, often including estimates made by the ceding company of IBNR claims. Since TRH may be required to provide collateral based on the ceding company’s estimate, TRH may be obligated to provide collateral that exceeds its estimates of the ultimate liability to the ceding company. An increase in the amount of collateral TRH is obligated to provide to secure its obligations may have an adverse impact on TRH’s ability to write additional reinsurance. 23 Uncertainty about the continued ownership by AIG of a majority of the Company’s outstanding shares may have an adverse effect on TRH. In September 2008, AIG experienced a severe strain on its liquidity that resulted in AIG entering into AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement with the NY Fed, and, pursuant to that agreement, agreed to issue 100,000 shares of AIG’s Series C Preferred Stock to the Trust. AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement is secured by, among other things, 17.1 million shares of the Company’s common stock held directly by AIG; however, TRH did not guarantee AIG’s obligation under AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement and none of TRH’s assets were pledged to secure AIG’s obligations under AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement. On September 29, 2008, AIG filed an amendment to its Schedule 13D relating to the Company, stating, among other things, that “AIG is exploring all strategic alternatives in connection with a potential disposition or other monetization of its...interest in the Company.” In October 2008, AIG announced a restructuring of its operations, and its intent to retain its U.S. property and casualty and foreign general insurance businesses, and to retain a continuing ownership interest in certain of its foreign life insurance operations, while exploring divestiture opportunities for its remaining businesses. Proceeds from these sales are contractually required to be applied toward the repayment of AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement. A special committee of the Company’s independent directors (the “Special Committee”) was subsequently formed to evaluate proposals received from AIG relating to the possible disposition of, or other transactions involving, AIG’s 59% beneficial ownership of the Company as well as any related business combination transactions involving TRH’s outstanding shares. The Special Committee is continuing its process; however, there can be no assurance as to whether or when AIG will dispose of all or any portion of its interest in the Company or whether or when the Company will engage in any transaction. In October 2008, TRH adopted an employee retention plan covering a significant number of its employees, including its senior-most management. Salary expense associated with this plan totaled approximately $8 million in 2008 and is expected to total approximately $20 million in 2009. (See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Pursuant to AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement, AIG will be required to issue AIG’s Series C Preferred Stock. It is expected that AIG’s Series C Preferred Stock will not be redeemable and will, to the extent permitted by law, vote with AIG common stock as a single class and represent 77.9% of the voting power of AIG’s common stock. In February 2009, AIG received a waiver from the NY Fed stating that neither the Company nor its wholly-owned subsidiary PRMS are deemed to be “restricted subsidiaries” as that term is defined under AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement. If such entities had been deemed to be “restricted subsidiaries,” then they may have been subject to various restrictive covenants and compliance obligations under AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement. TRH’s other subsidiaries are not deemed to be “restricted subsidiaries” under AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement as they are regulated insurance subsidiaries. TRH is not a party to AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement and has not received the benefit of any funding thereunder. Continuing uncertainty surrounding AIG’s ownership interest in the Company may continue to impact TRH’s ability to obtain new and renewal business, result in employee retention issues and further negatively impact TRH’s financial strength and credit ratings, all of which could adversely impact TRH’s financial results in future periods. In addition, as AIG provides certain services to TRH (see Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), a sale of AIG’s interest in TRH may result in additional operating expenses in the future. TRH is also subject to various regulatory requirements and is a party to numerous contracts, agreements, licenses, permits, authorizations and other arrangements (“Arrangements”) that contain provisions giving regulators and counterparties certain rights (including, in some cases, termination rights) in the event of a change in control of TRH or its subsidiaries, as applicable. Additionally, a sale of AIG’s interest in the Company could result in a change of control of TRH under a significant portion of TRH’s reinsurance agreements. If a change in control occurs, the cedant may be permitted to cancel the contract on a cut-off or run-off basis, and TRH may be required to provide collateral to secure premium and reserve balances or be required to cancel and commute the 24 contract, subject to an agreement between the parties that may be settled in arbitration. If the contract is cancelled on a cut-off basis, TRH may be required to return unearned premiums, net of commissions. Whether a ceding company would have cancellation rights in the event of a sale of AIG’s interest depends upon the language of its agreement with TRH. Whether a ceding company would exercise any cancellation rights it did have would depend on, among other factors, such ceding company’s views with respect to the financial strength and business reputation of the new controlling party or other significant owners of the Company’s shares, the extent to which such ceding company currently has reinsurance coverage with such person or its affiliates, the prevailing market conditions, the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage and TRH’s ratings following the change in control. In certain instances, contracts contain dual triggers, such as a change in control and a ratings downgrade, both of which must be satisfied for the contractual right to be exercisable. For purposes of discussing the impact on TRH, where a change in control option appears in a contract, the amounts below assume that the ratings downgrade stipulation has been met, thereby providing the exposure under the change in control clause. In addition, contracts may provide a ceding company with multiple options, such as collateralization or commutation that would be triggered by the same event. The amount of (i) premiums to be returned, net of commission; (ii) unearned premium reserves or loss reserves to be collateralized; or (iii) unearned premium reserves or loss reserves to be included in a commutation are listed for each consequence, even though it may emanate from the same contract and therefore the options would be mutually exclusive. Nevertheless, for purposes of this discussion, the amounts below reflect each of those amounts separately and therefore cannot be aggregated together. Subject to the limitations expressed above, TRH estimates that with respect to a change in control of TRH, approximately $650 million of unearned premiums, which is net of estimated commissions, could be subject to return to the ceding company should every cedant exercise their contractual termination right, including the right of commutation. With respect to gross loss reserves, approximately $980 million of gross loss reserves are subject to commutation. Should cedants invoke the right to commute, an amount would be payable by TRH to the respective ceding companies representing both a return of unearned premiums and a settlement of loss reserves. Such amount would typically consider a discount to the financial statement loss reserve value, reflecting the time value of money resident in the ultimate settlement of such loss reserves. In the event of a change of control of TRH, approximately $120 million of unearned premiums and approximately $970 million of gross loss reserves could be subject to collateralization requirements. Collateral requirements may take the form of trust agreements, funded by securities held, or letters of credit. It is important to note that there is significant duplication in the amounts that are subject to either collateralization or commutation as many contracts have multiple options. Of such amounts that are subject to collateralization or commutation, contracts with AIG subsidiaries account for approximately $100 million of unearned premiums and approximately $700 million gross loss reserves. If a sale of AIG’s interest in the Company is announced, TRH may engage in discussions and activities with regulators and counterparties to take necessary actions to remedy, amend, or comply with the provisions of the Arrangements. However, TRH cannot presently predict the effects, if any, a change of control will have on such Arrangements, including the extent to which cancellation rights would be exercised, if at all, or on TRH’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, but such effect could be material. In addition to a sale of AIG’s direct interest in TRH, upon the issuance of AIG’s Series C Preferred Stock to the Trust, the Trust will obtain control of AIG. The issuance of AIG’s Series C Preferred Stock may be deemed a change of control of AIG. Whether the issuance of AIG’s Series C Preferred Stock will constitute a change in control of the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any of such Arrangements is dependent upon the specific provisions thereof. Based upon the facts and circumstances known to TRH as of the date hereof, TRH does not believe that the exercise of 25 rights, if any, accruing to regulators and counterparties as a result of the issuance of AIG’s Series C Preferred Stock will have a material impact on TRH. TRH’s business may continue to be adversely affected by AIG’s recent liquidity problems. TRH’s business depends upon the financial stability (both actual and perceived) of the Company and its subsidiaries. AIG’s recent liquidity problems may continue to negatively affect perceptions of TRH’s ability to meet its financial obligations. Perceptions that TRH or its subsidiaries may not be able to meet their obligations could negatively impact TRH’s business in many ways including, among others: • rating downgrades by major rating agencies (see above for the potential implications to TRH of rating agency downgrades); • customers and other parties being more cautious about doing business with TRH; and • requests by customers and other parties to terminate or renegotiate existing contractual relationships. As part of AIG’s recent liquidity problems AIG entered into AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement with the NY Fed (see Relationship with the AIG Group–Recent Actions by AIG which Impact TRH). AIG pledged 17.1 million shares of the Company’s common stock held directly by AIG to secure its obligations under AIG’s Fed Credit Agreement. In the event that the NY Fed were to perfect its interest and take control of the shares of the Company pledged to secure AIG’s obligations, TRH may be further negatively impacted as some companies may be restricted from doing business with or may become more cautious about doing business with TRH or its subsidiaries. If TRH’s risk management methods and pricing models are not effective, TRH’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. TRH’s property and casualty reinsurance contracts cover unpredictable events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, fires, industrial explosions, freezes, riots, floods and other natural or man-made disasters, including those that may result from terrorist activity. TRH is also exposed to multiple insured losses arising out of a single occurrence that have the potential to accumulate to material amounts and affect multiple risks/programs and classes of business. TRH uses modeling techniques to manage certain of such risks to acceptable limits, although current techniques used to estimate the exposure may not accurately predict the probability of such an event nor the extent of resulting losses. In addition, TRH may purchase retrocession protection designed to limit the amount of losses that TRH may incur. Retrocession arrangements do not relieve TRH from its obligations to the insurers and reinsurers from whom it assumes business. The failure of retrocessionnaires to honor their obligations could result in losses to TRH. Moreover, from time to time, market conditions may limit and in some cases prevent reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their risk management. It is likely that TRH will face more difficulty obtaining certain retrocession protection in the future given current market conditions, and will also be required to pay higher prices for such protections than in the recent past. If TRH is unable to obtain retrocessional coverage in the amounts it desires or on acceptable terms, TRH’s capacity and appetite for risk could change, and TRH’s financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Various provisions of TRH’s contracts, such as limitations to or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may not be enforceable in the manner TRH intends, due to, among other things, disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum. Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently difficult to predict and beyond TRH’s control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed TRH’s expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 The property and casualty reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and TRH expects to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable pricing. Historically, property and casualty reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting and investment results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic and market conditions, all of which affect ceding companies’ decisions as to the amount or portion of risk that they retain for their own accounts and consequently how much they decide to cede to reinsurance companies. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses, and levels of industry surplus, among other factors, that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the reinsurance industry. In addition, the supply of reinsurance is affected by a reinsurer’s confidence in its ability to accurately assess the probability of expected underwriting outcomes, particularly as respects catastrophe losses. As a result, the property and casualty reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable pricing. The cyclical trends in the industry and the industry’s profitability can also be affected significantly by volatile and unpredictable developments, including what TRH believes to be a trend of courts to grant increasingly larger awards for certain damages, changes in the political, social or economic environment, natural disasters (such as catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods), man-made disasters (such as those arising from terrorist activities), fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of and returns on investments and inflationary pressures that may affect the size of losses experienced by primary insurers. TRH cannot predict whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. Unfavorable market conditions may affect TRH’s ability to write reinsurance at rates that it considers appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If TRH cannot write property and casualty reinsurance at appropriate rates, its ability to transact reinsurance business would be significantly and adversely affected. Increased competition could adversely affect TRH’s profitability. The property and casualty reinsurance industry is highly competitive in virtually all lines. TRH could face increased competition from new market entrants, existing market participants devoting additional capital to the types of business written by TRH, alternatives to reinsurance available to cedants, such as capital market alternatives, and government sponsored reinsurance entities. Competition in the types of reinsurance in which TRH is engaged is based on many factors, including the perceived overall financial strength of the reinsurer, the ratings of Best, S&P and Moody’s, the states or other jurisdictions where the reinsurer is licensed, accredited, authorized or can serve as a reinsurer, capacity and coverages offered, premiums charged, specific terms and conditions of the reinsurance offered, services offered, speed of claims payment and reputation and experience in the lines of business underwritten. TRH competes in the United States and international reinsurance markets with numerous major international reinsurance companies and numerous domestic reinsurance companies, some of which have greater resources than TRH or operate in different regulatory jurisdictions and tax environments. TRH’s competitors include independent reinsurance companies, subsidiaries or affiliates of established worldwide insurance companies, reinsurance departments of certain primary insurance companies, domestic and European underwriting syndicates and in some instances with government owned or subsidized facilities. Certain of these competitors have been operating substantially longer than TRH has and have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the industry, which can be a significant competitive advantage. Traditional reinsurers as well as capital market participants from time to time produce alternative products or reinsurance vehicles (such as reinsurance securitizations, catastrophe bonds, various derivatives such as swaps and sidecars) that may compete with certain types of reinsurance, such as property catastrophe. Hedge funds may provide reinsurance and retrocessional protections through captive companies or other alternative transactions on a fully collateralized basis for property and 27 energy catastrophe business. Over time, these numerous initiatives could significantly affect supply, pricing and competition in the reinsurance industry. In December 2006, the Florida legislature adopted legislation, since signed into law, which directed the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund to more than double its catastrophe reinsurance fund limit. The rate for this coverage is mandated to be significantly below the prevailing market rate. The same law froze current property insurance rates and imposed a moratorium on policy non-renewals. Several other Southeast states have publicly indicated that they are considering similar proposals. While TRH cannot predict the full impact of this law, given TRH’s historical participation in this market, TRH does not presently expect the impact of this legislation to materially reduce its premiums assumed. However, this measure will likely reduce the demand for catastrophe reinsurance within the Florida market and may compel current market participants to seek greater participation in other regions and thus increase competition in other regions such as Latin America, the Caribbean, and the Coastal Mid-Atlantic and New England states. A limited number of brokers account for a large portion of TRH’s revenues; the loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by them may have an adverse effect on TRH. The great majority of TRH’s business from non-affiliates is written through brokers. In 2008, companies controlled by Aon and Marsh accounted for 27% and 15% of TRH’s consolidated revenues, respectively, and, accounted for 25% and 14%, respectively, of total gross premiums written. In addition, TRH’s largest 10 brokers accounted for 58% of total gross premiums written in 2008. These brokers also have, or may in the future acquire, ownership interests in insurance and reinsurance companies that may compete with TRH. The loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by TRH’s brokers could have a material adverse effect on TRH. Liquidity risk represents the potential inability of TRH to meet all payment obligations when they become due. TRH’s liquidity could be impaired by unforeseen significant outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances specific to TRH or that TRH may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or TRH. The Company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit TRH’s ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from its subsidiaries. In particular, certain of TRH’s branches or subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including those in foreign jurisdictions, that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce transfers of funds to the home office in the U.S. or its affiliates. These laws and regulations may hinder TRH’s ability to access funds that TRH may need to make payments on its obligations. Certain of TRH’s investments may become illiquid. TRH’s investments include fixed maturities (including asset-backed securities), equity investments and limited partnerships (including hedge funds and private equities). The current disruption in the credit and financial markets may materially affect the liquidity of TRH’s investments, including residential mortgage-backed securities which represent 3% of total investments. If TRH requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements in a period of market illiquidity, then TRH may have difficulty selling investments in a timely manner or may be forced to dispose of them for less than what TRH might otherwise have been able to under other conditions. Furthermore, TRH does not currently have a credit facility to help it respond to any liquidity problems it may encounter, and expects that it will be difficult to obtain a credit facility in the short-term. In addition, the current disruptions in the credit and financial markets, combined with the recent decline in the Company’s stock price, will make it more difficult for TRH to raise cash in the capital markets. Concentration of TRH’s investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects. Concentration of TRH’s investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries, asset classes, such as residential mortgage-backed securities, or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on the investment portfolios and consequently on TRH’s consolidated results of 28 operations or financial condition. While TRH seeks to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified. Further, TRH’s ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. The valuation of TRH’s investments includes methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations; these differing interpretations could result in changes to investment valuations that may adversely affect TRH’s results of operations or financial condition. The vast majority of TRH’s investments are fixed maturity investments which are subject to the classification provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”). SFAS 157 requires assets recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet to be measured and classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three “levels” based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair values. Level 1 assets use fair value measurements that are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that TRH has the ability to access for identical assets. Level 2 assets use fair value measurements based on inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets in active markets and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset, such as interest rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level 3 assets use fair value measurements based on valuation techniques that use significant inputs that are unobservable. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and trade. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of the securities in TRH’s investment portfolio, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. In addition, prices provided by independent pricing services and independent broker quotes can vary widely even for the same security. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated, thereby resulting in values which may be greater or less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within TRH’s consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on TRH’s results of operations or financial condition. The determination of the amount of impairments taken on TRH’s investments is subjective and could materially impact TRH’s results of operations or financial position. The determination that a security has incurred an other-than-temporary decline in value requires the judgment of TRH’s management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer, its near-term prospects and all relevant facts and circumstances. At each balance sheet date, TRH evaluates its securities holdings with unrealized losses. When TRH does not intend to hold such securities until they have recovered their cost basis, TRH records the unrealized loss in income as a realized capital loss. If a loss is recognized from a sale subsequent to a balance sheet date pursuant to changes in circumstances, the loss is recognized in the period in 29 which the intent to hold the securities to recovery no longer exists. There can, however, be no assurance that TRH has accurately assessed the level of impairments reflected in its financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. An investment is impaired if its fair value falls below its cost or amortized cost. The determination of whether an impairment is other-than-temporary is subjective and involves the considerable judgment and the consideration of various factors and circumstances. The significant factors include: • the severity of the decline in fair value • the length of time the fair value is below cost • issuer financial condition, including profitability and cash flows • credit status of the issuer • the issuer’s specific and general competitive environment • published reports • general economic environment • regulatory and legislative environment • other factors as may become available from time to time The impact of governmental actions made in response to the economic crisis on TRH is difficult to determine at this time. In response to the financial crises affecting the credit and financial markets and concern about financial institutions’ ongoing viability, numerous regulatory and governmental actions have been taken or proposed. Within the U.S., the Federal Reserve has taken action through reduced federal funds rates and the expansion of acceptable collateral for its loans to provide additional liquidity. Numerous financial institutions have received and may continue to receive capital both in the form of emergency loans and direct Treasury equity investments. In addition, in February 2009, the U.S. Congress passed a $787 billion “economic stimulus” plan. Within the United Kingdom and Europe, similar actions including interest rate cuts and capital injections into financial institutions have been undertaken. It is possible that some of our competitors may participate in some of these programs. An additional regulatory concern involving residential mortgage-backed securities is “cram-down legislation” currently under consideration in the U.S. Congress. If passed, this legislation would reallocate losses from defaults on the underlying residential mortgages across all tranches of the security, effectively negating the contractual terms of the security. TRH has investments in residential mortgage-backed securities. Should this legislation become law, certain securities held by TRH at December 31, 2008 could be put at greater risk for loss and could be downgraded to below investment grade by one or more rating agencies. There can be no assurance as to the effect that any such governmental actions will have on the financial markets generally or on TRH’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in particular. Difficult and volatile conditions in the global capital and credit markets and in the overall economy could materially and adversely affect TRH’s operating results, investment portfolio and financial condition. Ongoing disruption and volatility in the global capital and credit markets and in the overall economy affects TRH’s business in a number of ways, including the following: • Disruption in the capital and credit markets may increase claims activity in TRH’s reinsurance lines such as D&O, E&O, credit and, to a limited extent, mortgage guaranty business; • Significant fluctuations in the fixed maturities, asset-backed securities and equities markets could reduce TRH’s investment returns and the value of its investment portfolio; and • Volatility in the capital and credit markets makes it more difficult to access those markets, if necessary, to maintain or improve TRH’s financial strength and credit ratings or to generate liquidity. 30 It is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and how TRH’s markets, business and investments will continue to be adversely affected. Accordingly, these conditions could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations in future periods. TRH may be adversely affected by the impact of market volatility and interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. TRH’s principal invested assets are fixed maturity investments and other interest rate sensitive securities, which are subject to the market risk of potential losses from adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads or trading liquidity and may also be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Depending on TRH’s classification of its investments as available for sale or other, changes in the fair value of TRH’s securities are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and/or Statement of Operations. TRH’s investment portfolio is also subject to credit risk resulting from adverse changes in the issuers’ ability to repay the debt or the ability of bond insurers to meet their obligations to provide insurance if an issuer is unable to repay its debt. Moreover, many issuers are facing liquidity pressures as a result of the current economic downturn and, in turn, may be subject to downgrades by the credit rating agencies in the future. These risks could materially adversely affect TRH’s results of operations and/or financial condition. A principal exposure to foreign currency risk is TRH’s obligation to settle claims in foreign currencies. The possibility exists that TRH may incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as TRH ultimately settles claims required to be paid in foreign currencies. To mitigate this risk, TRH also maintains investments denominated in certain foreign currencies in which the claims payments will be made. To the extent TRH does not seek to hedge its foreign currency risk or hedges prove ineffective, the resulting impact of a movement in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect TRH’s results of operations or financial condition. TRH’s businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce TRH’s profitability and limit its growth. The Company’s reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to reinsurers and their stockholders and other investors, and relates to authorization to transact certain lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company’s business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework in the U.S. has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance and reinsurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are re-examining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may be more restrictive than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs. Within the EU, the Directive was to be phased in commencing October 2007 and fully implemented no later than October 2008. As of December 31, 2008, not all EU members have adopted the Directive. The Directive will lift barriers to trade within the EU for companies that are domiciled in an EU country. TRH operates within the EU through a series of foreign branches and continues to evaluate the potential impact of the implementation of the Directive which could vary from country to country. TRH has contacted insurance regulators throughout the EU to ascertain their regulatory intent and to discuss each country’s rule applicable to TRH. Currently, TRH continues to conduct business within the EU through its foreign branches with no significant impact on its operations. As each country within the EU adopts rules implementing the Directive, TRH could be materially affected by the adopted rules. TRH may be required to post additional collateral in EU countries or may need to consider restructuring its business in order to comply with the rules adopted in EU countries implementing the Directive. 31 In addition to the Directive, the EU is phasing in a new regulatory regime for regulation of financial services known as “Solvency II.” Solvency II is a principles based regulatory regime that seeks to enhance transparency, promote uniformity, and encourage a proactive approach to company solvency. It is built on a risk-based approach to setting capital requirement of insurers and reinsurers. Solvency II is scheduled to be introduced for insurers and reinsurers in 2010 and implemented by 2012. TRH could be materially impacted by the implementation of Solvency II depending on the costs associated with implementation by each EU country, any increased capitalization requirements and any costs associated with adjustment to its corporate operating structure. Traditionally, regulatory and legislative changes affecting the insurance and reinsurance industries, as well as the financial services industry as a whole, are conducted in an organized and structured manner usually encompassing the issuance of draft legislation or regulations and a significant period for review, evaluation and comment by the industry and markets. As a result of the displacement in the financial markets and its impact on the insurance and reinsurance industry, legislators and/or regulators may feel compelled to pass new rules in an expedited manner without the normal review periods. The passage of new regulatory rules on an expedited basis may have a materially adverse impact on TRH if those rules increase the cost of doing business or restrict TRH’s ability to underwrite certain lines of business and/or make certain investments without providing TRH with the normal amount of time to review the new rules, assess their impact on TRH and allow TRH to alter its business strategies or restructure in the most efficient manner. TRH’s offices that operate in jurisdictions outside the United States are subject to certain limitations and risks that are unique to foreign operations. TRH’s international operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to licensing requirements, currency, amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of local investment and other matters. International operations and assets held abroad may be adversely affected by political and other developments in foreign countries, including possibilities of tax changes, nationalization and changes in regulatory policy, as well as by consequences of hostilities and unrest. The risks of such occurrences and their overall effect upon TRH vary from country to country and cannot easily be predicted. In addition, TRH’s results of operations and net unrealized currency translation gain or loss (a component of accumulated other comprehensive income) are subject to volatility as the value of the foreign currencies fluctuate relative to the U.S. dollar. Regulations governing constitution of technical reserves and remittance balances in some countries may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets. The decline in the Company’s common stock price and the uncertainty relating to AIG’s continued ownership interest in the Company may prevent TRH from retaining key personnel. TRH relies upon the knowledge and talent of its employees to successfully conduct business. The decline in the Company’s common stock price has reduced the value of equity awards previously made to key employees. In addition, the uncertainty around the continued ownership by AIG of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock may result in competitors seeking to hire TRH’s key employees. TRH has implemented a retention program to seek to keep certain of its key employees, but there can be no assurance that the program is sufficient or will be effective. A loss of key personnel could have a material effect on TRH’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods. The current investigations into certain non-traditional, or loss mitigation, insurance products and other legal matters could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s financial condition or results of operations. Various regulators including the United States Department of Justice (the “DOJ”), the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the Office of the New York State Attorney General (the “NYAG”) and the NYS ID have been conducting investigations relating to certain insurance and reinsurance business practices, non-traditional insurance products and assumed reinsurance transactions within the industry and at AIG. In connection with these investigations, AIG requested 32 that TRH, as a subsidiary of AIG, review its documents and practices, and TRH has cooperated with AIG in all such requests. On February 9, 2006, AIG announced that it reached a resolution of claims and matters under investigation by the DOJ, SEC, NYAG and NYS ID. AIG stated that the settlements resolved investigations conducted by the SEC, NYAG and NYS ID against AIG and concluded negotiations with these authorities and the DOJ in connection with the accounting, financial reporting and insurance brokerage practices of AIG and its subsidiaries, as well as claims relating to the underpayment of certain workers compensation premium taxes and other assessments. As part of these settlements, AIG has agreed to retain, for a period of three years, an independent consultant who will conduct a review that will include, among other things, the adequacy of AIG’s internal controls over financial reporting, the policies, procedures and effectiveness of AIG’s regulatory, compliance and legal functions and the remediation plan that AIG has implemented as a result of its own internal review. TRH, as a subsidiary of AIG, is cooperating with the terms of the settlements that are applicable to TRH. In addition, from time to time, other regulators have commenced, and may in the future commence, investigations into insurance brokerage practices relating to contingent commissions and other industry-wide practices as well as other broker-related conduct, such as alleged bid-rigging, finite insurance and reinsurance transactions and other reinsurance practices. TRH has cooperated, and will continue to cooperate, in producing documents and other information in response to subpoenas and other requests. While TRH does not believe that any of these inquiries will have a material impact on TRH’s business or financial results, it is not possible to predict with any certainty at this time what impact, if any, these inquiries may have on TRH’s business or financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 