Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below could materially affect TRH’s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The occurrence of severe catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flows. Because TRH underwrites property and casualty reinsurance and has large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters, TRH expects that its loss experience will from time to time include infrequent events of great severity. The frequency and severity of catastrophe losses are inherently unpredictable. Consequently, the occurrence of losses from a severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have historically resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and TRH expects that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. If TRH is required to increase its liabilities for loss reserves, TRH’s financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Significant periods of time may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to the ceding company and the reinsurer, and the ceding company’s payment of that loss and subsequent payments to the ceding company by the reinsurer. TRH is required by applicable insurance laws and regulations and U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) to establish liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet for payment of losses and LAE that will arise in the future from its reinsurance products for losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date. Under GAAP, TRH is not permitted to establish liabilities until an event occurs that may give rise to a loss. Once such an event occurs, liabilities are established in TRH’s financial statements for TRH’s losses, based upon estimates of losses incurred by the ceding companies. As a result, only liabilities applicable to losses incurred up to the reporting date may be established, with no allowance for the provision of a contingency reserve to account for expected or unexpected future losses. Losses arising from future events will be estimated and recognized at the time the losses occur. Although TRH annually reviews the adequacy of its established reserves for losses and LAE, there can be no assurance that TRH’s loss reserves will not develop adversely and have a material effect on TRH’s results of operations. To the extent these liabilities may be insufficient to cover actual losses or LAE, TRH will have to add to these liabilities and incur a charge to its earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s financial condition and results of operations. (See MD&A for further discussion of the risks and uncertainties relating to loss reserves.) 19 A downgrade in the ratings assigned to TRH’s operating subsidiaries could adversely affect TRH’s ability to write new business and may adversely impact TRH’s existing agreements. Best, S&P and Moody’s are generally considered to be significant rating agencies with respect to the evaluation of insurance and reinsurance companies. Ratings are used by ceding companies and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. These ratings are subject to periodic review at the discretion of each respective rating agency and may be revised downward or revoked at their sole discretion. Rating agencies also may increase their scrutiny of rated companies, revise their rating standards or take other action. In addition, a ceding company’s own rating may be adversely affected by a downgrade in the rating of its reinsurer or an affiliated company. Therefore, a downgrade of TRH’s rating may dissuade a ceding company from reinsuring with TRH in the future and may influence a ceding company to reinsure with a competitor of TRH that has a higher financial strength rating. Best maintains a financial strength rating of A+ (Superior) and issuer credit ratings of aa– on the Company’s major operating subsidiaries, TRC, Putnam and TRZ. In addition, Best maintains an issuer credit rating of a– for the Company. These financial strength ratings represent the second highest rating level. The issuer credit ratings of the Company’s major operating subsidiaries represent the fourth highest rating level and the issuer credit rating of the Company represents the seventh highest rating level. On February 14, 2008, following the issuance by AIG of a Form 8-K on February 11, 2008, Best placed the issuer credit rating of AIG and the financial strength and issuer credit ratings of certain of AIG’s domestic property/casualty subsidiaries, including the Company, TRC, TRZ and Putnam, under review with negative implications. According to Best, the placement of the financial strength and issuer credit ratings of the Company, TRC, TRZ and Putnam under review with negative implications reflects the fact that these ratings incorporate implicit support from AIG. Following a detailed review of AIG’s year-end 2007 results and further discussion with AIG management, Best has indicated that it will re-evaluate AIG’s and its subsidiaries’ under review status. S&P maintains counterparty credit and insurer financial strength ratings on each of TRC, Putnam and TRZ of AA– (Very Strong). This rating is the fourth highest rating level. The outlook for the AA– rating is presently negative, due to S&P’s view that Transatlantic’s operating performance has produced lower returns in recent years than would be expected at the AA rating level. While describing the conditions that would contribute to a revision back to a stable outlook, S&P also commented that if operating results are below S&P’s expectations, or should Transatlantic be unsuccessful in integrating the economic capital model into the strategic planning process or fail to maintain its disciplined underwriting standards, S&P would review the rating for a possible downgrade. Moody’s maintains an insurance financial strength rating of Aa3 (Excellent) on TRC. The outlook for the rating is stable. This rating is the fourth highest rating level. The Company’s 5.75% senior notes due in 2015 are presently rated A2 by Moody’s, A– by S&P and a– by Best. The outlook for the Moody’s rating is stable. The outlook for the S&P rating is currently negative and the Best rating is under review with negative implications, each for the same reasons as discussed above relative to the other ratings from such rating agencies. If these debt ratings were lowered, future borrowing costs, if any, may increase. A significant portion of TRC’s and TRZ’s in-force treaty contracts as of December 31, 2007 permit the ceding company to cancel the contract if TRC’s or TRZ’s financial strength rating is downgraded below a certain rating level, generally A–. TRC’s and TRZ’s financial strength ratings are at least three levels above the most common trigger point. In addition, contracts may also permit the ceding company to cancel the contract if there is a significant decline in the statutory surplus of TRC, generally of at least 20%. Contracts may contain one or both of the aforementioned contractual provisions, certain other cancellation triggers or other stipulations, such as a requirement to post collateral for all or a portion of TRH’s obligations under the contract if a triggering event occurs. Whether a ceding company would exercise any of these cancellation rights would depend on, among other factors, the reason and extent 20 of such downgrade or surplus reduction, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage, among other factors. When a contract is cancelled on a “cut-off” basis, as opposed to a “run-off” basis, the liability of the reinsurer under policies which became effective under the treaty prior to the cancellation date of such treaty ceases with respect to losses resulting from events taking place on and after said cancellation date. Accordingly, unearned premiums on that business as of the cut-off date are returned to the ceding company, net of a proportionate share of the original ceding commission. In the accounting period of the cancellation effective date, the amount of unearned premiums returned would be recorded as a reduction of gross premiums written with a like reduction in gross unearned premiums with no effect on gross premiums earned. Thus, the canceling of a contract generally has future implications to TRH’s business but rarely affects premiums already earned. TRH cannot predict in advance the extent to which these cancellation rights would be exercised, if at all, or what effect such cancellations would have on TRH’s financial condition or future operations, but such effect potentially could be material. TRH may secure its obligations under its various reinsurance contracts using trusts and letters of credit. TRH may enter into agreements with ceding companies that require TRH to provide collateral for its obligations under certain reinsurance contracts with these ceding companies under various circumstances, including where TRH’s obligations to these ceding companies exceed negotiated thresholds. These thresholds may vary depending on TRH’s ratings and a downgrade of TRH’s ratings or a failure to achieve a certain rating may increase the amount of collateral TRH is required to provide. TRH may provide the collateral by delivering letters of credit to the ceding company, depositing assets into trust for the benefit of the ceding company or permitting the ceding company to withhold funds that would otherwise be delivered to TRH under the reinsurance contract. The amount of collateral TRH is required to provide typically represents all or a portion of the obligations TRH may owe the ceding company, often including estimates made by the ceding company of IBNR claims. Since TRH may be required to provide collateral based on the ceding company’s estimate, TRH may be obligated to provide collateral that exceeds its estimates of the ultimate liability to the ceding company. An increase in the amount of collateral TRH is obligated to secure its obligations may have an impact on TRH’s ability to write additional reinsurance. These ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances, including TRH’s relationship with AIG. Ratings may also be withdrawn at the request of TRH’s management. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. If TRH’s risk management methods and pricing models are not effective, TRH’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. TRH’s property and casualty reinsurance contracts cover unpredictable events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, fires, industrial explosions, freezes, riots, floods and other natural or man-made disasters, including those that may result from terrorist activity. TRH is also exposed to multiple insured losses arising out of a single occurrence that have the potential to accumulate to material amounts and affect multiple risks/programs and classes of business. TRH uses modeling techniques to manage certain of such risks to acceptable limits, although current techniques used to estimate the exposure may not accurately predict the probability of such an event nor the extent of resulting losses. In addition, TRH may purchase retrocession protection designed to limit the amount of losses that TRH may incur. Retrocession arrangements do not relieve TRH from its obligations to the insurers and reinsurers from whom it assumes business, and the failure of retrocessionnaires to honor their obligations could result in losses to TRH. Moreover, from time to time, market conditions may limit and in some cases prevent reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their risk management. It is likely that TRH will face more difficulty obtaining certain retrocession protection in the future, and will also be required to pay higher prices for such protections than in the recent past. If TRH is unable to obtain retrocessional coverage in the 21 amounts it desires or on acceptable terms, TRH’s capacity and appetite for risk could change, and TRH’s financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Various provisions of TRH’s contracts, such as limitations to or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may not be enforceable in the manner TRH intends, due to, among other things, disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum. Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently difficult to predict and beyond TRH’s control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed TRH’s expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The property and casualty reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and TRH expects to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable pricing. Historically, property and casualty reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic and market conditions, all of which affect ceding companies’ decisions as to the amount or portion of risk that they retain for their own accounts and consequently how much they decide to cede to reinsurance companies. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses, and levels of industry surplus, among other factors, that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the reinsurance industry. In addition, the supply of reinsurance is affected by a reinsurer’s confidence in its ability to accurately assess the probability of expected underwriting outcomes, particularly as respects catastrophe losses. As a result, the property and casualty reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable pricing. The cyclical trends in the industry and the industry’s profitability can also be affected significantly by volatile and unpredictable developments, including what TRH believes to be a trend of courts to grant increasingly larger awards for certain damages, changes in the political, social or economic environment, natural disasters (such as catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods), man-made disasters (such as those arising from terrorist activities), fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of and returns on investments and inflationary pressures that may tend to affect the size of losses experienced by primary insurers. TRH cannot predict whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. Unfavorable market conditions may affect TRH’s ability to write reinsurance at rates that it considers appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If TRH cannot write property and casualty reinsurance at appropriate rates, its ability to transact reinsurance business would be significantly and adversely affected. Increased competition could adversely affect TRH’s profitability. The property and casualty reinsurance industry is highly competitive in virtually all lines. TRH faces competition from new market entrants and from existing market participants that devote increasing amounts of capital to the types of business written by TRH. Over the past few years, increased market capacity, domestic and international merger and acquisition activity, the strengthening of Lloyd’s of London’s capital base, and limited catastrophe activity in 2006 and 2007, have added to competitive pressures. As a result of certain 2005 catastrophe events, namely, Hurricane Katrina, the insurance industry’s largest natural catastrophe loss ever, and two subsequent substantial hurricanes, existing insurers and reinsurers raised new capital and significant investments have been made in new insurance and reinsurance companies in Bermuda. The ultimate impact on the market of these events is uncertain. Competition in the types of reinsurance in which TRH is engaged is based on many factors, including the perceived overall financial strength of the reinsurer, the ratings of Best, S&P and Moody’s, the states or other jurisdictions where the reinsurer is licensed, accredited, authorized or can serve as a reinsurer, capacity and coverages offered, premiums charged, specific terms and conditions of the reinsurance offered, services offered, speed of claims payment and reputation and experience in the lines of business underwritten. 22 TRH competes in the United States and international reinsurance markets with numerous major international reinsurance companies and numerous domestic reinsurance companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than TRH. TRH’s competitors include independent reinsurance companies, subsidiaries or affiliates of established worldwide insurance companies, reinsurance departments of certain primary insurance companies, domestic and European underwriting syndicates and in some instances with government owned or subsidized facilities. Certain of these competitors have been operating substantially longer than TRH has and have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the industry, which can be a significant competitive advantage. Traditional reinsurers as well as capital market participants from time to time produce alternative products or reinsurance vehicles (such as reinsurance securitizations, catastrophe bonds, various derivatives such as swaps and sidecars) that may compete with certain types of reinsurance, such as property catastrophe. Capital markets, including hedge funds, have become more active in assuming more reinsurance risk other than from investing in various companies. Numerous hedge funds have provided both pro rata and excess-of-loss reinsurance and retrocessional protections through captive companies or other alternative transactions on a fully collateralized basis for property and energy catastrophe business. Over time, these numerous initiatives could significantly affect supply, pricing and competition in the reinsurance industry. In December 2006, the Florida legislature adopted legislation, since signed into law, which directed the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund to more than double its catastrophe reinsurance fund limit. The rate for this coverage is mandated to be significantly below the prevailing market rate. The same law froze current property insurance rates and imposed a moratorium on policy non-renewals. Several other Southeast states have publicly indicated that they are considering similar proposals. While it is too early to make a prediction of the full impact of this law, given TRH’s historical participation in this market, TRH does not presently expect the impact of this legislation to materially reduce its premiums assumed as a result of the loss of some catastrophe excess-of-loss premiums covering Florida risks. However, this measure will likely reduce the demand for catastrophe reinsurance within the Florida market and may compel current market participants to seek greater participation and thus increase competition in other regions such as Latin America, the Caribbean, and the Coastal Mid-Atlantic and New England states. Liquidity risk represents the potential inability of TRH to meet all payment obligations when they become due. TRH’s liquidity could be impaired by unforeseen significant outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances specific to TRH or that TRH may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or TRH. The Company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit TRH’s ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from its subsidiaries. In particular, certain of TRH’s branches or subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including those in foreign jurisdictions, that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce transfers of funds to the home office in the U.S. or its affiliates. These laws and regulations may hinder TRH’s ability to access funds that TRH may need to make payments on its obligations. Certain of TRH’s investments may become illiquid. TRH’s investments include fixed maturities (including asset-backed and collateralized securities), equity investments and limited partnerships (including hedge funds and private equities). The current disruption in the credit markets may materially affect the liquidity of TRH’s investments, including U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities which represent 2% of total investments and cash. If TRH requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements (which could include the requirement to return significant amounts of collateral in connection with its securities lending activities on short notice) in a period of market illiquidity, then TRH may have difficulty selling investments in a timely manner or may be forced to dispose of them for less than what TRH might otherwise have been able to under other conditions. 23 Concentration of TRH’s investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects. Concentration of TRH’s investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries, asset classes, such as residential mortgage-backed securities, or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on the investment portfolios and consequently on TRH’s consolidated results of operations or financial condition. While TRH seeks to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified. Further, TRH’s ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. TRH may be adversely affected by the current disruption in the global credit markets. During the second half of 2007, disruption in the global credit markets created increasingly difficult conditions in the financial markets. These conditions have resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity and a widening of credit spreads in certain markets. These conditions adversely affected the fair value of certain investment securities held by TRH, particularly those backed by U.S. residential mortgage loans, and could potentially increase claim activity under mortgage guaranty, D&O, E&O and credit reinsurance business TRH has underwritten. It is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and how TRH’s markets, business and investments will continue to be adversely affected. Accordingly, these conditions could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations in future periods. TRH may be adversely affected by the impact of market volatility and interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation on its invested assets. TRH’s principal invested assets are fixed maturity investments and other interest rate sensitive securities, which are subject to the market risk of potential losses from adverse changes in interest rates and may also be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Depending on TRH’s classification of its investments as available for sale, trading or other, changes in the fair value of TRH’s securities are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and/or Statement of Operations. TRH’s investment portfolio is also subject to credit risk resulting from adverse changes in the issuers’ ability to repay the debt or the ability of bond issurers to meet their obligations to provide insurance if an issuer is unable to repay its debt. These risks could materially adversely affect TRH’s results of operations and/or financial condition. A principal exposure to foreign currency risk is TRH’s obligation to settle claims in foreign currencies. The possibility exists that TRH may incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as TRH ultimately settles claims required to be paid in foreign currencies. To mitigate this risk, TRH also maintains investments denominated in certain foreign currencies in which the claims payments will be made. To the extent TRH does not seek to hedge its foreign currency risk or hedges prove ineffective, the resulting impact of a movement in foreign currency exchange rate could materially adversely affect TRH’s results of operations or financial condition. TRH’s businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce TRH’s profitability and limit its growth. The Company’s reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to reinsurers and their stockholders and other investors, and relates to authorization to transact certain lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company’s business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework in the U.S. has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance and reinsurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are re-examining existing laws and regulations, 24 specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may be more restrictive than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs. Within the EU, the Directive was to be phased in commencing October 2007 and fully implemented no later than October 2008. The Directive will lift barriers to trade within the EU for companies that are domiciled in an EU country. TRH operates within the EU through a series of foreign branches and continues to evaluate the potential impact of the implementation of the Directive which could vary from country to country. TRH has contacted insurance regulators throughout the EU to ascertain their regulatory intent and to discuss each country’s rule applicable to TRH. Currently, TRH continues to conduct business within the EU through its foreign branches with no significant impact on its operations. As each country within the EU adopts rules implementing the Directive, TRH could be materially affected by the adopted rules. TRH may be required to post additional collateral in EU countries or may need to consider restructuring its business in order to comply with the rules adopted in EU countries implementing the Directive. In addition to the Directive, the EU is phasing in a new regulatory regime for regulation of financial services known as “Solvency II.” Solvency II is a principles based regulatory regime that seeks to enhance transparency, promote uniformity, and encourage a proactive approach to company solvency. It is built on a risk-based approach to setting capital requirement of insurers and reinsurer. Solvency II is scheduled to be introduced for insurers and reinsurers in 2010 and implemented by 2012. TRH could be materially impacted by the implementation of Solvency II depending on the costs associated with implementation by each EU country, any increased capitalization requirements and any costs associated with adjustment to its corporate operating structure. TRH’s offices that operate in jurisdictions outside the United States are subject to certain limitations and risks that are unique to foreign operations. TRH’s international operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to licensing requirements, currency, amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of local investment and other matters. International operations and assets held abroad may be adversely affected by political and other developments in foreign countries, including possibilities of tax changes, nationalization and changes in regulatory policy, as well as by consequences of hostilities and unrest. The risks of such occurrences and their overall effect upon TRH vary from country to country and cannot easily be predicted. In addition, TRH’s results of operations and net unrealized currency translation gain or loss (a component of accumulated other comprehensive income) are subject to volatility as the value of the foreign currencies fluctuate relative to the U.S. dollar. Regulations governing constitution of technical reserves and remittance balances in some countries may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets. The current investigations into certain non-traditional, or loss mitigation, insurance products and other legal matters could have a material adverse effect on TRH’s financial condition or results of operations. Various regulators including the United States Department of Justice (the “DOJ”), the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the Office of the New York State Attorney General (the “NYAG”) and the NYS ID have been conducting investigations relating to certain insurance and reinsurance business practices, non-traditional insurance products and assumed reinsurance transactions within the industry and at AIG. In connection with these investigations, AIG requested that TRH, as a subsidiary of AIG, review its documents and practices, and TRH has cooperated with AIG in all such requests. On February 9, 2006, AIG announced that it reached a resolution of claims and matters under investigation by the DOJ, SEC, NYAG and NYS ID. AIG stated that the settlements resolved investigations conducted by the SEC, NYAG and NYS ID against AIG and conclude negotiations with these authorities and the DOJ in connection with the accounting, financial reporting and insurance brokerage practices of AIG and its subsidiaries, as well as claims relating to the underpayment of certain workers compensation premium taxes and other assessments. As part of these settlements, AIG has agreed to retain, for a period of three years, an independent consultant who will conduct a review that will include, among other things, the adequacy of AIG’s 25 internal controls over financial reporting, the policies, procedures and effectiveness of AIG’s regulatory, compliance and legal functions and the remediation plan that AIG has implemented as a result of its own internal review. TRH, as a subsidiary of AIG, is cooperating with the terms of the settlements that are applicable to TRH. In addition, from time to time, other regulators have commenced, and may in the future commence, investigations into insurance brokerage practices relating to contingent commissions and other industry-wide practices as well as other broker-related conduct, such as alleged bid-rigging, finite insurance and reinsurance transactions and other reinsurance practices. TRH has cooperated, and will continue to cooperate, in producing documents and other information in response to subpoenas and other requests. While TRH does not believe that any of these inquiries will have a material impact on TRH’s business or financial results, it is not possible to predict with any certainty at this time what impact, if any, these inquiries may have on TRH’s business or financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 