ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSCautionary Factors That May Affect Future ResultsCertain statements contained in, or incorporated by reference in, this report are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which provide current expectations or forecasts of future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “possible,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “seek,” and similar words or expressions. The Company’s forward-looking statements include certain information relating to general business strategy, growth strategies, financial results, liquidity, product development, the introduction of new products, the enhancement of existing products, the potential markets and uses for the Company’s products, the Company’s regulatory filings with the FDA, acquisitions, the development of joint venture opportunities, intellectual property and patent protection and infringement, the loss of revenue due to the expiration on termination of certain agreements, the effect of competition on the structure of the markets in which the Company competes, increased legal, accounting and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance costs, the Company's ability to continue to list its common stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market, defending the Company in litigation matters and the Company’s cost-saving initiatives. The reader must carefully consider forward-looking statements and understand that such statements involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, and may be affected by assumptions that fail to materialize as anticipated. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed, and actual results may vary materially. It is not possible to foresee or identify all factors affecting the Company’s forward-looking statements, and the reader therefore should not consider the following list of risk factors to be an exhaustive statement of all risks, uncertainties or potentially inaccurate assumptions.The Company cautions the reader to consider carefully these factors as well as the specific factors discussed with each specific forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K annual report and in the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). In some cases, these factors have impacted, and in the future (together with other unknown factors) could impact, the Company’s ability to implement the Company’s business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Any expectation, estimate or projection contained in a forward-looking statement may not be achieved.The Company also cautions the reader that forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, but investors are advised to consult any further disclosures by the Company on this subject in the Company’s filings with the SEC. Although it is not possible to create a comprehensive list of all factors that may cause actual results to differ from the Company’s forward-looking statements, the material factors 5Table of Contentsinclude, without limitation, the following:The holder of debt incurred by the Company in connection with its acquisition of BHH intends to declare the entire amount in default.On May 11, 2012, the holder of debt incurred by the Company in connection with its acquisition of BHH informed the Company that it intends to declare the entire amount in default, seek a judgment from a French Court and then enforce the Company’s guarantee for payment. Consequently, the Company has recorded the entire debt of $4,149,516 as a current liability. The Company will not be able to pay the debt in its current form from existing resources. The Company will need to explore all potential options including raising additional funds or selling certain assets in order to pay the debt; there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to successfully achieve these options. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon reaching a reasonable resolution with the debt holder or the ability to access funds to satisfy the debt obligation, as well as the other factors set forth under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Debt History; – Continuing Operations” of this Form 10-K Report. Due to the Company’s history of operating losses, the Company’s auditors are uncertain that the Company will be able to continue as a going concern.The financial statements included in this report have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. The independent auditors’ report issued in conjunction with the financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2012 contains an explanatory paragraph indicating that certain matters (see footnote 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company cannot guarantee that it can generate net income, increase revenues or successfully expand its operations in the future, and if it cannot do so, the Company may not be able to survive, and any investment in the Company may be lost.The Company continues to operate under an austerity plan to stem the recurring losses at Drew (see footnote 15 of the June 30, 2012 consolidated financial statements for additional information on the austerity plan). If the Company is unable to achieve improvement in this area in the near term, it is not likely that the Company’s existing cash and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund activities throughout the next 4 to 6 months without curtailing certain business activities. The Company’s forecast of the period of time through which its financial resources will be adequate to support its operations is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary as a result of a number of other factors, including the factors discussed in these risk factors, including the risk that the holder of debt the Company incurred in connection with its acquisition of BHH will be declared in default.Because the Company’s auditors have expressed a going concern qualification, the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing could be adversely affected.Because of continued losses, negative cash flows and debt payments, the Company has included going concern disclosure in Note 1 to its consolidated financial statements included in this report, addressing substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This going concern disclosure could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain favorable financing terms in the future or to obtain any additional financing if needed. If the Company raises funds in the future, it may be required to raise those funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements at prices or other terms that may not be as favorable as they would absent such qualification. The sale of additional equity and debt securities may result in additional dilution to the Company’s stockholders. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company or at all.The Company continues to have recurring losses from prior acquisitions.Since the acquisition of Drew the Company loaned approximately $29.5 million to Drew. The funds were primarily used to procure components to build up inventory to support the manufacturing process, to pay off accounts payable and debt of Drew, and to expand the sales and marketing and research and development efforts, to fund new product development and underwrite operating losses since its acquisition. The Company cannot rule out that further working capital will be required by Drew. If the Company does not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and stock price will be negatively impacted.Any acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures that the Company effects, if any, could result in financial results that differ from market expectations.In the normal course of business, the Company engages in discussions with third parties regarding possible acquisitions, 6Table of Contentsstrategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. As a result of any such transactions, of which the Company cannot assure that any will occur, the Company’s financial results may differ from the investment community’s expectations in a given quarter. In addition, acquisitions and alliances may require the Company to integrate a different company culture, management team, business infrastructure, accounting systems and financial reporting systems. The Company may not be able to effect any such acquisitions or alliances. The Company may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired business in a way that enhances the performance of the Company’s combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from any expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the Company’s successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including the retention of key employees and the management of facilities and employees in separate geographical areas. These efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert the Company’s attention from other business operations. Also, the Company’s results may be adversely impacted because of acquisition-related costs, amortization costs for certain intangible assets and impairment losses related to goodwill in connection with such transactions. Finally, acquisitions or alliances by the Company may not occur, which could impair the Company’s growth.The Company’s results fluctuate from quarter to quarter.The Company has experienced quarterly fluctuations in operating results and anticipates continued fluctuations in the future. A number of factors contribute to these fluctuations:•Acquisitions, such as Drew and JAS and subsequent integration of the acquired business;•The timing and expense of new product introductions by the Company or its competitors, although the Company might not successfully develop new products and any such new products may not gain market acceptance;•The cancellation or delays in the purchase of the Company’s products;•Fluctuations in customer demand for the Company’s products;•Changes in domestic and foreign regulations;•The gain or loss of significant customers;•Changes in the mix of products sold by the Company;•Competitive pressures on prices at which the Company can sell its products;•Announcements of new strategic relationships by the Company or its competitors;•Fluctuations in royalty income;•Litigation costs and settlements; and•General economic conditions and other external factors such as energy costs.The Company sets its spending levels in advance of each quarter based, in part, on the Company’s expectations of product orders and shipments during that quarter. A shortfall in revenue, therefore, in any particular quarter as compared to the Company’s plan could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. Also, the Company’s quarterly results could fluctuate due to general market conditions in the healthcare industry or global economy generally, or market volatility unrelated to the Company’s business and operating results.The Company’s cost saving initiatives may not be effective, and the Company’s ability to develop products could be adversely affected by reduced research and development.The Company continues to undertake cost-saving initiatives that may not be effective in returning the Company to profitability. If these initiatives are insufficient, additional measures may be necessary. The cost savings initiatives include a reduction in research and development expenses, which could hinder the Company’s ability to update or introduce new products.Failure of the market to accept the Company’s products could adversely impact the Company’s business and financial condition.The Company’s business and financial condition will depend in part upon the market acceptance of the Company’s products. The Company’s products may not achieve market acceptance. Market acceptance depends on a number of factors including:•The price of the products;•The continued receipt of regulatory approvals for multiple indications;•The establishment and demonstration of the clinical safety and efficacy of the Company’s products; and7Table of Contents•The advantages of the Company’s products over those marketed by the Company’s competitors.Any failure to achieve significant market acceptance of the Company’s products will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business.The Company’s products are subject to stringent ongoing regulation by the FDA and similar domestic and foreign health care regulatory authorities, and if the regulatory approvals or clearances of the Company’s products are restricted or revoked, the Company could face delays that would impair the Company’s ability to generate funds from operations.The FDA and similar health care regulatory authorities in foreign countries extensively regulate the Company’s activities. The Company must obtain either 510(K) clearances or pre-market approvals and new drug application approvals prior to marketing any products in the United States. Foreign regulation also requires that the Company obtain other approvals from foreign government agencies prior to the sale of products in those countries. Also, the Company may be required to obtain FDA approval before exporting a product or device that has not received FDA marketing clearance or approval.The Company has received the necessary FDA approvals for all products that the Company currently markets in the United States. Any restrictions on or revocation of the FDA approvals and clearances that the Company has obtained, however, would prevent the continued marketing of the impacted products and other devices. The restrictions or revocations could result from the discovery of previously unknown problems with the product. Consequently, FDA revocation would impair the Company’s ability to generate funds from operations.The FDA and comparable agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and medical device equipment and related disposables, including the obligation to adhere to the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. Compliance with these regulations requires time-consuming detailed validation of manufacturing and quality control processes, FDA periodic inspections and other procedures. If the FDA finds any deficiencies in the validation processes, for example, the FDA may impose restrictions on marketing the specific products until such deficiencies are corrected.The Company has received CE approval on several of the Company’s products that allows the Company to sell the products in the countries comprising the European Community. In addition to the CE mark, however, some foreign countries may require separate individual foreign regulatory clearances. The Company may not be able to obtain regulatory clearances for other products in the United States or foreign markets.The process for obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals underlying clinical studies for any new products or devices and for multiple indications for existing products is lengthy and will require substantial commitments of Company’s financial resources and Company’s management’s time and effort. Any delay in obtaining clearances or approvals or any changes in existing regulatory requirements would materially adversely impact the Company’s business.The Company’s failure to comply with the applicable regulations would subject the Company to fines, delays or suspensions of approvals or clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, injunctions or civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.The success of products with which the Company’s products compete could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business.The Company faces intense competition in the medical device and pharmaceutical markets, which are characterized by rapidly changing technology, short product life cycles, cyclical oversupply and rapid price erosion. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources. The Company’s strategy is to compete primarily on the basis of technological innovation, reliability, quality and price of the Company’s products. Without timely introductions of new products and enhancements, the Company’s products will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case the Company’s revenues and operating results would suffer. The success of the Company’s new product offerings will depend on several factors, including the Company’s ability to:•Properly identify customer needs;•Innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications;•Establish adequate product distribution coverage;•Obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies;8Table of Contents•Protect the Company’s intellectual property;•Successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner;•Manufacture and deliver the Company’s products in sufficient volumes on time;•Differentiate the Company’s offerings from the offerings of the Company’s competitors;•Price the Company’s products competitively;•Anticipate competitors’ announcements of new products, services or technological innovations; and•Anticipate general market and economic conditions.The Company may not be able to compete effectively in the competitive environments in which the Company operates.The Company’s products employ proprietary technology, and this technology may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties.The Company holds several United States and foreign patents for the Company’s products. Other parties, however, hold patents relating to similar products and technologies. If patents held by others were adjudged valid and interpreted broadly in an adversarial proceeding, the court or agency could deem them to cover one or more aspects of the Company’s products or procedures. Any claims for patent infringements or claims by the Company for patent enforcement would consume time, result in costly litigation, divert technical and management personnel or require the Company to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. The Company may become subject to one or more claims for patent infringement. The Company may not prevail in any such action, and the Company’s patents may not afford protection against competitors with similar technology.If a court determines that any of the Company’s products infringes, directly or indirectly, on a patent in a particular market, the court may enjoin the Company from making, using or selling the product. Furthermore, the Company may be required to pay damages or obtain a royalty-bearing license, if available, on acceptable terms.Lack of availability of key system components could result in delays, increased costs or costly redesign of the Company’s products.Although some of the parts and components used to manufacture the Company’s products are available from multiple sources, the Company currently purchases most of the Company’s components and outsourced finished goods from single sources in an effort to obtain volume discounts. Lack of availability of any of these parts, components and finished goods could result in production delays, increased costs or costly redesign of the Company’s products. Any loss of availability of an essential component or finished good could result in a material adverse change to the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the Company’s suppliers are subject to the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. Failure of these suppliers to comply with these regulations could result in the delay or limitation of the supply of parts or components to the Company, which would adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company’s ability to market or sell the Company’s products may be adversely impacted by limitations on reimbursements by government programs, private insurance plans and other third party payers.The Company’s customers bill various third party payers, including government programs and private insurance plans, for the health care services provided to their patients. Third party payers may reimburse the customer, usually at a fixed rate based on the procedure performed, or may deny reimbursement if they determine that the use of the Company’s products was elective, unnecessary, inappropriate, not cost-effective, experimental or used for a non-approved indication. Third party payers may deny reimbursement notwithstanding FDA approval or clearance of a product and may challenge the prices charged for the medical products and services. The Company’s ability to sell the Company’s products on a profitable basis may be adversely impacted by denials of reimbursement or limitations on reimbursement, compared with reimbursement available for competitive products and procedures. New legislation that further reduces reimbursements under the capital cost pass-through system utilized in connection with the Medicare program could also adversely impact the marketing of the Company’s products.Future legislation or changes in government programs may adversely impact the market for the Company’s products.From time to time, the federal government and Congress have made proposals to change aspects of the delivery and financing of health care services. The Company cannot predict what form any future legislation or regulation may take or its impact on the Company’s business. Legislation that sets price limits and utilization controls adversely impact the rate of growth of the markets in which the Company participates. If any future health care legislation or regulations were to adversely impact 9Table of Contentsthose markets, the Company’s product marketing could also suffer, which would adversely impact the Company’s business.The Company may become involved in product liability litigation, which may subject the Company to liability and divert management attention.The testing and marketing of the Company’s products entails an inherent risk of product liability, resulting in claims based upon injuries or alleged injuries or a failure to diagnose associated with a product defect. Some of these injuries may not become evident for a number of years. Although the Company is not currently involved in any product liability litigation, the Company may be party to litigation in the future as a result of an alleged claim. Litigation, regardless of the merits of the claim or outcome, could consume a great deal of the Company’s time and attention away from the Company’s core businesses. The Company maintains limited product liability insurance coverage of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate, with umbrella policy coverage of $5,000,000 in excess of such amounts. A successful product liability claim in excess of any insurance coverage may adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s product liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available to the Company in the future on reasonable terms or at all.The Company’s international operations could be adversely impacted by changes in laws or policies of foreign governmental agencies and social and economic conditions in the countries in which the Company operates.The Company derives a portion of its revenue from sales outside the United States. Changes in the laws or policies of governmental agencies, as well as social and economic conditions, in the countries in which the Company operates could impact the Company’s business in these countries and the Company’s results of operations. Also, economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, and competitive factors such as price competition, business combinations of competitors or a decline in industry sales from continued economic weakness, both in the United States and other countries in which the Company conducts business, could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company is dependent on its management and key personnel to succeed.The Company’s principal executive officers and technical personnel have extensive experience with the Company’s products, the Company’s research and development efforts, the development of marketing and sales programs and the necessary support services to be provided to the Company’s customers. Also, the Company competes with other companies, universities, research entities and other organizations to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of the Company’s executive officers or other technical personnel, or the Company’s failure to attract and retain other skilled and experienced personnel, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s ability to maintain or expand businesses.The market price of the Company’s stock has historically been volatile, and the Company has not paid cash dividends.The volatility of the Company’s common stock imposes a greater risk of capital losses on shareholders as compared to less volatile stocks. In addition, such volatility makes it difficult to ascribe a stable valuation to a shareholder’s holdings of the Company’s common stock. The following factors have and may continue to have a significant impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock:•Acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures that the Company effects, if any;•Announcements of technological innovations;•Changes in marketing, product pricing and sales strategies or new products by the Company’s competitors;•Changes in domestic or foreign governmental regulations or regulatory requirements; and•Developments or disputes relating to patent or proprietary rights and public concern as to the safety and efficacy of the procedures for which the Company’s products are used.Moreover, the possibility exists that the stock market, and in particular the securities of technology companies such as the Company, could experience extreme price and volume fluctuations unrelated to operating performance.The Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock and does not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future.10Table of ContentsCompany is not in compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements.As of June 30, 2012, the Company was not in compliance with these continued listing requirements. On February 15, 2012, the Company received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Staff of the NASDAQ Stock Market (the “Staff”) notifying the Company that it did not comply with the minimum $2,500,000 stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market as set forth in Listing Rule 5550(b). The Company submitted a plan to regain compliance within the 45 calendar days from February 15, 2012 as required by NASDAQ rules. The Staff accepted the Company’s plan to regain compliance and granted the Company until August 13, 2012 to successfully implement it. The Company was unable to successfully implement its compliance plan by the August 13, 2012 deadline. The Company has scheduled a hearing before the Staff to explain its plan for regaining compliance with the listing requirements. The hearing is scheduled for October 4, 2012.In addition, on June 29, 2012, the Company received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Staff indicating that the Company is not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement under the NASDAQ Listing Rules (the "Listing Rules"). The Listing Rules require listed securities to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. If a NASDAQ-listed company trades below the minimum bid price requirement for 30 consecutive business days, it is notified of the deficiency. Based upon the Staff's review, the Company no longer meets this requirement. The Listing Rules provide the Company with a compliance period of 180 calendar days, or until December 26, 2012 in which to regain compliance with this requirement. To regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, the Company must have a closing bid price of $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days during this compliance period. In the event that the Company does not regain compliance within this period, it may be eligible for additional time to regain compliance by satisfying certain requirements. However, if it appears to the Staff that the Company will not be able to cure the deficiency, or if the Company is otherwise not eligible, the Staff will notify the Company that its securities will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. The Company may still appeal the Staff's determination to delist its securities to a Hearing Panel. During any appeal process, the Company's common stock would continue to trade on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The NASDAQ notification letter has no immediate effect on the listing or trading of the Company's common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The Company is currently looking at all of the options available with respect to regaining such compliance.If the Company's Nasdaq listing is terminated the Company will be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board.The impact of terrorism or acts of war could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business.Terrorist acts or acts of war, whether in the United States or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to the Company’s operations, its suppliers, channels to market or customers, or could cause costs to increase, or create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business.The Company’s charter documents and Pennsylvania law may inhibit a takeover.Certain provisions of Pennsylvania law and the Company’s Bylaws could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. These provisions could limit the share price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s Board of Directors is divided into three classes, with directors in each class elected for three-year terms. The Bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. The Company’s Board of Directors may issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval on such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as the Board may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely impacted by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The Company has no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock.There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position and operating results.The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports the Company files with the SEC are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and inventories and related valuation allowances, revenues, expenses and income. This includes estimates, judgments and assumptions for assessing the recoverability of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets, pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued authoritative guidance. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional expenses or impairment charges. Any resulting expense or impairment loss would be recorded as a charge against our earnings and could 11Table of Contentshave a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and operating results.On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including, among others, those relating to:•sales returns;•allowances for doubtful accounts;•inventories and related valuation allowances;•intangible assets and goodwill;•income and other tax accruals;•deferred tax asset valuation allowances;•sales discounts;•warranty obligations; and•accrued lease termination costs•contingencies and litigation.The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The Company’s assumptions and estimates may, however, prove to have been incorrect and the Company’s actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While the Company believes the assumptions and estimates it makes are reasonable, any changes to the Company’s assumptions or estimates, or any actual results which differ from the Company’s assumptions or estimates, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and operating results.Healthcare policy changes, including pending proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on the Company.Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, would impose limitations on the prices the Company will be able to charge for the Company’s products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for its products from governmental agencies or third-party payers. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.Changes in the healthcare industry in the U.S. and elsewhere could adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products as well as the way in which the Company conducts the Company’s business. On March 23, 2010, health reform legislation was approved by Congress and has been signed into law. The reform legislation provides that most individuals must have health insurance, will establish new regulations on health plans, and create insurance pooling mechanisms and other expanded public health care measures.The Company anticipates that out of the reform legislation will come a reduction in Medicare spending on services provided by hospitals and other providers and a form of sales or excise tax on the medical device manufacturing sector. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The Company cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on the Company. However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for the Company’s products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect the Company’s business, possibly materially. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThe Company does not believe there are any unresolved SEC staff comments.