ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results Certain statements contained in, or incorporated by reference in, this report are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which provide current expectations or forecasts of future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “possible,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “seek,” and similar words or expressions. The Company’s forward-looking statements include certain information relating to general business strategy, growth strategies, financial results, liquidity, product development, the introduction of new products, the enhancement of existing products, the potential markets and uses for the Company’s products, the Company’s regulatory filings with the FDA, acquisitions, the development of joint venture opportunities, intellectual property and patent protection and infringement, the loss of revenue due to the expiration on termination of certain agreements, the effect of competition on the structure of the markets in which the Company competes, increased legal, accounting and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance costs, defending the Company in litigation matters and the Company’s cost-saving initiatives. The reader must carefully consider forward-looking statements and understand that such statements involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, and may be affected by assumptions that fail to materialize as anticipated. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed, and actual results may vary 7 Table of Contents materially. It is not possible to foresee or identify all factors affecting the Company’s forward-looking statements, and the reader therefore should not consider the following list of such factors to be an exhaustive statement of all risks, uncertainties or potentially inaccurate assumptions. The Company cautions the reader to consider carefully these factors as well as the specific factors discussed with each specific forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K annual report and in the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). In some cases, these factors have impacted, and in the future (together with other unknown factors) could impact, the Company’s ability to implement the Company’s business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Any expectation, estimate or projection contained in a forward-looking statement may not be achieved. The Company also cautions the reader that forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, but investors are advised to consult any further disclosures by the Company on this subject in the Company’s filings with the SEC. Although it is not possible to create a comprehensive list of all factors that may cause actual results to differ from the Company’s forward-looking statements, the material factors include, without limitation, the following: Any acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures that the Company effects could result in financial results that differ from market expectations. In the normal course of business, the Company engages in discussions with third parties regarding possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. As a result of any such transactions, the Company’s financial results may differ from the investment community’s expectations in a given quarter. In addition, acquisitions and alliances may require the Company to integrate a different company culture, management team, business infrastructure, accounting systems and financial reporting systems. The Company may not be able to effect any such acquisitions or alliances. The Company may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired business in a way that enhances the performance of the Company’s combined businesses or product lines to realize the value from any expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the Company’s successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including the retention of key employees and the management of facilities and employees in separate geographical areas. These efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert the Company’s attention from other business operations. The Company acquired Drew during the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Drew does not have a history of producing positive operating cash flows and, as a result, at the time of acquisition, was operating under financial constraints and was under-capitalized and has continued to negatively impact the Company’s financial results. As Drew is integrated into the Company, management continues to work to reverse the situation, while at the same time seeking to strengthen Drew’s market position. The Company loaned approximately $20 million to Drew. The funds have been primarily used to procure components to build up inventory to support the manufacturing process, to pay off accounts payable and debt of Drew, and to expand the sales and marketing and research and development efforts, to fund new product development and underwrite operating losses since its acquisition. The Company cannot rule out that further working capital will be required by Drew. If the Company does not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and stock price could be negatively impacted. The Company tests goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis and at any other time events occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may be impaired. As a result of this years test, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge to Drew’s operations totaling $9,574,655 for the year ended June 30, 2008 (see footnote 3 of the consolidated financial statements. The determination as to whether a write-down of goodwill is necessary involves significant judgment based on short-term and long-term projections of the Company. The assumptions supporting the estimated future cash flows of the reporting unit, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates, reflect the Company’s best estimates. 8 Table of Contents The Company’s results fluctuate from quarter to quarter. The Company has experienced quarterly fluctuations in operating results and anticipates continued fluctuations in the future. A number of factors contribute to these fluctuations: • Acquisitions, such as Drew and JAS, and subsequent integration of the acquired company, although such acquisitions may not occur; • The timing and expense of new product introductions by the Company or its competitors, although the Company might not successfully develop new products and any such new products may not gain market acceptance; • The cancellation or delays in the purchase of the Company’s products; • Fluctuations in customer demand for the Company’s products; • Fluctuations in royalty income; • The gain or loss of significant customers; • Changes in the mix of products sold by the Company; • Competitive pressures on prices at which the Company can sell its products; • Announcements of new strategic relationships by the Company or its competitors; • Litigation costs and settlements; and • General economic conditions and other external factors such as energy costs. The Company sets its spending levels in advance of each quarter based, in part, on the Company’s expectations of product orders and shipments during that quarter. A shortfall in revenue, therefore, in any particular quarter as compared to the Company’s plan could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. Also, the Company’s quarterly results could fluctuate due to general market conditions in the healthcare industry or global economy generally, or market volatility unrelated to the Company’s business and operating results. The Company’s Cost Saving Initiatives may not be effective. The Company has implemented cost-saving initiatives that may not be effective in returning the Company to profitability. If these initiatives are insufficient, additional measures may be necessary. Failure of the market to accept the Company’s products could adversely impact the Company’s business and financial condition. The Company’s business and financial condition will depend in part upon the market acceptance of the Company’s products. The Company’s products may not achieve market acceptance. Market acceptance depends on a number of factors including: • The price of the products; • The continued receipt of regulatory approvals for multiple indications; • The establishment and demonstration of the clinical safety and efficacy of the Company’s products; and • The advantages of the Company’s products over those marketed by the Company’s competitors. Any failure to achieve significant market acceptance of the Company’s products will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company’s products are subject to stringent ongoing regulation by the FDA and similar health care regulatory authorities, and if the FDA’s approvals or clearances of the Company’s products are restricted or revoked, the Company could face delays that would impair the Company’s ability to generate funds from operations. The FDA and similar health care regulatory authorities in foreign countries extensively regulate the Company’s activities. The Company must obtain either 510(K) clearances or pre-market approvals and 9 Table of Contents new drug application approvals prior to marketing any products in the United States. Foreign regulation also requires that the Company obtain other approvals from foreign government agencies prior to the sale of products in those countries. Also, the Company may be required to obtain FDA approval before exporting a product or device that has not received FDA marketing clearance or approval. The Company has received the necessary FDA approvals for all products that the Company currently markets in the United States. Any restrictions on or revocation of the FDA approvals and clearances that the Company has obtained, however, would prevent the continued marketing of the impacted products and other devices. The restrictions or revocations could result from the discovery of previously unknown problems with the product. Consequently, FDA revocation would impair the Company’s ability to generate funds from operations. The FDA and comparable agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and medical device equipment and related disposables, including the obligation to adhere to the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. Compliance with these regulations requires time-consuming detailed validation of manufacturing and quality control processes, FDA periodic inspections and other procedures. If the FDA finds any deficiencies in the validation processes, for example, the FDA may impose restrictions on marketing the specific products until such deficiencies are corrected. The Company has received CE approval on several of the Company’s products that allows the Company to sell the products in the countries comprising the European Community. In addition to the CE mark, however, some foreign countries may require separate individual foreign regulatory clearances. The Company may not be able to obtain regulatory clearances for other products in the United States or foreign markets. The process for obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals underlying clinical studies for any new products or devices and for multiple indications for existing products is lengthy and will require substantial commitments of Company’s financial resources and Company’s management’s time and effort. Any delay in obtaining clearances or approvals or any changes in existing regulatory requirements would materially adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company’s failure to comply with the applicable regulations would subject the Company to fines, delays or suspensions of approvals or clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, injunctions or civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of competitive products could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company faces intense competition in the medical device and pharmaceutical markets, which are characterized by rapidly changing technology, short product life cycles, cyclical oversupply and rapid price erosion. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources. The Company’s strategy is to compete primarily on the basis of technological innovation, reliability, quality and price of the Company’s products. Without timely introductions of new products and enhancements, the Company’s products will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case the Company’s revenues and operating results would suffer. The success of the Company’s new product offerings will depend on several factors, including the Company’s ability to: • Properly identify customer needs; • Innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; • Establish adequate product distribution coverage; • Obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies; • Protect the Company’s intellectual property; 10 Table of Contents • Successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; • Manufacture and deliver the Company’s products in sufficient volumes on time; • Differentiate the Company’s offerings from the offerings of the Company’s competitors; • Price the Company’s products competitively; • Anticipate competitors’ announcements of new products, services or technological innovations; and • Anticipate general market and economic conditions. The Company cannot ensure that the Company will be able to compete effectively in the competitive environments in which the Company operates. The Company’s products employ proprietary technology, and this technology may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. The Company holds several United States and foreign patents for the Company’s products. Other parties, however, hold patents relating to similar products and technologies. If patents held by others were adjudged valid and interpreted broadly in an adversarial proceeding, the court or agency could deem them to cover one or more aspects of the Company’s products or procedures. Any claims for patent infringements or claims by the Company for patent enforcement would consume time, result in costly litigation, divert technical and management personnel or require the Company to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. The Company may become subject to one or more claims for patent infringement. The Company may not prevail in any such action, and the Company’s patents may not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. If a court determines that any of the Company’s products infringes, directly or indirectly, on a patent in a particular market, the court may enjoin the Company from making, using or selling the product. Furthermore, the Company may be required to pay damages or obtain a royalty-bearing license, if available, on acceptable terms. Lack of availability of key system components could result in delays, increased costs or costly redesign of the Company’s products. Although some of the parts and components used to manufacture the Company’s products are available from multiple sources, the Company currently purchases most of the Company’s components from single sources in an effort to obtain volume discounts. Lack of availability of any of these parts and components could result in production delays, increased costs or costly redesign of the Company’s products. Any loss of availability of an essential component could result in a material adverse change to the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the Company’s suppliers are subject to the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. Failure of these suppliers to comply with these regulations could result in the delay or limitation of the supply of parts or components to the Company, which would adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s ability to market or sell the Company’s products may be adversely impacted by limitations on reimbursements by government programs, private insurance plans and other third party payors. The Company’s customers bill various third party payors, including government programs and private insurance plans, for the health care services provided to their patients. Third party payors may reimburse the customer, usually at a fixed rate based on the procedure performed, or may deny reimbursement if they determine that the use of the Company’s products was elective, unnecessary, inappropriate, not cost-effective, experimental or used for a non-approved indication. Third party payors may deny reimbursement notwithstanding FDA approval or clearance of a product and may challenge the prices charged for the medical products and services. The Company’s ability to sell the Company’s products on a profitable basis may be adversely impacted by denials of reimbursement or limitations on reimbursement, compared with reimbursement available for competitive products and procedures. New 11 Table of Contents legislation that further reduces reimbursements under the capital cost pass-through system utilized in connection with the Medicare program could also adversely impact the marketing of the Company’s products. Future legislation or changes in government programs may adversely impact the market for the Company’s products. From time to time, the federal government and Congress have made proposals to change aspects of the delivery and financing of health care services. The Company cannot predict what form any future legislation may take or its impact on the Company’s business. Legislation that sets price limits and utilization controls adversely impact the rate of growth of the markets in which the Company participates. If any future health care legislation were to adversely impact those markets, the Company’s product marketing could also suffer, which would adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company may become involved in product liability litigation, which may subject the Company to liability and divert management attention. The testing and marketing of the Company’s products entails an inherent risk of product liability, resulting in claims based upon injuries or alleged injuries or a failure to diagnose associated with a product defect. Some of these injuries may not become evident for a number of years. Although the Company is not currently involved in any product liability litigation, the Company may be party to litigation in the future as a result of an alleged claim. Litigation, regardless of the merits of the claim or outcome, could consume a great deal of the Company’s time and attention away from the Company’s core businesses. The Company maintains limited product liability insurance coverage of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate, with umbrella policy coverage of $5,000,000 in excess of such amounts. A successful product liability claim in excess of any insurance coverage may adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s product liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available to the Company in the future on reasonable terms or at all. The Company’s international operations could be adversely impacted by changes in laws or policies of foreign governmental agencies and social and economic conditions in the countries in which the Company operates. The Company derives a portion of its revenue from sales outside the United States. Changes in the laws or policies of governmental agencies, as well as social and economic conditions, in the countries in which the Company operates could impact the Company’s business in these countries and the Company’s results of operations. Also, economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, and competitive factors such as price competition, business combinations of competitors or a decline in industry sales from continued economic weakness, both in the United States and other countries in which the Company conducts business, could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company is dependent on its management and key personnel to succeed. The Company’s principal executive officers and technical personnel have extensive experience with the Company’s products, the Company’s research and development efforts, the development of marketing and sales programs and the necessary support services to be provided to the Company’s customers. Also, the Company competes with other companies, universities, research entities and other organizations to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of the Company’s executive officers or other technical personnel, or the Company’s failure to attract and retain other skilled and experienced personnel, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s ability to maintain or expand businesses. 12 Table of Contents The market price of the Company’s stock has historically been volatile, and the Company has not paid cash dividends. The volatility of the Company’s common stock imposes a greater risk of capital losses on shareholders as compared to less volatile stocks. In addition, such volatility makes it difficult to ascribe a stable valuation to a shareholder’s holdings of the Company’s common stock. The following factors have and may continue to have a significant impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock: • Any acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures that the Company effects, if any; • Announcements of technological innovations; • Changes in marketing, product pricing and sales strategies or new products by the Company’s competitors; • Changes in domestic or foreign governmental regulations or regulatory requirements; and • Developments or disputes relating to patent or proprietary rights and public concern as to the safety and efficacy of the procedures for which the Company’s products are used. Moreover, the possibility exists that the stock market, and in particular the securities of technology companies such as the Company, could experience extreme price and volume fluctuations unrelated to operating performance. The Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock and does not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The impact of terrorism or acts of war could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Terrorist acts or acts of war, whether in the United States or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to the Company’s operations, its suppliers, channels to market or customers, or could cause costs to increase, or create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company’s charter documents and Pennsylvania law may inhibit a takeover. Certain provisions of Pennsylvania law and the Company’s Bylaws could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. These provisions could limit the share price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s Board of Directors is divided into three classes, with directors in each class elected for three-year terms. The Bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. The Company’s Board of Directors may issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval on such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as the Board may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely impacted by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The Company has no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position and operating results. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports the Company files with the SEC are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. This includes estimates, judgments and 13 Table of Contents assumptions for assessing the recoverability of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets, pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional expenses or impairment charges. Any resulting expense or impairment loss would be recorded as a charge against our earnings and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and operating results. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including, among others, those relating to: • product returns; • allowances for doubtful accounts; • inventories and related reserves; • intangible assets and goodwill; • income and other tax accruals; • deferred tax asset valuation allowances; • discounts and allowances; • warranty obligations; and • contingencies and litigation. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The Company’s assumptions and estimates may, however, prove to have been incorrect and the Company’s actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While the Company believes the assumptions and estimates it makes are reasonable, any changes to the Company’s assumptions or estimates, or any actual results which differ from the Company’s assumptions or estimates, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and operating results. The Company will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company anticipates spending a substantial amount of management time and resources to comply with changing laws, rules, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and regulations promulgated by the SEC. Under the current and proposed rules and regulations of the SEC, the Company is currently not required to comply with all of the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 until the Company files its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Company’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, as long as the Company continues to meet the definition of a non-accelerated filer. In the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30, 2008, the Company’s management is required to provide an assessment as to the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, which assessment will be deemed furnished to rather than filed with the SEC. In the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30, 2010 and for each fiscal year thereafter, the Company’s management will be required to provide an assessment as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm will be required to provide an attestation as to the Company’s management’s assessment, which assessment and attestation will be filed with the SEC. The assessment and attestation processes required by Section 404 are relatively new to the Company. Accordingly, the Company may encounter problems or delays in completing its 14 Table of Contents obligations and receiving an unqualified report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. While the Company believes that it will be able to timely meet the Company’s obligations under Section 404 and that the Company’s management will be able to certify as to the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to do so. If the Company is unable to timely comply with Section 404, the Company’s management is unable to certify as to the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting or the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest to that certification, the price of the Company’s common stock may be adversely affected. Even if the Company timely meets the certification and attestation requirements of Section 404, it is possible that the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm will advise the Company that they have identified significant deficiencies and/or material weaknesses, which may also adversely affect the price of our common stock. Substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities are held at a single financial institution. Substantially all of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are presently held at one national financial institution. Accordingly, the Company is subject to credit risk if this financial institution is unable to repay the balance in the account or deliver the Company’s securities or if the financial institution should become bankrupt or otherwise insolvent. Any of the above events could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: The Company does not believe there are any unresolved SEC staff comments. 