ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by the Company, including its common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. The Company’s business may be adversely impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the recession that the United States now finds itself in, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which the Company does business could have one or more of the following material adverse impacts on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations: • An impairment of securities in our investment portfolio; • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by the Company; • A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to the Company. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. Current market developments may adversely impact the Company’s industry and business. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by the Company and other financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the financial services industry and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to liquidity risks. The Company maintains liquidity primarily through customer deposits and other funding sources. If economic influences change so that we do not have access to short-term credit, or our depositors withdraw a substantial amount of their funds for other uses, the Company might experience liquidity issues. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in our liquidity. In such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to sell a portion of our investment and/or loan portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in our realizing a loss. - 19 - Table of Contents The soundness of other financial institutions, including the FHLB, could adversely impact the Company. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of counterparty relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. An important counterparty for the Company, in terms of liquidity, is the FHLBNY, which the Company uses as its primary source of long-term wholesale funding. At December 31, 2009, the Company had a total of $30.1 million in borrowed funds with FHLBNY. There are twelve regional branches of the FHLB, including FHLBNY. Several members have warned that they have either breached risk-based capital requirements or that they are close to breaching those requirements. To conserve capital, some FHLB branches are suspending dividends, cutting dividend payments, and not buying back excess FHLB stock that members hold. FHLBNY has stated that they expect to be able to continue to pay dividends, redeem excess capital stock, and provide competitively priced advances in the future. The most severe problems in the FHLB system have been at some of the other FHLB branches. Nonetheless, the twelve FHLB branches are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of debt, other FHLB branches may be called upon to make the payment. As a member of the FHLB system, the Company is required to hold stock in FHLBNY. The carrying value and fair value of the Company’s FHLBNY common stock as of December 31, 2009 was $3.3 million based on its par value. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of an FHLB, including FHLBNY, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for the Company’s FHLBNY common stock, there is a risk that the investment could be determined to be impaired in the future. Deterioration in the soundness of FHLBNY or the FHLB system could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company’s municipal bond portfolio may be adversely affected by the political, economic and legislative environment in New York State. Approximately 20% of our investment securities portfolio at December 31, 2009, is comprised of municipal securities issued by or on behalf of New York and its political subdivisions, agencies or instrumentalities, the interest on which is exempt from regular federal income tax. Risks associated with investing in municipal securities include political, economic and regulatory factors which may affect the issuers. In response to the current national economic downturn, governmental cost burdens may be reallocated among federal, state and local governments. In addition, laws enacted in the future by Congress or state legislatures or referenda could extend the time for payment of principal and/or interest, or impose other constraints on enforcement of such obligations, or on the ability of municipalities to levy taxes. Other factors including national economic, social and environmental policies and conditions, which are not within the control of the issuers of the bonds, could affect or have an adverse impact on the financial condition of the issuers. Issuers of municipal securities might seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. Investments in municipal securities are subject to the risk that the issuer could default on its obligations. Such a default could result from the inadequacy of the sources of revenues from which interest and principal payments are to be made or the assets collateralizing such obligations. The current fiscal situation in New York may lead nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in New York’s debt obligations. However, the fallout from the recent budgetary crisis and a possible ratings downgrade could adversely affect the value of New York’s obligations, which could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The value of certain securities in the Company’s investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. In addition to interest rate risk typically associated with an investment portfolio, the market for certain investment securities held within the Company’s investment portfolio has, over the past year, become much less liquid. This coupled with uncertainty surrounding the credit risk associated with the underlying collateral has caused material discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. The Company values some of its investments using internally developed cash flow and valuation models, which include certain subjective estimates which are believed to reflect the estimates a purchaser of such securities would use if such a transaction were to occur. The volatile market may affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairments of these assets, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. - 20 - Table of Contents The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA may adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain its highest performing employees. The limitations placed on incentive compensation in the interim final TARP regulations issued under the ARRA have created restrictions on the amount and form of incentive compensation that may impact negatively the Company’s ability to create a compensation structure that permits it to retain its highest performing employees. Participants in the CPP are subject to certain restrictions on dividends, repurchases of common stock and executive compensation. The Company is subject to restrictions on dividends, repurchases of common stock, and executive compensation. Compliance with these restrictions and other restrictions may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. Additionally, any reduction of, or the elimination of, the Company’s common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The current restrictions, as well as any possible future restrictions, associated with participation in the CPP could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations. Negative perceptions associated with our continued participation in the Treasury’s TARP may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors, and compete for new business opportunities. Several financial institutions which also participated in the CPP have repurchased their TARP preferred stock. There can be no assurance as to the timing or manner in which the Company may repurchase its TARP preferred stock from the Treasury. Our customers, employees and counterparties in our current and future business relationships could draw negative implications regarding the strength of the Company as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the TARP following the exit of one or more of our competitors or other financial institutions. Any such negative perceptions could impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. If this were to occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. The Company has not yet attempted to obtain permission to repay TARP funds. In order to repay the TARP funds we received, we must first receive approval from our primary federal regulator who will then forward our application to the Treasury. To date, we have not attempted to obtain the necessary governmental approval to repay such funds. Until we repay our TARP funds, we will continue to be subject to the constraints imposed on us by the federal government in connection with such funds. FDIC insurance premiums may increase materially. During 2008 and continuing in 2009, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC, and depleted the DIF. In addition, the FDIC and the U.S. Congress have taken action to increase federal deposit insurance coverage, placing additional stress on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by seven cents for every $100 of deposits beginning with the first quarter of 2009, with additional changes beginning April 1, 2009, which require riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. To further support the rebuilding of the DIF, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on each insured institution, equal to five basis points of the institution’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of September 30, 2009. For our Bank, there was a charge of $923 thousand, which was recorded during the second quarter of 2009. The FDIC has indicated that future special assessments are possible, although it has not determined the magnitude or timing of any future assessments. In December 2009, we paid a pre-payment of the FDIC’s estimated assessment total for the next three years for our Bank, totaling approximately $9.9 million. This amount was included in Other Assets in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009, and will be amortized, subject to adjustments imposed by the FDIC, over the next three years. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums. Our expenses for 2009 were significantly and adversely affected by the increased premiums and the special assessment. These increases and assessment and any future increases in insurance premiums or additional special assessments could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet the Company’s commitments and business needs. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Company’s control, and its financial performance. The Company cannot assure that such capital will be available to it on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit the Company’s access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of FSB or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of the Company’s debt rating, may adversely affect the Company’s capital costs and ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. - 21 - Table of Contents FII is a financial holding company and is dependent on its banking subsidiary for dividends, distributions and other payments. The parent company, FII, is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. FII’s principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to its shareholders and principal and interest on its outstanding debt, is dividends from FSB. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by FSB to the parent company, as well as by FII to its shareholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of New York affect the ability of FSB to pay dividends and other distributions, as well as make loans to FII. The Bank is currently required to obtain approval from the NYS Banking Department for dividend payments. If FSB is unable to make dividend payments to FII and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, FII may not be able to make dividend payments to its common shareholders or principal and interest payments on its outstanding debt. See also the section titled “Supervision and Regulation—Restrictions on Distribution of Subsidiary Bank Dividends and Assets” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Future issuances of additional securities could result in dilution of your ownership. The Company may determine from time to time to issue additional securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. In July 2009, the Company filed a Form S-3 registration statement for issuance of up to $50 million of common stock, where proceeds from an offering would be used for general corporate purposes. Further, the Company may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate its employees. These issuances of the Company’s securities may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. The Company may not pay dividends on its common stock. Shareholders of the Company’s common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as the Company’s Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although the Company has historically declared cash dividends on its common stock, it is not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate its common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock, for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail below. If the Company experiences greater credit losses than anticipated, earnings may be adversely impacted. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral, and provides an allowance for estimated loan losses based on a number of factors. The Company believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if the Company’s assumptions or judgments are wrong, its allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover its actual credit losses. The Company may have to increase the allowance in the future in response to the request of one of its primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of its loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses may vary from the amount of past provisions. Geographic concentration in one market may unfavorably impact the Company’s operations. Substantially all of the Company’s business and operations are concentrated in the Western and Central New York region. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Company’s results depend largely on economic conditions in these and surrounding areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in this market could: • increase loan delinquencies; • increase problem assets and foreclosures; • increase claims and lawsuits; • decrease the demand for our products and services; and • decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with non-performing loans and collateral coverage. Generally, the Company makes loans to small to mid-sized businesses whose success depends on the regional economy. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Adverse economic and business conditions in these market areas could reduce the Company’s growth rate, affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and, consequently, adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and performance. For example, the Company places substantial reliance on real estate as collateral for its loan portfolio. A sharp downturn in real estate values in our market area could leave many of these loans inadequately collateralized. If the Company is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, the impact on the Company’s results of operations could be materially adverse. See also the section titled “Market Area and Competition” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. - 22 - Table of Contents The market price of shares of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate. The market price of the Company’s common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding the Company’s operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: • Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • Developments in the Company’s business or in the financial sector generally; • Regulatory changes affecting the financial services industry generally or the Company’s business and operations; • The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to the Company; • Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by the Company or its competitors; • Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and • Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and the Company’s common stock in particular have, over the past year, and continue to be experiencing significant price and volume volatility. As a result, the market price of the Company’s common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to its operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of the Company’s common stock and may make it more difficult for shareholders to liquidate the common stock. The Company’s market value could result in an impairment of goodwill. The Company’s goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or when triggering events or circumstances indicate impairment may exist. Significant and sustained declines in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, significant declines in the Company’s expected future cash flows, significant adverse changes in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in impairment of goodwill. If impairment of goodwill was determined to exist, the Company would be required to write down its goodwill as a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. For further discussion, see Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 6, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The banking industry’s earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on earning assets, primarily loans and investments, and the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the demand of customers for the Company’s products and services. The Bank is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than interest-earning assets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry competition may have an adverse impact on the Company’s success. The Company’s profitability depends on its ability to compete successfully. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment where certain of its competitors are larger and have more resources. In the Company’s market areas, it faces competition from commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of the Company’s non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern FII or FSB and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. The Company expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, the Company’s ability to market its products and services may be adversely impacted. - 23 - Table of Contents The Company’s deferred tax assets may not ultimately be realized or its tax positions may be subject to challenge by the IRS. The Company’s deferred tax assets may provide significant future tax savings to the Company. The Company’s use of these deferred tax benefits may depend on a number of factors including the ability of the Company to generate significant taxable income; the absence of a future ownership change of the Company that could limit or eliminate the tax benefits; the acceptance by the taxing authorities of the positions taken on the Company’s tax returns as to the amount and timing of its income and expenses; and future changes in laws or regulations relating to tax deductions and net operating losses. The Company assesses the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be realizable based on future taxable income and, if necessary, establishes a valuation allowance for those deferred tax assets determined to not likely be realizable. Management judgment is required in determining the appropriate recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities, including projections of future taxable income. There can be no absolute assurance, however, that the net deferred assets will ultimately be realized. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company depends upon data processing, software, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. Despite instituted safeguards, the Company cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Company relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Company could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. - 24 - Table of Contents 