ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below with respect to an investment in our shares. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash provided by operations could be materially harmed. As a result, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. When evaluating an investment in our Common Stock, you should also refer to the other information in this report, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business Our strategy of opening new retail stores may result in net losses. Our growth strategy includes opening new retail stores. We evaluate demographic, economic and financial information in considering a new store location. We look primarily in markets where we currently have operations to benefit from additional operational and marketing efficiencies of scale. New stores take time to become profitable; we cannot assure you that any individual current or future store will attain or maintain projected profitability. We incurred a loss from continuing operations of $3.3 million or $0.73 per share in fiscal 2009 compared to income from continuing operations of $1.9 million or $0.41 per share in fiscal 2008. We have historically experienced improvement in our retail segment as our stores have become established. As illustrated in Note 15 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” our operating loss from the retail segment was $4.2 million in fiscal 2009 compared to operating income of $0.8 million in fiscal 2008. This decline was the result of opening new factory outlets and an economic slowdown that is discussed later in “Risks Relating to Our 12 Table of Contents Business.” Our full financial information is set out in the consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Most of our revenues are derived from retail sales. However, we expect recycling revenues as a percentage of total revenues will continue to rise in the future. Most of our revenues are derived from retail sales of appliances at our ApplianceSmart Factory Outlet stores. We currently operate nineteen ApplianceSmart Factory Outlet stores. Retail revenues have lower profit margins than recycling revenues. While we believe that our future economic results will be heavily dependent on our retail stores, we have seen a renewed interest in recycling and replacement programs and are pursuing opportunities with providers of energy efficiency services. In fiscal years 2009 and 2008, approximately 74% and 69%, respectively, of our revenues were from retail sales. We believe that recycling revenues will grow faster than retail revenues as we continue to add new recycling contracts. We currently purchase product for resale from a limited number of suppliers. We purchase inventory for resale from three main suppliers. While we believe that our relationships with our vendors are strong, the loss of one of these suppliers could have a negative impact on the amount and mix of product that we would be able to offer for sale, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our revenues from recycling contracts decreased in 2009 due a planned reduction in one of our contracts and future revenues from this source are very difficult to project. In the past, our business was dependent largely upon our ability to obtain new contracts and continue existing contracts for appliance recycling services with utility companies. Contracts with these entities generally have initial terms of one to four years, with renewal options and early termination clauses. The recycling and byproducts portion of our business decreased to 26% from 31% of total revenues for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. This decrease in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 was partially due to a planned reduction in one of our contracts. Although we have experienced an increase in the number of utility companies requesting bids for upcoming appliance recycling programs, we are still dependent on certain customers for a large portion of our revenues. Generally, recycling revenues have a higher gross profit than retail revenues. Three of our major utility customers, Southern California Edison Company, Ontario Power Authority and Southern California Public Power Authority, collectively accounted for approximately 17% and 23% of our total revenues for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The loss or material reduction of business from any of these major customers could adversely affect our net revenues and profitability. However, we believe we will continue to add new recycling contracts in 2010 and beyond. We cannot assure you that our existing recycling contracts will continue, existing customers will continue to use our services at current levels or we will be successful in obtaining new recycling contracts. Our revenues from recycling contracts are subject to seasonal fluctuations and are dependent on the utilities’ advertising and promotional activities for contracts in which we do not provide advertising services. In our business with utility companies, we experience seasonal fluctuations that impact our operating results. Our recycling revenues are generally higher during the second and third calendar quarters and lower in the first and fourth calendar quarters, due largely to the promotional activity schedules over which we have no control in advertising programs managed by the utilities. Our staff communicates client-driven advertising activities internally in an effort to achieve an operational balance. We expect that we will continue to experience such seasonal fluctuations in recycling revenues. We experience less seasonal fluctuation in our retail business. 13 Table of Contents The joint venture we have formed does not have an operating history upon which it can be evaluated. It may never achieve profitable operations. We have formed a 50/50 joint venture, ARCA Advanced Processing, LLC (“AAP”), to operate the initial Regional Processing Center (“RPC”) under our contract with GE. AAP was recently formed and has not commenced operations. AAP is subject to all of the risks associated with a new venture, including the potential for unanticipated expenses, difficulties and delays frequently encountered in connection with the start-up of new businesses, and the competitive environment in which AAP will operate. There is no assurance that AAP will achieve profitable operations. Each additional RPC that may be established in the future will also be subject to the risks associated with a new venture. AAP’s financial performance will be dependent on market prices for recovered materials. AAP’s total revenues will be driven by the market prices for various recovered materials, which include steel, copper, aluminum, other non-ferrous metals, glass, plastic, oil, and certain types of refrigerants. Market prices for such materials may vary significantly. If market prices for such materials are less than projected, AAP may be unable to achieve profitable operations. The volume of appliances under the contract with GE is not guaranteed. The contract with GE is terminable on 60-day notice if a material breach occurs and is not cured. The operations of AAP and the initial RPC will be materially dependent on the volume of appliances from GE. However, GE has not guaranteed any specific volume of appliances under the contract. Also, the RPC will need significant volume in addition to the volume from GE to operate successfully. The contract with GE is for a period of six years from the first date of collection of recyclable appliances from GE’s northeast delivery area, but may be terminated earlier by either party if the other party is in material breach of the contract and does not cure the breach within sixty (60) days after receiving written notice from the other party. A delay in commencing operations at the RPC, or in installing the URT system, could result in a material breach of the contract by us. We may need new capital to fully execute our growth strategy. Our business involves providing comprehensive, integrated appliance recycling services and developing a chain of retail stores. This commitment will require a significant continuing investment in capital equipment and leasehold improvements and could require additional investment in real estate. Our total capital requirements will depend, among the other things discussed in this annual report, on the number of recycling centers and the number and size of retail stores operating during 2010. Currently, we have nineteen retail stores and seven recycling centers in operation. If our revenues are lower than anticipated, our expenses are higher than anticipated or our current line of credit cannot be maintained, we will require additional capital to finance our operations. In addition, we may need to provide additional capital to AAP to establish and fund its operation. Even if we are able to maintain our current line of credit, we may need additional equity or other capital in the future. Sources of additional financing, if needed in the future, may include further debt financing or the sale of equity (including the issuance of Preferred Stock) or other securities. We cannot assure you that any additional sources of financing or new capital will be available to us, available on acceptable terms, or permitted by the terms of our current debt. In addition, if we sell additional equity to raise funds, all outstanding shares of Common Stock will be diluted. A decline in general economic conditions has led to reduced consumer demand for our products and had an adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability. Since purchases of our merchandise are dependent upon discretionary spending by our retail customers, our financial performance is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that affect consumer spending. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, gasoline prices, consumer confidence, and consumer perception of economic conditions. A slowdown in the United States economy or uncertainty as to the economic outlook has reduced discretionary spending or caused a shift in consumer 14 Table of Contents discretionary spending to other products during fiscal year 2009. These factors may likely cause us to delay or slow our expansion plans, may result in reduced sales and potentially result in excess inventories in 2010. This may, in turn, lead to increased merchandise markdowns and related costs associated with higher levels of inventory that could adversely affect our liquidity and profitability in 2010. Our market share may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. Competition for our retail stores comes primarily from retailers of new and special-buy appliances. Each of our locations will compete not only with local and national chains of new appliance retailers, many of whom have been in business longer than we have and who may have significantly greater assets, but will also be required to compete with numerous independently owned retailers of used appliances. A number of our retail operations have been opened within the past 24 months; therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively in any such market. Many factors, including existing and proposed governmental regulation, may affect competition in the appliance recycling and replacement side of our business. We generally compete with two or three companies based in the geographic area to be served, and they generally offer some of the services we provide. We expect our primary competition for contracts with existing or new customers to come from entrepreneurs entering the appliance recycling business, energy management consultants, current recycling companies, major waste hauling companies, scrap metal processors and new- and used-appliance dealers. In addition, some of our customers, such as utility companies, may operate appliance recycling programs internally rather than contracting with us or other third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete profitably in any of our chosen markets. Changes in governmental regulations relating to our recycling business could increase our costs of operations and adversely affect our business. Our appliance recycling centers are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements related to providing turnkey services for energy efficiency programs. These requirements may vary by market location and include, for example, laws concerning the management of hazardous materials and the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act, which require us to recapture CFC refrigerants from appliances to prevent their release into the atmosphere. We have registered our centers with the EPA as hazardous waste generators and have obtained required licenses from appropriate state and local authorities. We have agreements with approved and licensed hazardous waste companies for transportation and recycling or disposal of hazardous materials generated through our recycling processes. As is the case with all companies handling hazardous materials, under some circumstances we may be subject to contingent liability. We believe we are in compliance with all government regulations regarding the handling of hazardous materials, and we have environmental insurance to mitigate the impact of any potential contingent liability. Our lender has the right to demand payment in full of the borrowings under our line of credit at any time. If it were to do so, we would not be able to pursue our growth strategy and our operations would be severely limited unless and until new financing was obtained. We have an $18.0 million line of credit, based on the loan amendment dated February 5, 2008, with a stated maturity date of December 31, 2010. The line of credit also provides that the lender may demand payment in full of the entire outstanding balance of the loan at any time. Except for the one property we own, substantially all assets have been pledged to secure payments under the line. The line requires that we meet certain financial covenants, provides payment penalties for noncompliance and prepayment, limits the amount of other debt we can incur, limits the amount of spending on fixed assets, and limits payments of dividends. On March 1, 2010, borrowings of $10.6 million were outstanding under the line of credit, and we had unused borrowing capacity of $0.8 million. As of January 2, 2010, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants and received a waiver from our lender. On March 10, 2010, the interest rate on the line increased to 6.75% (the greater of prime plus 3.50 percentage points or 6.75%). In 2010, we plan to renegotiate and extend our line of credit. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified personnel or experience turnover of our management team. We believe our operations are materially dependent upon the continued services of our present management. The loss of services of one or more members of present management, including Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, our founder, Chairman of the Board and current CEO, could adversely affect our business. We do not have employment contracts with present management. We maintain key person life insurance on Mr. Cameron in the amount of $1.0 million. We have ongoing litigation surrounding intellectual property issues and have had a claim of infringement in a second law suit dismissed. In December 2004, we filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California alleging that JACO Environmental, Inc. (“JACO”) and one of our former consultants fraudulently obtained U.S. Patent No. 6,732,416 in May 2004 covering appliance recycling methods and systems which were originally developed by us beginning in 1987 and used in serving more than forty-five electric utility appliance recycling programs up to the time the suit was filed. We sought an injunction to prevent JACO from claiming that it obtained a valid patent on appliance recycling processes that we believe is based on methods and processes we invented. In addition, we asked the Court to find that the patent obtained by JACO is unenforceable due to inequitable conduct before the United States Patent Office. We also asked the court for unspecified damages related to charges that JACO, in using the patent to promote its services, engaged in unfair competition and false and misleading advertising under federal and California statutes. In September 2005, we received a legally binding document in which JACO stated it would not sue us or any of our customers for violating the JACO patent. Further, the defendants in the case did not assert any counterclaims against ARCA. In January 2009, the Court granted JACO a summary judgment in ARCA’s lawsuit against the parties. The ruling was made by the same judge who had earlier denied summary judgment to the defendants. Even though the Court’s ruling will have no impact on ARCA’s method of recycling or ability to conduct existing and future business, we filed an appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in California in February 2009 seeking to have the court set aside the summary judgment. We believe the decision by the trial judge was in error and contrary to the law relating to unfair competition and false advertising. We believe we are entitled to our day in court against JACO for damages caused by their actions, and our case is scheduled to be argued before the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals on April 9, 2010. On October 24, 2006, JACO and SEG Umwelt-Service/Basis of Mettlach, Germany (SEG) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in Federal Court in San Francisco against us. The suit claimed that we had been using refrigerator recycling systems and processes covered by two U.S. patents issued to SEG and exclusively licensed to JACO. JACO and SEG sought an undisclosed amount in damages, in addition to an injunction barring us from continuing to use and market the systems and processes upon which we allegedly infringed. This suit was subsequently dismissed following a transfer of the case to Los Angeles upon the motion of ARCA. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock If an active trading market for our Common Stock does not develop, the value and liquidity of your investment in our Common Stock could be adversely affected. The trading volumes in our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market are highly variable. At any given time, there may be only a limited market for any shares of Common Stock that you purchase. Sales of substantial amounts of Common Stock into the public market at the same time could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. 16 Table of Contents Our principal shareholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which will allow them to control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval. Currently, Jack Cameron, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 7.6% of our Common Stock. Our officers and directors together beneficially hold approximately 10.5% of our Common Stock. Medallion Capital, Inc. (“Medallion”) owns approximately 10.7% of our outstanding common shares. Medallion also has a non-voting right to attend and participate in all meetings of our Board of Directors. Perkins Capital Management, Inc. owns approximately 16.2% of our outstanding common shares. Because of such ownership, our management and principal shareholders may be able to significantly affect our corporate decisions, including the election of the Board of Directors. 