Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial results are subject to a number of risks. The factors discussed below are intended to highlight risks that management believes are most relevant to our current operating environment. This listing is not intended to capture all risks associated with our business. Additional risks, including those generally affecting the industry in which we operate, risks that we currently deem immaterial and risks generally applicable to companies that have recently undertaken similar transactions, may also negatively impact our consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations, or liquidity. Asset Quality. A significant source of risk for the Company arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. Most loans originated by the Company are secured, but loans may be unsecured depending on the nature of the loan. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans includes a wide variety of diverse real and personal property that may be affected by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, wide-spread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events. The Company has adopted loan policies with well-defined risk tolerance limits including individual loan officer and committee approval processes. Policies and procedures outline underwriting standards, appraisal requirements, collateral valuations, financial information reviews, and ongoing quality monitoring processes that management believes are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss within the loan portfolio. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Interest Rate Risk. The banking industry’s earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on earning assets, primarily loans and investments, and the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the demand of customers for the Company’s products and services. The Bank is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that 19 Table of Contents interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than interest-earning assets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Changes in the Value of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under accounting standards, the Company is not required to amortize goodwill but rather must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. If deemed impaired at any point in the future, an impairment charge representing all or a portion of goodwill will be recorded to current earnings in the period in which the impairment occurred. The capitalized value of other intangible assets is amortized to earnings over their estimated lives. Other intangible assets are also subject to periodic impairment reviews. If these assets are deemed impaired at any point in the future, an impairment charge will be recorded to current earnings in the period in which the impairment occurred. See also Note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Breach of Information Security and Technology Dependence. The Company depends upon data processing, software, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. Despite instituted safeguards, the Company cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Company relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Company could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Economic Conditions, Limited Geographic Diversification. The Company’s banking operations are located in Western and Central New York State. Because of the geographic concentration of its operations, the Company’s results depend largely upon economic conditions in this area, which include volatility in wholesale milk prices, losses of manufacturing jobs in Rochester and Buffalo, and minimal population growth throughout the region. Further deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect the quality of the Company’s loan portfolio and the demand for its products and services, and accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also the section titled “Market Area and Competition.” Ability of the Company to Execute Its Business Strategy. The financial performance and profitability of the Company will depend on its ability to execute its strategic plan and manage its future growth. Failure to execute these plans could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Moreover, the Company’s future performance is subject to a number of factors beyond its control, including pending and future federal and state banking legislation, regulatory changes, unforeseen litigation outcomes, inflation, lending and deposit rate changes, interest rate fluctuations, increased competition and economic conditions. Accordingly, these issues could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Dependence on Key Personnel. The Company’s success depends to a significant extent on the management skills of its existing executive officers and directors, many of whom have held officer and director positions with the Company for many years. The loss or unavailability of any of its key personnel, including Erland E. Kailbourne, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Peter G. Humphrey, President and Chief Executive Officer, James T. Rudgers, Executive Vice President and Chief of Community Banking, Ronald A. Miller, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, George D. Hagi, Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer, John J. Witkowski, Senior Vice President and Regional President/Retail Banking Executive, Martin K. Birmingham, Senior Vice President and Regional President/Commercial Market Executive, Kevin B. Klotzbach, Senior Vice President and Treasurer, Bruce H. Nagle, Senior Vice President and Director of Human Resources and Richard J. Harrison, Senior Vice President and Senior Retail Lending Administrator, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also Part III, Item 10, “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.” Competition. National competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to financial and capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services than the Company. There can be no 20 Table of Contents assurance that the Company will be able to compete effectively in its markets. Furthermore, developments increasing the nature or level of competition, together with changes in our strategic plan and stricter loan underwriting standards, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also the sections titled “Market Area and Competition” and “Supervision and Regulation.” Government Regulation and Monetary Policy. The Company and the banking industry are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Company conducts its banking business, undertakes new investments and activities and obtains financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit holders of the Company’s securities. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is in the control of the Company. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions for the Company, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also the section titled “Supervision and Regulation.” Real Estate Market Conditions. If real estate values in the markets the Company serves decline, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. Parts of the country have experienced a significant decline in real estate values that has led, in some cases, to the debt on the real estate exceeding the value of the real estate. The markets the Company serves have not generally experienced, to this point, such conditions. Should deterioration in real estate values in the markets we serve occur, the value and liquidity of real estate securing the Company’s loans could become impaired. While the Company is not engaged in the business of sub-prime lending, a decline in the value of residential or commercial real estate could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Financial and Capital Market Liquidity Disruption. The deteriorating credit quality of assets linked to the sub-prime mortgage market, caused by a decline in general mortgage credit standards, has led to a lack of liquidity and downgrades to certain MBS and other securities in the financial marketplace. This, in turn, has contributed to a broad-based liquidity shortfall in the financial system. The subsequent increase in risk aversion has contributed to a decline in credit availability in the financial and capital markets. A continuation of these credit and liquidity issues may result in reduced liquidity and impairment write-downs on some of our asset holdings. MBS and auction rate preferred equity securities are most affected by and are at most risk for possible future reduced liquidity and impairment write-downs. These financial and capital market disruptions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also the section titled “Investing Activities.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 21 Table of Contents 