ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by the Company, including its common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. The Company’s business may be adversely impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the recession that the United States now finds itself in, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which the Company does business could have one or more of the following material adverse impacts on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by the Company; • A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to the Company. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. Current market developments may adversely impact the Company’s industry and business. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by the Company and other financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the financial services industry and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to liquidity risks. The Company maintains liquidity primarily through customer deposits and other funding sources. If economic influences change so that we do not have access to short-term credit, or our depositors withdraw a substantial amount of their funds for other uses, Five Star Bank might experience liquidity issues. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in our liquidity. In such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to sell a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in our realizing a loss. - 20 - Table of Contents The soundness of other financial institutions, including Federal Home Loan Bank, could adversely impact the Company. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of counterparty relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. The most important counterparty for the Company, in terms of liquidity, is the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”). The Company uses FHLBNY as its primary source of long-term wholesale funding. At December 31, 2008, the Company had a total of $30.7 million in borrowed funds with FHLBNY. There are twelve branches of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”), including New York. Several members have warned that they have either breached risk-based capital requirements or that they are close to breaching those requirements. To conserve capital, some FHLB branches are suspending dividends, cutting dividend payments, and not buying back excess FHLB stock that members hold. FHLBNY has stated that they expect to be able to continue to pay dividends, redeem excess capital stock, and provide competitively priced advances in the future. The most severe problems in the FHLB system have been at some of the other FHLB branches. Nonetheless, the twelve FHLB branches are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of debt, other FHLB branches may be called upon to make the payment. As a member of the FHLB System, the Company is required to hold stock in FHLBNY. The carrying value and fair value of the Company’s FHLBNY common stock as of December 31, 2008 was $3.2 million based on its par value. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of an FHLB, including FHLBNY, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for the Company’s FHLBNY common stock, there is a risk that the investment could be determined to be impaired in the future. Deterioration in the soundness of FHLBNY or the FHLB System could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The value of certain securities in the Company’s investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. In addition to interest rate risk typically associated with an investment portfolio, the market for certain investment securities held within the Company’s investment portfolio has, over the past year, become much less liquid. This coupled with uncertainly surrounding the credit risk associated with the underlying collateral has caused material discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. The Company values some of its investments using internally developed cash flow and valuation models, which include certain subjective estimates which are believed to reflect the estimates a purchaser of such securities would use if such a transaction were to occur. The volatile market may affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairments of these assets, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. FDIC insurance premiums may increase materially. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including FSB. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. In December 2008 and again in February 2009, the FDIC adopted rules that will increase premiums paid by insured institutions and make other changes to the assessment system. Significant increases in deposit insurance premiums could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. There can be no assurance that the EESA and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, the EESA was signed into law by the President. The legislation was the result of a proposal by the Secretary of the Treasury on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The U.S. Treasury and federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the CPP, in which the Company participates. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC’s TLGP. On February 10, 2009, the Secretary of the Treasury announced the Financial Stability Plan, which earmarks the second $350 billion originally authorized under the EESA. The Financial Stability Plan is intended to, among other things, make capital available to financial institutions, purchase certain legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses and relieve certain pressures on the housing market, including the reduction of mortgage payments and interest rates. - 21 - Table of Contents In addition, the ARRA, which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes, among other things, extensive new restrictions on the compensation arrangements of financial institutions participating in TARP. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, as supplemented by the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA, the Financial Stability Plan and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The EESA, ARRA and the Financial Stability Plan are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets and economy or on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA may adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain its highest performing employees. The Company received CPP funds and the ARRA contains restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the five executives named in the Company’s proxy statement. Depending upon the limitations placed on incentive compensation by the final regulations issued under the ARRA, it is possible that the Company may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits it to retain its highest performing employees. If this were to occur, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Participants in the CPP are subject to certain restrictions on dividends, repurchases of common stock and executive compensation. The Company is subject to restrictions on dividends, repurchases of common stock, and executive compensation. Compliance with these restrictions and other restrictions may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. Additionally, any reduction of, or the elimination of, the Company’s common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The current restrictions, as well as any possible future restrictions, associated with participation in the CPP could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet the Company’s commitments and business needs. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Company’s control, and its financial performance. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase the Company’s cost of funding and limit its access to some of its customary sources of capital. The Company cannot assure that such capital will be available to it on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit the Company’s access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Five Star Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of the Company’s debt rating, may adversely affect the Company’s capital costs and ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. FII is a holding company and is dependent on its banking subsidiary for dividends, distributions and other payments. The parent company, FII, is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. FII’s principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to its shareholders and principal and interest on its outstanding debt, is dividends from Five Star Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by FSB to the parent company, as well as by FII to its shareholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of New York affect the ability of FSB to pay dividends and other distributions, as well as make loans to FII. Given the loss recorded at FSB during the year ended December 31, 2008, under New York State Banking Department rules, FSB does not expect to be able to pay dividends to FII in the near term without first obtaining regulatory approval. If FSB is unable to make dividend payments to FII and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, FII may not be able to make dividend payments to its common shareholders or principal and interest payments on its outstanding debt. See also the section titled “Supervision and Regulation—Restrictions on Distribution of Subsidiary Bank Dividends and Assets” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. - 22 - Table of Contents The Company may not pay dividends on its common stock. Shareholders of the Company’s common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as the Company’s Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although the Company has historically declared cash dividends on its common stock, it is not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate its common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock, for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail below. If the Company experiences greater credit losses than anticipated, earnings may be adversely impacted. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral, and provides an allowance for estimated loan losses based on a number of factors. The Company believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if the Company’s assumptions or judgments are wrong, its allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover its actual credit losses. The Company may have to increase the allowance in the future in response to the request of one of its primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of its loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses may vary from the amount of past provisions. Geographic concentration in one market may unfavorably impact the Company’s operations. Substantially all of the Company’s business and operations are concentrated in the Western and Central New York region. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Company’s results depend largely on economic conditions in these and surrounding areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in this market could: • increase loan delinquencies; • increase problem assets and foreclosures; • increase claims and lawsuits; • decrease the demand for our products and services; and • decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with non-performing loans and collateral coverage. Generally, the Company makes loans to small to mid-sized businesses whose success depends on the regional economy. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Adverse economic and business conditions in these market areas could reduce the Company’s growth rate, affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and, consequently, adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and performance. For example, the Company places substantial reliance on real estate as collateral for its loan portfolio. A sharp downturn in real estate values in our market area could leave many of these loans inadequately collateralized. If the Company is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, the impact on the Company’s results of operations could be materially adverse. See also the section titled “Market Area and Competition” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The market price of shares of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate. The market price of the Company’s common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding the Company’s operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: • Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • Developments in the Company’s business or in the financial sector generally; • Regulatory changes affecting the financial services industry generally or the Company’s business and operations; • The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to the Company; • Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by the Company or its competitors; • Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and • Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. - 23 - Table of Contents Stock markets in general and the Company’s common stock in particular have, over the past year, and continue to be experiencing significant price and volume volatility. As a result, the market price of the Company’s common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to its operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of the Company’s common stock and may make it more difficult for shareholders to liquidate the common stock. Future issuances of additional securities could result in dilution of your ownership. The Company may determine from time to time to issue additional securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, the Company may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate its employees. These issuances of the Company’s securities may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. The Company’s market value could result in an impairment of goodwill. The Company’s goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis at September 30, or when triggering events or circumstances indicate impairment may exist. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company experienced a decline in its market capitalization, therefore the Company evaluated its goodwill as of December 31, 2008 and concluded that there was no impairment. In the first quarter of 2009, the Company has experienced further declines in its market capitalization as its common stock has been trading at a price significantly below its book value. Significant and sustained declines in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, significant declines in the Company’s expected future cash flows, significant adverse changes in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in impairment of goodwill. If impairment of goodwill was determined to exist, the Company would be required to write down its goodwill as a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. For further discussion, see Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 6, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The banking industry’s earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on earning assets, primarily loans and investments, and the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the demand of customers for the Company’s products and services. The Bank is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than interest-earning assets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry competition may have an adverse impact on the Company’s success. The Company’s profitability depends on its ability to compete successfully. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment where certain of its competitors are larger and have more resources. In the Company’s market areas, it faces competition from commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of the Company’s non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern FII or FSB and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. The Company expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, the Company’s ability to market its products and services may be adversely impacted. The Company’s deferred tax assets may not ultimately be realized or its tax positions may be subject to challenge by the IRS. The Company’s deferred tax assets may provide significant future tax savings to the Company. The Company’s use of these deferred tax benefits may depend on a number of factors including the ability of the Company to generate significant taxable income; the absence of a future ownership change of the Company that could limit or eliminate the tax benefits; the acceptance by the taxing authorities of the positions taken on the Company’s tax returns as to the amount and timing of its income and expenses; and future changes in laws or regulations relating to tax deductions and net operating losses. The Company assesses the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be realizable based on future taxable income and, if necessary, establishes a valuation allowance for those deferred tax assets determined to not likely be realizable. Management judgment is required in determining the appropriate recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities, including projections of future taxable income. There can be no absolute assurance, however, that the net deferred assets will ultimately be realized. - 24 - Table of Contents The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company depends upon data processing, software, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. Despite instituted safeguards, the Company cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Company relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Company could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. - 25 - Table of Contents 