Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Our Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the Fiscal Years 2006, 2005 and 2004 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES INDEX TO EXHIBITS 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are a leading retailer and recycler of major household appliances. We generate revenues from: 1. Retail sales of appliances at our ApplianceSmart® factory outlets. 2. Fees charged for collecting and recycling appliances for utilities and other companies. 3. Selling materials from the appliances that we collect and recycle, including appliances from our ApplianceSmart factory outlets. We were incorporated in Minnesota in 1983, although, through our predecessors we began our appliance retail and recycling business in 1976. Our principal office is located at 7400 Excelsior Boulevard, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55426-4517. References herein to our company include our operating subsidiaries. (See Exhibit 21.1.) Industry Background In the United States, more than 500 million major household appliances are currently in use. These appliances include: Refrigerators Washers Freezers 0; Dryers Ranges Water heaters Ovens & #160; Air conditioners Dishwashers Dehumidifiers Microwaves Humidifiers Disposing of these appliances can create several problems: 1. Many areas have decreasing landfill capacity and bulky appliances take up valuable space. 2. Many appliances contain materials that are harmful to the environment. To prevent air, water and ground pollution, these appliances must be processed to remove the hazardous materials before the remainder of the appliance can be disposed of. 3. Alternatives to landfills that will accept appliances for disposal, such as incinerators, may not have the capability to process the appliances to remove hazardous substances. Many types of major appliances contain components with substances that damage the environment, including: 1. PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls), which are suspected of causing cancer. Although the EPA banned the production of PCBs in 1979, it allowed manufacturers to use their remaining inventories of PCB-containing components. Consequently, some old refrigerators, freezers and air conditioners still in use have capacitors that contain PCBs. If PCBs are released from capacitors, groundwater contamination can occur. 2. Mercury, which is toxic to humans. Mercury can enter the body through inhalation, absorption through the skin, or ingestion. At high temperatures, mercury vaporizes to form extremely poisonous fumes. Freezers and washers may have mercury-containing switches in their lids. 3. CFCs (chlorofluorocarbons), which cause long-term damage to the earth’s ozone layer and may contribute to global warming when released into the atmosphere. Old refrigerators and freezers commonly contain CFC refrigerants. 3 4. Other materials, such as oil and sulfur dioxide, that are harmful when released into the environment. The federal government requires the recovery of CFC refrigerants upon appliance disposal, and also regulates the management of hazardous materials found in appliances. Most state and local governments have also enacted laws affecting how their residents dispose of unwanted appliances. For example, some areas restrict landfills and scrap metal processors from accepting appliances unless the units have been processed to remove environmentally harmful materials. As a result, old appliances usually cannot be discarded directly through ordinary solid waste systems. In addition to these solid waste management and environmental issues, energy conservation is another motivating factor in appliance disposal. Refrigerators manufactured in the 1960s and early 1970s use up to 1,750 kilowatt-hours of electricity each year. By 2001, federal standards enacted over the years lowered the average annual energy use per new unit to less than 500 kilowatt-hours. Many electric utility companies sponsor programs to encourage their residential customers to retire energy-inefficient appliances. Utility companies often provide assistance and incentives for consumers to replace their old, inefficient appliances with newer, more efficient models. They also promote the removal of surplus appliances to customers who operate more than one refrigerator, freezer or room air conditioner. Additional appliances contribute significantly to residential energy use and peak demand. The Federal Energy Policy Act of 1992 gave each state the option to deregulate its electric utility industry. Because electric utilities were uncertain about the effect that potential deregulation would have on their business, many scaled back their energy conservation efforts in the mid-1990s. We believe that energy-efficiency programs will remain a long-term component of the electric utility industry, and we have seen a resurgence of interest in utility-sponsored appliance recycling programs in the past few years. Company Background We started our business in 1976 as a used-appliance retailer. We had contracts with national and regional retailers of new appliances, such as Sears and Montgomery Ward. When one of their stores sold a new appliance in the Minneapolis/St. Paul, Miami or Atlanta market, we collected the old appliance from the customer’s residence. Our technicians reconditioned most of the collected appliances to sell at our own stores, and we sold the appliances that were not suitable for sale to scrap metal processors. In the late 1980s, stricter environmental regulations began to affect the disposal of unwanted appliances, and we were no longer able to take appliances that contained hazardous components to a metal processor. At that time, we began to develop systems and equipment to remove the harmful materials so that metal processors would accept the appliance shells for processing. We then offered our services for disposing of appliances in an environmentally sound manner to appliance manufacturers and retailers, waste hauling companies, rental property managers, local governments and the public. Appliance Recycling for Utilities In 1989, we added a new customer group when we opened an appliance processing and recycling center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to serve a major electric utility company. The concept of permanently removing operating, energy-inefficient appliances from use through a utility-sponsored energy-efficiency program proved successful, and we began to focus our resources on expanding our business with electric utilities. From 1989 to 1994, we opened nine centers that served primarily seventeen utility companies. 4 The potential of industry deregulation negatively affected our business with electric utilities in the middle to late 1990s. Utilities decreased their participation in energy-efficiency programs, such as the one we offered, because of uncertainties about how potential deregulation would affect them. However, when California faced an energy crisis in the late 1990s, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) directed one of our customers, Southern California Edison Company (Edison), to implement a statewide appliance recycling program (Summer Initiative). The Summer Initiative, which began in September 2000, was available to utility customers in the service areas of Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E), primarily the San Francisco Bay area, and San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E). We developed and managed the program advertising, scheduled collection appointments when their customers called, picked up the appliances, and processed and recycled the units. In the ensuing years, we provided services through contracts to support several additional utility-sponsored energy efficiency programs in California, including: 1. The Appliance Early Retirement and Recycling Program, which ran from June 2001 until August 2002. We provided services, including advertising, for utility customers in the San Diego area, a six-county region in California’s Central Valley, and the seven-county Bay Area. 2. The 2003 Statewide Residential Appliance Recycling Program, which was available to qualifying customers in the service territories of Edison and SDG&E through December 2003. We had been working under an extension of the 2002 contract until signing a new contract in September 2003. 3. The 2004-2005 Residential Appliance Recycling Program sponsored by Edison for customers in their service territory. 4. The 2004 Appliance Recycling Program for customers of SDG&E, which was extended through 2005. In June 2006, we announced the signing of three new contracts in California: 1. A contract with Edison to handle refrigerator and freezer recycling operations for Edison’s 2006-2008 Appliance Recycling Program, covering substantially the same southern and central California territories that we handled under Edison’s 2004-2005 program. The contract runs through March 2009. Since the new contract was not finalized by year-end 2005, we had continued to provide services for Edison under terms of the prior program. Edison is responsible for advertising the program. 2. A contract with SDG&E to provide refrigerator, freezer and room air conditioner recycling services through December 2008 for their residential and small commercial customers. Under terms of this agreement, we are responsible for advertising the program. 3. A contract for recycling the old, inefficient but working refrigerators and freezers of customers served by the Sacramento Municipal Utility District (SMUD). The initial term of the contract was from June 2006 through December 2006, and has subsequently been extended through June 2007. We are responsible for advertising this program. Since 2004, electric utilities in other parts of the U.S. have also awarded us with contracts: 1. We were selected to handle a joint appliance recycling program in Connecticut sponsored by The United Illuminating Company and The Connecticut Light & Power Company. The program began in April 2004 and ended in December 2006. Both of these utilities were responsible for advertising their programs. 2. In December 2004, we reached an agreement with Wisconsin Public Power Inc. (WPPI) to provide appliance recycling services through December 2005. The contract was initially extended through 2006 and has been extended again through December 2007. WPPI is a statewide power company owned by 40 municipalities that operate electric utilities. They supply power to 154,000 homes and businesses throughout Wisconsin. WPPI is responsible for advertising this program. 5 3. Also in December 2004, we entered into an agreement with Austin Energy in Texas to manage appliance recycling operations in their service territory during 2005. The contract was initially extended through 2006 and has been extended again until December 2007. The City of Austin has granted Austin Energy the option to renew the program annually through 2008. Austin Energy is the nation’s tenth largest community-owned electric utility, serving 360,000 customers within the City of Austin and surrounding counties. To support this program, we opened an appliance recycling facility in Austin. Austin Energy is responsible for advertising this program. 4. In March 2006, we entered into an agreement with Wisconsin Energy Conservation Corporation (WECC) to provide appliance recycling services through June 2007. WECC administers and implements the residential components of the State of Wisconsin’s Focus on Energy, a public-private partnership offering energy information and services to customers throughout the state. We have seen a renewed interest from utilities in appliance recycling energy-efficiency programs, and we will continue to aggressively pursue that segment of customers in 2007. However, we still have a limited ability to project revenues from utility programs in 2007. Retail Sales; Reverse Logistics Programs When electric utilities began to scale back or discontinue their programs with us in the mid-1990s, we increased our marketing to appliance manufacturers and retailers, waste haulers and property management companies. We also focused on strengthening our sales of used appliances. In 1995, we began operating our own chain of stores, Encore Recycled Appliances®. In 1998, we changed the name of our retail stores to ApplianceSmart. One of the markets we have developed is in providing reverse logistics services for appliance manufacturers and retailers. Reverse logistics involves managing appliances that fall outside a company’s normal channels of distribution. All these appliances are new, not used. Some are in the carton while others are out of the carton. One example of this type of product involves manufacturer redesign, in which a current model is updated to include a few new features and is then assigned a new model number. Because the manufacturer ships only the latest models to retailers, a large quantity of the older model remains in the manufacturer’s inventory. In the appliance industry, these appliances require a different method of management. These “special-buy” appliances include: · Closeouts · Floor samples · Returned or exchanged items · Factory overruns · Scratch and dent · Open carton For many years, manufacturers relied on small appliance dealers to buy this product to sell in their stores. However, today these small retailers are struggling to compete with large appliance chains (the top 10 retailers are estimated to control 80 percent of the appliance sales market). At the same time, the expansion of big-box retailers that sell appliances has created a dramatic increase in the number of special-buy units, further straining the traditional outlet system for these appliances. Because these special-buy appliances have value, manufacturers and retailers need an efficient management system to recover their worth. In the late 1990s, we began to design reverse logistics programs for major appliance manufacturers. In 1997, we began providing reverse logistics services for Whirlpool Corporation, the nation’s largest manufacturer of 6 major household appliances. That pilot program led to a 1998 contract that allowed us to purchase special-buy appliances from Whirlpool’s distribution centers in the Midwest and some western states. We began selling these special-buy appliances at our network of ApplianceSmart factory outlets. With an increased supply of product, we started to focus on opening larger stores to offer consumers a wider product selection. We also began to close our smaller stores and decided not to expand our used appliance business. In late 1998, we scaled back our agreement with Whirlpool and reduced our purchases to be in line with our financial resources. At that time, our purchases were mainly from Whirlpool’s Ohio distribution center. As we have expanded our ApplianceSmart network over the past few years, we have begun to purchase merchandise from all Whirlpool distribution centers. Key components of our current agreement with Whirlpool, which became effective in 2004, include: 1. We have no guarantees for the number or type of appliances that we will be able to purchase. 2. The agreement may be terminated by either party with thirty days’ prior written notice. 3. We have agreed to indemnify Whirlpool for certain claims, allegations or losses concerning the Whirlpool appliances we sell. In October 2001, we entered into an agreement with Maytag Corporation to purchase special-buy appliances. Under the Maytag agreement: 1. We have no minimum purchase requirements. 2. The agreement may be terminated by either party with 60 days’ written notice. 3. The agreement may be terminated immediately if a default is not cured within ten (10) days after notification of the default. 4. We have agreed to indemnify Maytag for all claims, losses, liability and expenses with respect to Maytag appliances we sell. Maytag was acquired by Whirlpool in 2006; however, this has not affected our supply or the terms of our agreement with Maytag. We have also entered into contracts with three other major manufacturers: 1. In December 2001, we began carrying a full line of Frigidaire appliances at all ApplianceSmart factory outlets. 2. In January 2003, we entered into a contract with GE Consumer Products to purchase and sell special-buy GE appliances. 3. In March 2007, we signed an agreement to carry appliances manufactured by Danby. In addition to our reverse logistics contracts, we are also an authorized dealer of new product for Whirlpool, Maytag, Frigidaire, GE and Danby. Although there are no guarantees on the number of units that any of the manufacturers will sell us, we believe that purchases from these five manufacturers will provide an adequate supply of high-quality appliances for our ApplianceSmart outlets. During the second quarter of 2003, we became a majority (60%) owner in North America Appliance Company, LLC (NAACO). NAACO was formed and commenced operations in June 2003 and is a retailer of special-buy appliances in Texas. Because NAACO has a net shareholders’ deficit, no minority interest has been recognized on 7 our consolidated balance sheet, and 100% of NAACO’s operations are included in our consolidated financial statements for the years of 2006, 2005 and 2004. On September 1, 2006, we became a majority (60%) owner in Productos Duraderos de Norte America (PDN), a Mexican Corporation in exchange for $3,000 in cash. PDN refurbishes household window air conditioners for sale through our NAACO operation in McAllen, Texas and through our ApplianceSmart outlet stores. Operating results of PDN from September 1, 2006 through December 30, 2006 are included in our financial statements. Since PDN has operated at a loss since September 1, 2006, 100% of PDN’s operations are included in our consolidated financial statements. Growth Strategy Larger factory outlet facilities offer consumers a wider selection of appliances than smaller stores do and are more efficient for us to operate. For these reasons, we intend to continue to focus our retail sales operations on larger facilities. We would consider opening new stores primarily in markets in which we currently have operations, for additional operational and marketing efficiencies of scale. We evaluate demographic, economic and financial information when considering a new store location. We are also actively pursuing opportunities to support energy-efficiency programs sponsored by electric utility companies. We have seen renewed interest from utility companies in these programs. Customers and Source of Supply We offer reverse logistics services to manufacturers and retailers that need an efficient way to manage appliances that fall outside their normal distribution and sales channels. We also provide services for electric utility companies that offer their customers appliance recycling programs as an energy conservation measure. For many years, we provided collection and recycling services for waste haulers, vending machine companies, residential property managers and the general public for specified fees. We have phased out this aspect of our business to focus on reverse logistics, retail sales and energy conservation programs. Retailers of New Appliances: We began our business by offering services to Sears, Montgomery Ward and other retailers of new appliances. When a consumer purchased a new appliance, we collected the replaced appliance from the customer’s home or the retailer’s facility. These appliances were our source of supply for our used appliance business, which we have since discontinued. However, we continue to work with new-appliance retailers to manage units that customers have returned and other appliances that the retailer cannot sell as new in-the-carton product. Appliance Manufacturers: We now work with appliance manufacturers, including Whirlpool, Maytag, Frigidaire, GE and Danby to acquire the product we sell at our ApplianceSmart retail stores. We purchase special-buy appliances, such as discontinued models and factory overruns, and sell the product at a significant discount to full retail prices. In addition, our participation in a national buying cooperative enables us to purchase new in-the-carton appliances to fill out our mix of product. Although we believe that our current sources for appliances are adequate to supply our retail stores and allow us to grow our sales, we face the risk that one or more of these sources could be lost. Electric Utility Companies: We contract with utility companies to provide a full range of appliance recycling services to support their energy conservation programs. The contracts usually have terms of one to four years, with provisions for renewal at the option of the utility. Under some contracts, we manage all aspects of the 8 utility’s appliance recycling program. Under other contracts, we provide only specified services, such as collection and recycling. Our contracts with electric utility customers prohibit us from repairing and selling appliances we receive through their programs. Because the intent of the program is to conserve electricity, we take steps to assure our customers that those appliances do not return to use. Our pricing for energy efficiency programs is on a per-appliance basis and depends upon several factors, including: 1. Total number of appliances processed. 2. Length of the contract term. 3. Specific services the utility selects us to provide. 4. Market factors, including labor rates and transportation costs. Currently, we have contracts for 2007 with the following utilities to handle recycling operations in their service territories: 1. Southern California Edison 2. San Diego Gas & Electric 3. Sacramento Municipal Utility District 4. Wisconsin Public Power 5. Austin Energy 6. Wisconsin Energy Conservation Corporation 7. Several other municipal utilities Company Operations We provide a full range of reverse logistics, energy-efficiency and appliance recycling services. We purchase major appliances primarily from appliance manufacturers and retailers for our retail operations. We provide services for electric utility companies to collect and recycle appliances turned in through their energy-efficiency programs. Many of the appliances that we receive from manufacturers are still in the factory carton and are ready to sell. Other appliances need repair or cosmetic work before we send them to our ApplianceSmart retail outlets. All appliances we sell are under warranty and carry a 100 percent money-back guarantee. We also offer extended warranties, delivery, factory-trained technician service and recycling of customers’ old appliances. Some of the appliances we receive must be recycled. These include appliances that do not meet our quality standards for sale at ApplianceSmart and appliances collected through utility customers’ energy conservation programs. We process and recycle these units using environmentally sound systems and techniques. In our recycling operation, our company-trained technicians first inspect and categorize each appliance to identify the types of hazardous materials it contains. We then process the appliances to remove and manage the environmentally hazardous substances according to all federal, state and local regulations. We deliver the processed appliances to local scrap processing facilities, where they shred and recycle the metals. Although the potential of industry deregulation negatively affected our business with electric utilities in the middle to late 1990s, we are seeing renewed interest in appliance recycling energy-efficiency programs. We enter 2007 serving six major utility programs and several smaller ones. We are aggressively pursuing additional utility customers, but still have a limited ability to project revenues from utility programs in 2007. 9 Since 2003, we have focused on a carefully managed growth plan to strengthen our retail operations. We will continue to open showroom outlet stores in convenient, high-traffic locations. In addition, we will continue to seek additional sources of product for our retail stores. We believe that the growth of our retail business in the near future will likely occur through opening new ApplianceSmart outlets in our existing markets. Principal Products and Services We generate revenues from three sources: retailing, recycling and byproduct. The table below reflects the percentage of total revenues from each source for the past three fiscal years. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Revenues: 2006 2005 2004 Retail 84.2 % 83.3 % 79.2 % Recycling 13.2 % 14.6 % 17.8 % Byproduct 2.6 % 2.1 % 3.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Although we have three main sources of revenues—retail, recycling and byproduct—we believe that we have only one operating segment. That is, even though certain separate financial information by retail store or retail store and recycling center is available to us, we are managed as a single unit. Specifically, we do not measure profit or loss or maintain asset information separately for our revenue sources. Recycling and byproduct revenues result from both our retail operations and our recycling contracts. Retail includes the free removal and recycling of the customer’s replaced appliance. Recycling includes the recycling of appliances through a contract or agreement. Sales and Marketing We use a variety of methods to promote awareness of our products and services. We believe that we are recognized as a leader in the recycling industry and in appliance retailing through reverse logistics. Our ApplianceSmart outlet store concept includes establishing large factory showrooms in metropolitan locations. We aim to offer consumers a selection of hundreds, even thousands, of appliances at each of our stores. Our visual branding consists of ample display of manufacturers’ signage, along with custom-designed ApplianceSmart materials in red, white and blue. In every market, we advertise our stores through print media, and in some markets, we rely heavily upon television and radio spots. Through www.ApplianceSmart.com, consumers can also learn more about us on the Internet. We market our services to electric utility companies by contacting prospective clients directly, submitting proposals for services to interested parties, and responding to utility-issued requests to bid. We also generate leads from inquiries received through our corporate website, www.arcainc.com. Seasonality We experience some seasonality in retail revenues, with revenues in the second and third calendar quarters being slightly higher than revenues in the first and fourth calendar quarters. In multi-year programs, electric utility companies that contract with us for service typically roll out their programs towards the end of the first calendar quarter. Promotional activities are strong during the second and third calendar quarters, leading to higher customer demand for services during that time period. As a result, we experience a surge in business during the second and third calendar quarters, which declines through the fourth and first calendar quarters until advertising activities resume. 10 Competition Our retail competition comes mainly from new-appliance and other special-buy retailers. Each ApplianceSmart outlet competes with local and national chains of new-appliance dealers, as well as with independently owned appliance retailers. Many of these retailers have been in business longer than we have and may have significantly greater assets. Many factors, including existing and proposed governmental regulation, affect competition in the appliance recycling industry. We generally compete for contracts with two or three companies based in the program’s service territory. Often, these companies are not able to offer the full range of services that we provide. We expect our primary competition for appliance recycling contracts with existing and new customers to come from a variety of sources, including: 1. Existing recycling companies. 2. Entrepreneurs entering the appliance recycling business. 3. Energy management consultants. 4. Major waste hauling companies. 5. Scrap metal processors. In addition, utility companies and other customers may operate appliance recycling programs internally rather than contracting with outside vendors. We have no assurance that we will be able to compete profitably in any of our chosen markets. Government Regulation Federal, state and local governments regulate appliance collection, recycling and sales activities. While some requirements apply nationwide, others vary by market. The many laws and regulations that affect appliance recycling include landfill disposal restrictions, hazardous waste management requirements and air quality standards. Each of our recycling facilities maintains the appropriate registrations, permits and licenses for operating at its location. The 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act prohibit the venting of CFC and CFC-substitute refrigerants while servicing or disposing of appliances. At all our recycling centers, we use our own company-designed equipment to recover these refrigerants before recycling the units. We register our recycling centers as hazardous waste generators with the EPA. We also obtain all appropriate regional and local licenses for managing hazardous wastes. Licensed hazardous waste companies transport and recycle or dispose of the hazardous materials we generate. Our retail stores obtain all required business licenses, sales tax licenses and any other licenses for their locations. Our delivery and collection vehicles comply with all DOT licensing requirements. In 1992, Congress adopted the Energy Policy Act of 1992 to encourage energy efficiency. This act establishes, among other things: 1. Mandatory energy performance standards for new major household appliances. 2. The option for individual states to deregulate their energy providers, including electric utilities. 11 We are unsure of the ultimate impact of potential deregulation on the electric utility industry. Consequently, we are unable to assure you that all our current operations could continue in a deregulated environment. Although we believe that further governmental regulation of the appliance recycling industry could have a positive effect on us, we cannot foretell the direction of future legislation. Under some circumstances, for example, further regulation could materially increase our operational costs. In addition, under some circumstances we may be subject to contingent liabilities because we handle hazardous materials. Employees At March 1, 2007 we had 301 full-time employees, distributed approximately as follows: 1. 13% of our employees provide appliance collection, transportation and processing services at our recycling centers. 2. 62% work in retail sales. 3. 25% are in administration and management. Our employees have never caused our operations to be disrupted by a work stoppage, and we believe that our employee relations are good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below with respect to an investment in our shares. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash provided by operations could be materially harmed. As a result, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. When evaluating an investment in our Common Stock, you should also refer to the other information in this report, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to ARCA Our strategy of opening new retail stores has resulted in net losses in recent periods. Our primary growth strategy is to open new retail stores. We evaluate demographic, economic and financial information in considering a new store location. We look primarily in markets where we currently have operations, for additional operational and marketing efficiencies of scale. New stores take time to become profitable; we cannot assure you that any individual current or future store will attain or maintain projected profitability. We incurred a net loss of $1,409,000 or $0.33 per share for fiscal year 2006 and a net loss of $933,000 or $0.22 per share for fiscal year 2005. Our full financial information is set out in the financial statements and related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Most of our revenues are derived from retail sales. We expect this dependence on retail sales to continue in the future. Most of our revenues are derived from retail sales of appliances from our ApplianceSmart retail stores. We currently operate fifteen ApplianceSmart stores. Retail revenues have lower profit margins than recycling revenues. We believe that our future economic results will be heavily dependent on our retail stores. In fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006, approximately 79%, 83% and 84%, respectively, of our revenues were from retail sales. We currently expect that retail revenues will account for approximately 85% of total revenues for 2007. However, we cannot assure you that sales from our stores will grow at the rates we currently anticipate. 12 Our revenues from recycling contracts have declined, and future revenues from this source are very difficult to project. In the past, our business was dependent largely upon our ability to obtain new contracts and continue existing contracts for appliance recycling services with utility companies. Contracts with these entities generally have initial terms of one to four years, with renewal options and early termination clauses. The recycling and byproducts portion of our business has diminished from approximately 50% of total revenues in fiscal 2001 to 15.8% of total revenues in fiscal 2006, partially due to decreased sponsorship of energy conservation programs by utilities. However, we are still dependent on certain customers for a large portion of our revenues. Generally, recycling revenues have a higher gross profit than retail revenues. Our major utility customer, Southern California Edison Company (Edison), accounted for approximately 9% of revenues for 2004 and 2005 and 11% for 2006. The loss or material reduction of business from Edison, or any major customer, could adversely affect our net revenues and profitability. We were awarded a contract to provide services for Edison’s refrigerator recycling program for the years 2006-2008. The contract does not provide for a minimum number of refrigerators to be recycled, and the timing and amount of revenues is dependent on Edison’s advertising. We cannot assure you that our existing recycling contracts will be continued or renewed, that existing customers, including Edison, will continue to use our services at current levels, or that we will be successful in obtaining new recycling contracts. Our revenues from recycling contracts are subject to seasonal fluctuations and are dependent on the utilities’ advertising and promotional activities for contracts in which we do not provide advertising services. In our business with utility companies, we experience seasonal fluctuations that impact our operating results. Our recycling revenues are generally higher during the second and third calendar quarters and lower in the first and fourth calendar quarters, due largely to the promotional activity schedules in advertising programs managed by the utilities. We expect that we will continue to experience such seasonal fluctuations in recycling revenues. We experience less seasonal fluctuation in our retail business. We may need new capital to fully execute our growth strategy. Our business involves providing comprehensive, integrated appliance recycling services and developing a chain of retail stores. This commitment will require a significant continuing investment in capital equipment and leasehold improvements and could require additional investment in real estate. Our total capital requirements will depend, among the other things discussed in this annual report, on the number of recycling centers and the number and size of retail stores operating during 2006. Currently, we have fifteen retail stores and four recycling centers in operation. If our revenues are lower than anticipated or our expenses are higher than anticipated or our current line of credit cannot be maintained, we will require additional capital to finance our operations. Even if we are able to maintain our current line of credit, we may need additional equity or other capital in the future. Sources of additional financing, if needed in the future, may include further debt financing or the sale of equity (including the issuance of preferred stock) or other securities. We cannot assure you that any additional sources of financing or new capital will be available to us, or available on acceptable terms, or permitted by the terms of our current debt. In addition, if we sell additional equity to raise funds, all outstanding shares of Common Stock will be diluted. 13 A decline in general economic conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability. Since purchases of our merchandise are dependent upon discretionary spending by our retail customers, our financial performance is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that affect consumer spending. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, gasoline prices, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general or perceived slowdown in the United States economy or uncertainty as to the economic outlook could reduce discretionary spending or cause a shift in consumer discretionary spending to other products. Any of these factors would likely cause us to delay or slow our expansion plans, reduce net sales and potentially result in excess inventories. This could, in turn, lead to increased merchandise markdowns and related costs associated with higher levels of inventory that could adversely affect our liquidity and profitability. Our market share may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. Competition for our retail stores comes primarily from retailers of new and special-buy appliances. Each of our locations will compete not only with local and national chains of new appliance retailers, many of whom have been in business longer than we have and who may have significantly greater assets, but will also be required to compete with numerous independently owned retailers of used appliances. A number of our retail operations have been opened within the past 24 months; therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively in any such market. While recycling revenues could become a smaller part of our business for the foreseeable future, many factors, including existing and proposed governmental regulation, may affect competition in the industry. We generally compete with two or three companies based in the geographic area to be served, and they generally offer some of the services we provide. We expect our primary competition for contracts with existing or new customers to come from entrepreneurs entering the appliance recycling business, energy management consultants, current recycling companies, major waste hauling companies, scrap metal processors and used appliance dealers. In addition, some of our customers, such as utility companies, may operate appliance recycling programs internally rather than contracting with us or other third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete profitably in any of our chosen markets. Changes in governmental regulations relating to our recycling business could increase our costs of operations and adversely affect our business. Our appliance recycling centers are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements related to the collection, processing and recycling of household appliances. These requirements may vary by market location and include, for example laws, concerning the management of hazardous materials and the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act, which require us to recapture CFC refrigerants from appliances to prevent their release into the atmosphere. We have registered our centers with the EPA as hazardous waste generators and have obtained required licenses from appropriate state and local authorities. We have agreements with approved and licensed hazardous waste companies for transportation and recycling or disposal of hazardous materials generated through our recycling processes. As is the case with all companies handling hazardous materials, under some circumstances we may be subject to contingent liability. In 1992, Congress adopted the Federal Energy Policy Act of 1992 to encourage energy efficiency. One component of this Act allows for deregulation of the nation’s energy providers, including the electric utility 14 industry. The immediate impact of the potential of industry deregulation caused utility companies across the U.S. to suspend their plans for implementing appliance recycling programs like ours. Our lender has the right to demand payment in full of the borrowings under our line of credit at any time. If it were to do so, we would not be able to pursue our growth strategy and our operations would be severely limited unless and until new financing was obtained. We have an $8.0 million line of credit with a stated maturity date of December 31, 2007. The line of credit also provides that the lender may demand payment in full of the entire outstanding balance of the loan at any time. We have pledged substantially all our assets to secure payments under the line. The line requires that we meet certain financial covenants, provides payment penalties for noncompliance and prepayment, limits the amount of other debt we can incur, limits the amount of spending on fixed assets, and limits payments of dividends. At March 3, 2007, borrowings of $6,543,000 were outstanding under the line of credit, and we had a shortfall on our borrowing capacity of $454,000 which was paid back to the lender on March 3, 2007. We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified personnel, or experience turnover of our management team. We believe our operations are materially dependent upon the continued services of our present management. The loss of services of one or more members of present management, including Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, our founder, Chairman of the Board and current CEO, could adversely affect our business. We do not have employment contracts with present management. We maintain key person insurance on the life of Mr. Cameron in the amount of $1,000,000. We are involved in litigation surrounding intellectual property. We may incur substantial costs as a result of the litigation , which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In December 2004, we filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California alleging that JACO Environmental, Inc. and one of our former consultants fraudulently obtained a patent (U.S. Patent No. 6,732,416) in May 2004 covering appliance recycling methods and systems originally developed by us beginning in 1987 and used in serving more than forty-five electric utility appliance recycling programs since that time. We are seeking a permanent injunction barring JACO from using the patent to market JACO’s recycling services, due to our belief that the patent is invalid and unenforceable. We are also asking the court for unspecified damages related to charges that JACO, in using the patent to promote its services, has engaged in unfair competition and false and misleading advertising under federal and California statutes. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing this injunction, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. On October 24, 2006, JACO and SEG Umwelt-Service/Basis of Mettlach, Germany (SEG) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in Federal Court against us. The suit claims that we have been using refrigerator recycling systems and processes covered by two U.S. patents issued to SEG and exclusively licensed to JACO. JACO and SEG are seeking an undisclosed amount in damages, in addition to an injunction barring us from continuing to use and market the systems and processes upon which we allegedly infringe. We may incur substantial costs in defending this suit, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 Risks Related to Our Common Stock If an active trading market for our Common Stock does not develop, the value and liquidity of your investment in our Common Stock could be adversely affected. On February 22, 2006, our Common Stock began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Previously, it was traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and the trading volumes were low. There may be only a limited market for any shares of Common Stock that you purchase. The public sale of our Common Stock by the selling shareholders or by other shareholders could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. The trading volumes in our Common Stock are low compared to the number of shares that may be sold by the selling shareholders. Sales of substantial amounts of Common Stock into the public market by the selling shareholders or by our other shareholders could adversely affect the market price for our Common Stock. Our principal shareholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which will allow them to control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval. Currently, Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, Chairman and CEO, owns approximately 8.6% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock. Our officers and directors together hold approximately 16.4%, including any options or warrants they may hold. One of our principal lenders, Medallion Capital, Inc., owns approximately 12% of our outstanding shares. Medallion also has a non-voting right to attend and participate in all meetings of our Board of Directors. Perkins Capital Management, Inc. beneficially owns approximately 18% of our outstanding shares. White Pine Capital, LLC beneficially owns approximately 11% of our outstanding shares. Because of such ownership, our management and principal shareholders may be able to significantly affect our corporate decisions, including the election of the Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 