ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below with respect to an investment in our shares. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash provided by operations could be materially harmed. As a result, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. When evaluating an investment in our Common Stock, you should also refer to the other information in this report, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business Our strategy of opening new retail stores may result in net losses. Our growth strategy includes opening new retail stores. We evaluate demographic, economic and financial information in considering a new store location. We look primarily in markets where we currently have operations to benefit from additional operational and marketing efficiencies of scale. New stores take time to become profitable; we cannot assure you that any individual current or future store will attain or maintain projected profitability. We incurred retail segment operating losses of $0.8 million and $4.2 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. We have historically experienced improvement in our retail segment as our stores have become established. However, the current consumer cutback in spending related to the purchase of major household appliances has negatively impacted our retail segment profits. Our full financial information is set out in the consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” A large percentage of our revenues is derived from retail sales. However, we expect recycling and byproduct revenues as a percentage of total revenues will continue to rise in the future. Most of our revenues are derived from retail sales of appliances at our ApplianceSmart Factory Outlet stores. We currently operate nineteen ApplianceSmart Factory Outlet stores. Retail revenues have lower profit margins than recycling revenues. While we believe that our future economic results will be heavily dependent on our retail stores, we are continuing to see interest in recycling and replacement programs and are pursuing opportunities with providers of energy efficiency services. In fiscal years 2010 and 2009, approximately 66% and 74%, respectively, of our revenues were from retail sales. We believe 11 Table of Contents that recycling and byproduct revenues will grow faster than retail revenues as we continue to add new recycling contracts and as a result of the impact of our recycling agreement with GE. We currently purchase product for resale from a limited number of suppliers. We purchase the majority of our inventory for resale from three main suppliers. While we believe that our relationships with our vendors are strong, the loss of one of these suppliers could have a negative impact on the amount and mix of product that we would be able to offer for sale, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our revenues from recycling contracts are very difficult to project and the loss of major recycling contracts could adversely impact our profits. In the past, our business was dependent largely upon our ability to obtain new contracts and continue existing contracts for appliance recycling services with utility companies. Contracts with these entities generally have initial terms of one to three years, with renewal options and early termination clauses. Although we have experienced an increase in the number of utility companies requesting bids for upcoming appliance recycling programs, we are still dependent on certain customers for a large portion of our revenues. Generally, recycling revenues have a higher gross profit than retail revenues. Three of our major utility customers, Southern California Edison Company, Ontario Power Authority and Southern California Public Power Authority, collectively accounted for approximately 13% and 17% of our total revenues for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss or material reduction of business from any of these major customers could adversely affect our net revenues and profitability. However, we believe we will continue to add new recycling contracts in 2011 and beyond. We cannot assure you that our existing recycling contracts will continue, existing customers will continue to use our services at current levels or we will be successful in obtaining new recycling contracts. Our revenues from recycling contracts are subject to seasonal fluctuations and are dependent on the utilities’ advertising and promotional activities for contracts in which we do not provide advertising services. In our business with utility companies, we experience seasonal fluctuations that impact our operating results. Our recycling revenues are generally higher during the second and third calendar quarters and lower in the first and fourth calendar quarters, due largely to the promotional activity schedules over which we have no control in advertising programs managed by the utilities. Our staff communicates client-driven advertising activities internally in an effort to achieve an operational balance. We expect that we will continue to experience such seasonal fluctuations in recycling revenues. We experience less seasonal fluctuation in our retail business. The joint venture we have formed does not have an operating history upon which it can be evaluated. It may never achieve profitable operations. We have formed a 50/50 joint venture, ARCA Advanced Processing, LLC, to operate the initial Regional Processing Center under our contract with GE. AAP was formed in October 2009 and commenced operations in February 2010. For the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011, AAP reported a net loss of $121,000. AAP is subject to all of the risks associated with a new venture, including the potential for unanticipated expenses, difficulties and delays frequently encountered in connection with the start-up of new businesses, and the competitive environment in which AAP will operate. There is no assurance that AAP will achieve profitable operations. Each additional RPC that may be established in the future will also be subject to the risks associated with a new venture. AAP’s financial performance will be dependent on market prices for recovered materials. AAP’s total revenues will be driven by the market prices for various recovered materials, which include steel, copper, aluminum, other non-ferrous metals, glass, plastic, oil, and certain types of refrigerants. Market prices for such materials may vary significantly. If market prices for such materials are less than projected, AAP may be unable to achieve profitable operations. 12 Table of Contents The volume of appliances under the contract with GE is not guaranteed, although we receive all of their recyclable appliances generated in six states in the northeastern United States. The contract with GE is terminable on 60-day notice if a material breach occurs and is not cured. The operations of AAP and the initial RPC will be materially dependent on the volume of appliances from GE. However, GE has not guaranteed any specific volume of appliances under the contract. Also, the RPC will need significant volume in addition to the volume from GE to operate successfully. The contract with GE is for a period of six years from the first date of collection, which was March 31, 2010, of recyclable appliances from GE’s northeast delivery area, but may be terminated earlier by either party if the other party is in material breach of the contract and does not cure the breach within sixty (60) days after receiving written notice from the other party. We may need new capital to fully execute our growth strategy. Our business involves providing comprehensive, integrated appliance recycling services and developing a chain of retail stores. This commitment will require a significant continuing investment in capital equipment and leasehold improvements and could require additional investment in real estate. Our total capital requirements will depend on, among the other things discussed in this annual report, the number of recycling centers and the number and size of retail stores operating during 2011. Currently, we have nineteen retail stores and ten recycling centers, including AAP, in operation. If our revenues are lower than anticipated, our expenses are higher than anticipated or our line of credit cannot be maintained, we will require additional capital to finance our operations. In addition, we may need to provide additional capital to AAP to fund its operation. Even if we are able to maintain our line of credit, we may need additional equity or other capital in the future. Sources of additional financing, if needed in the future, may include further debt financing or the sale of equity (including the issuance of Preferred Stock) or other securities. We cannot assure you that any additional sources of financing or new capital will be available to us, available on acceptable terms, or permitted by the terms of our current debt. In addition, if we sell additional equity to raise funds, all outstanding shares of Common Stock will be diluted. A decline in general economic conditions has led to reduced consumer demand for our products and had an adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability. Since purchases of our merchandise are largely dependent upon discretionary spending by our retail customers, our financial performance is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that affect consumer spending. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, gasoline prices, consumer confidence, and consumer perception of economic conditions. A slowdown in the United States economy and uncertainty as to the economic outlook has reduced discretionary spending and caused a shift in consumer discretionary spending to other products during fiscal years 2010 and 2009. These factors may likely cause us to delay or slow our expansion plans, may result in reduced sales and could potentially result in excess inventories in 2011. This may, in turn, lead to increased merchandise markdowns and related costs associated with higher levels of inventory that could adversely affect our liquidity and profitability in 2011. Our market share may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. Competition for our retail stores comes primarily from retailers of new and special-buy appliances. Each of our locations will compete not only with local and national chains of new-appliance retailers, many of whom have been in business longer than we have and who may have significantly greater assets, but will also be required to compete with numerous independently owned retailers of used appliances. Many factors, including existing and proposed governmental regulation, may affect competition in the appliance recycling and replacement side of our business. We generally compete with two or three companies based in the geographic area to be served, and they generally offer some of the services we provide. We expect our primary competition for contracts with existing or new customers to come from entrepreneurs entering the appliance recycling business, energy management consultants, current recycling companies, major waste hauling companies, scrap metal processors and new- and used-appliance dealers. In addition, some of our customers, such as utility companies, may operate appliance recycling programs 13 Table of Contents internally rather than contracting with us or other third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete profitably in any of our chosen markets. Changes in governmental regulations relating to our recycling business could increase our costs of operations and adversely affect our business. Our appliance recycling centers are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements related to providing turnkey services for energy efficiency programs. These requirements may vary by market location and include, for example, laws concerning the management of hazardous materials and the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act, which require us to recapture CFC refrigerants from appliances to prevent their release into the atmosphere. We have registered our centers with the EPA as hazardous waste generators and have obtained required licenses from appropriate state and local authorities. We have agreements with approved and licensed hazardous waste companies for transportation and recycling or disposal of hazardous materials generated through our recycling processes. As is the case with all companies handling hazardous materials, under some circumstances we may be subject to contingent liability. We believe we are in compliance with all government regulations regarding the handling of hazardous materials, and we have environmental insurance to mitigate the impact of any potential contingent liability. Our lender has the right to demand payment in full of the borrowings under our line of credit in the event of a default. If it were to do so, we would not be able to pursue our growth strategy and our operations would be severely limited unless and until new financing was obtained. On January 24, 2011, we entered with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”) into a Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, (“PNC Credit Agreement”) that provides us with a $15.0 million revolving line of credit and a $2.55 million term loan. The PNC Credit Agreement has a stated maturity date of January 24, 2014, if not renewed. The PNC Credit Agreement is collateralized by a security interest in substantially all of our assets, and PNC is also secured by an inventory repurchase agreement with Whirlpool Corporation for Whirlpool purchases only. We also issued a $0.8 million letter of credit in favor of Whirlpool Corporation. The PNC Credit Agreement requires, starting with the fiscal quarter ending April 2, 2011 and continuing at the end of each fiscal quarter thereafter, that we meet a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.10:1.00, measured on a trailing twelve-month basis. The PNC Credit Agreement limits investments we can purchase, the amount of other debt we can incur and the amount we can spend on fixed assets, along with prohibiting the payment of dividends. On March 14, 2011, borrowings of $8.6 million were outstanding under the revolving line of credit, and we had unused borrowing capacity of $3.2 million. We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified personnel or experience turnover of our management team. We believe our operations are materially dependent upon the continued services of our present management. The loss of services of one or more members of present management, including Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, our founder, Chairman of the Board and current CEO, could adversely affect our business. We do not have employment contracts with present management. We maintain key person life insurance on Mr. Cameron in the amount of $1.0 million. We have ongoing litigation surrounding the sale of our St. Louis Park facility and we cannot predict the outcome of the appeal. If we lose the case on appeal it could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. In December 2009, a lawsuit was commenced against us in the Fourth Judicial District Court of Hennepin County, Minnesota, by RKL Landholdings, LLC and Emad Y. Abed (“Plaintiffs”), alleging that we breached an agreement to sell our St. Louis Park, Minnesota, property to the Plaintiffs. We sold this property to a third party in September 2009, have received the proceeds from the sale and are currently leasing the property from such third party. Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, our Chief Executive Officer, was also named as a defendant in the lawsuit. The Plaintiffs’ claims were based on a Purchase Agreement and extensions thereto between the Plaintiffs and us, which Purchase Agreement and extensions had expired by their own terms. The Plaintiffs asserted various claims, including promissory estoppel, unjust enrichment, conversion, fraud, tortious interference with prospective advantage, and breach of contract. On August 6, 2010, the Hennepin County District Court 14 Table of Contents entered a summary judgment in favor of Mr. Cameron and us and dismissed all of the Plaintiffs’ claims. The Plaintiffs have appealed the Court’s ruling and we believe the summary judgment will be upheld on appeal. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock If an active trading market for our Common Stock does not develop, the value and liquidity of your investment in our Common Stock could be adversely affected. The trading volumes in our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market are highly variable. At any given time, there may be only a limited market for any shares of Common Stock that you purchase. Sales of substantial amounts of Common Stock into the public market at the same time could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Our principal shareholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which will allow them to control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval. Currently, Edward R. (Jack) Cameron, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 6.5% of our Common Stock. Our officers and directors together beneficially hold approximately 9.4% of our Common Stock. Medallion Capital, Inc. owns approximately 9.0% of our outstanding common shares. Perkins Capital Management, Inc. owns approximately 15.4% of our outstanding common shares. Norman and Sandra Pessin own approximately 9.0% of our outstanding common shares. Because of such ownership, our management and principal shareholders may be able to significantly affect our corporate decisions, including the election of the Board of Directors. 15 Table of Contents 