ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face significant competition from other gaming operations that could have a material adverse effect on our future operations. The gaming industry is intensely competitive, and we face a high degree of competition in the markets in which we operate. We have numerous competitors, including land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, casinos located on Native American-owned lands and at racing and pari-mutuel operations and video lottery and video poker machines not located in casinos. Several of our competitors have substantially better name recognition, marketing and financial resources than we do; competitors with more financial resources may therefore be able to improve the quality of, or expand, their gaming facilities in a way that we may be unable to match. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the United States. Certain states have recently legalized, and other states are currently considering legalizing gaming, Other jurisdictions, including states in close proximity to jurisdictions where we currently have operations, have considered and may consider legalizing casino gaming and other forms of competition. In addition, there is no limit on the number of gaming licenses that may be granted in several of the markets in which we operate. As a result, new licenses could be awarded to gaming facilities in these markets, which could allow new gaming operators to enter our markets and have an adverse effect on our operating results. Expansion of existing gaming facilities and the development of new gaming facilities in our current markets will increase competition for our existing and future operations. In addition, many Native American tribes conduct casino gaming on Native American-owned lands throughout the United States. These facilities have the advantages of being land-based and exempt from certain state and federal taxes and operational restrictions. Some Native American tribes are either in the process of establishing or expanding, or are considering the establishment or expansion of, gaming in Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Florida, Alabama, Kansas, Colorado, Mississippi, Wisconsin and Iowa. The establishment or expansion of new gaming facilities and casinos on Native American-owned lands will increase competition for our existing and future gaming facilities in proximity to Native American-owned lands. We also compete with other forms of legalized gaming and entertainment such as online computer gambling, bingo, pull tab games, card parlors, sports books, “cruise-to-nowhere” operations, pari-mutuel or telephonic betting on horse racing and dog racing, state-sponsored lotteries, jai-alai, and, in the future, may compete with gaming at other venues. In addition, we compete more generally with other forms of entertainment for the discretionary spending of our customers. Our existing gaming facilities compete directly with other gaming properties in Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Iowa, Florida and Colorado. We also compete with gaming operators in other gaming jurisdictions such as Atlantic City, New Jersey and Las Vegas, Nevada. Our existing casinos attract a significant number of their customers from Houston, Texas; Mobile, Alabama; Kansas City, Missouri; Southern Florida; Little Rock, Arkansas and Denver, Colorado. Our continued success depends upon drawing customers from each of these geographic markets. Legalization of gaming in jurisdictions closer to these geographic markets than the jurisdictions in which our facilities are located would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In that regard, the Kansas Legislature recently authorized casinos in several locations throughout the state of Kansas, including two in the Kansas City, Kansas area. We expect competition to increase as new gaming operators enter our markets, existing competitors expand their operations, gaming activities expand in existing jurisdictions and gaming is legalized in new jurisdictions. We cannot predict with any certainty the effects of existing and future competition on our operating results. We are subject to extensive regulation from gaming authorities that could adversely affect us. As owners and operators of gaming and pari-mutuel wagering facilities, we are subject to extensive state and local regulation. State and local authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. The regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate have very broad discretion with regard to their regulation of gaming operators, and may for a broad variety of reasons and in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, limit, condition, suspend, fail to renew or revoke a license to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries, or prevent other persons from owning an interest in us or doing business with us. We may also be deemed responsible for the acts and conduct of our employees. Substantial fines or forfeiture of 9 assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved, and some regulatory authorities have the ability to require us to suspend our operations. The suspension or revocation of any of our licenses or our operations or the levy on us or our subsidiaries of a substantial fine would have a material adverse effect on our business. To date, we have demonstrated suitability to obtain and have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for us to operate our existing gaming facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain these licenses, registrations, permits and approvals or that we will be able to obtain any new ones in order to expand our business, or that our attempts to do so will be timely. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses and have the suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. In addition, regulatory authorities in certain jurisdictions must approve, in advance, any restrictions on transfers of, agreements not to encumber or pledges of equity securities issued by a corporation that is registered as an intermediary company with such state, or that holds a gaming license. If these restrictions are not approved in advance, they will be invalid. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, from time to time, certain anti-gaming groups have challenged constitutional amendments or legislation that would limit our ability to continue to operate in those jurisdictions in which these constitutional amendments or legislation have been adopted. For example, the Florida District Court of Appeals First District reversed the lower court’s decision granting summary judgment in favor of Floridians for a Level Playing Field (FLPF), of which we are a member. The Court ruled that a trial is necessary to determine whether FLPF failed to obtain the required number of signatures to place the constitutional amendment authorizing slot machines on the ballot approved by the voters. We believe that at trial FLPF would prevail on the merits. However, if FLPF is ultimately unsuccessful in the litigation, the statewide vote amending the Florida constitution to permit slot machines at pari-mutuels could be invalidated and our right to operate slot machines at Pompano Park would be eliminated, which would have an adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you as to the outcome of this litigation. We are subject to the possibility of an increase in gaming taxes and fees, which would increase our costs. State and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. We believe that the prospect of significant revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, we believe that worsening economic conditions that result in state and local governments having budget shortfalls (as is currently the case in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate) could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. Some of the states in which we own or operate casinos continue to experience budget shortfalls and, as a result, may increase gaming taxes to raise more revenue. We cannot determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to non-gaming regulation that could adversely affect us. Several of our riverboats must comply with U.S. Coast Guard requirements as to boat design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and safety and must hold U.S. Coast Guard Certificates of Documentation and Inspection. The U.S. Coast Guard requirements also set limits on the operation of the riverboats and mandate licensing of certain personnel involved with the operation of the riverboats. Loss of a riverboat’s Certificate of Documentation and Inspection could preclude its use as a riverboat casino. Each of our riverboats is inspected annually and, every five years, is subject to dry-docking for inspection of its hull, which could result in a temporary loss of service. 10 We are required to have third parties periodically inspect and certify all of our casino barges for stability and single compartment flooding integrity. Our casino barges and other facilities must also meet local fire safety standards. We would incur additional costs if any of our gaming facilities were not in compliance with one or more of these regulations. We are also subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that apply to non-gaming businesses generally, such as the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. We have not identified any issues associated with our properties that could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on us or the results of our operations. However, several of our properties are located in industrial areas or were used for industrial purposes for many years. As a consequence, it is possible that historical or neighboring activities have affected one or more of our properties and that, as a result, environmental issues could arise in the future, the precise nature of which we cannot now predict. The coverage and attendant compliance costs associated with these laws, regulations and ordinances may result in future additional costs. Regulations adopted by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Treasury Department require us to report currency transactions in excess of $10,000 occurring within a gaming day, including identification of the patron by name and social security number. U.S. Treasury Department regulations also require us to report certain suspicious activity, including any transaction that exceeds $5,000 if we know, suspect or have reason to believe that the transaction involves funds from illegal activity or is designed to evade federal regulations or reporting requirements. Substantial penalties can be imposed against us if we fail to comply with these regulations. We are also subject to a variety of other local rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental, construction and land-use laws and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages. Our business may be adversely affected by legislation prohibiting tobacco smoking. Legislation in various forms to ban indoor tobacco smoking has recently been enacted or introduced in many states and local jurisdictions, including several of the jurisdictions in which we operate. On January 1, 2008, a statewide smoking ban that includes casino floors went into effect in Colorado. This smoking ban in Colorado has had some negative impact on business volume at our Black Hawk properties, the long-term impact of which we cannot yet predict. If additional restrictions on smoking are enacted in jurisdictions in which we operate, particularly if such restrictions are not applicable to all competitive facilities in that gaming market, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and restrict our operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of April 27, 2008, we had approximately $1.5 billion of total debt outstanding. Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial health, such as: · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service, general corporate or other obligations; · limiting our ability to use operating cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion and other important areas of our business because we must dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness; · increasing our interest expense if there is a rise in interest rates, because a portion of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are subject to interest rate periods with short-term durations that require ongoing refunding at the then current rates of interest; · causing an event of default if we fail to satisfy the financial and restrictive covenants contained in the indenture and agreements governing our 7% senior subordinated notes due 2014, our senior secured credit facility and our other indebtedness, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable, could permit our secured lenders to foreclose on the assets securing our secured debt and have 11 other adverse consequences, any of which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged; and · increasing our vulnerability to and limiting our ability to react to changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns or downturns in our business. Any of the factors listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although based on our current level of operations, we believe that our operating cash flow, available cash and available borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated future liquidity needs, we cannot assure you that our business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow, or that future available draws under our senior secured credit facility will be sufficient, to enable us to meet our liquidity needs, including to service our indebtedness. Despite our significant indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt. This could intensify the risks described above. The terms of the indenture and agreements governing the senior subordinated 7% notes, our senior secured credit facility and our other indebtedness limit, but do not prohibit, us or our subsidiaries from incurring significant additional indebtedness in the future. As of April 27, 2008, we had the capacity to incur additional indebtedness, including the ability to incur additional indebtedness under all of our lines of credit, of approximately $170.0 million. Refer to Footnote 7, Long-Term Debt, for additional discussion on our Senior Secured Credit Facility. Approximately $18.6 million of these lines of credit were used to support letters of credit. Our capacity to issue additional indebtedness is subject to the limitations imposed by the covenants in our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated 7% notes. The indenture governing our senior subordinated 7% notes and our senior secured credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants, but will not fully prohibit us from incurring additional debt. If new debt is added to our current level of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may prevent us from pursuing business strategies that could otherwise improve our results of operations. We have made and will need to make significant capital expenditures at our existing facilities to remain competitive with current and future competitors in our markets. Our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated 7% notes contain operating and financial restrictions that may limit our ability to obtain the financing to make these capital expenditures. Our agreements governing our indebtedness, among other things, require us to maintain certain specified financial ratios and to meet certain financial tests. Our debt agreements also limit our ability to: · borrow money; · make capital expenditures; · use assets as security in other transactions; · make restricted payments or restricted investments; · incur contingent obligations; and · sell assets and enter into leases and transactions with affiliates. We may experience construction delays during our expansion or development projects which could adversely affect our operations. We currently expect to begin a construction project at our Biloxi property and plan to commence additional construction projects at several of our properties. We also evaluate other expansion opportunities as they become available and we may in the future engage in additional construction projects. The anticipated costs and construction periods are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared by us in consultation with our architects and contractors. Construction projects entail significant risks, which can substantially increase costs or delay completion of a project. Such risks include shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental 12 or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference and unanticipated cost increases. Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, difficulties or delays in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits or authorizations from regulatory authorities can increase the cost or delay the completion of an expansion or development. Significant budget overruns or delays with respect to expansion and development projects could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully expand to new locations or recover our investment in new properties which would adversely affect our operations and available resources. We regularly evaluate and pursue new gaming acquisition and development opportunities in existing and new gaming markets. To the extent that we elect to pursue any new gaming acquisition or development opportunity, our ability to benefit from our investment will depend on many factors, including: · our ability to successfully identify attractive acquisition and development opportunities; · our ability to successfully operate any developed or acquired properties; · our ability to attract and retain competent management and employees for the new locations; · our ability to secure required federal, state and local licenses, permits and approvals, which in some jurisdictions are limited in number and subject to intense competition and; · the availability of adequate financing on acceptable terms. Many of these factors are beyond our control. There have recently been significant disruptions in the global capital markets that have adversely impacted the ability of borrowers to access capital. Many analysts are predicting that these disruptions may continue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, it is likely that we are dependent on free cash flow from operations and remaining borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility to implement our near-term expansion plans and fund our planned capital expenditures. As a result of these and other considerations, we cannot be sure that we will be able to recover our investments in any new gaming development opportunities or acquired facilities, or successfully expand to additional locations. If our key personnel leave us, our business could be adversely affected. We have recently had many changes in our senior executive management team, and have embarked on the execution of a strategic plan developed by, and to be led by, that team. Our continued success will depend, among other things, on the efforts and skills of a few key executive officers and the experience of our property managers, which have also recently experienced significant turnover. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel with gaming industry experience and qualifications to obtain the requisite licenses. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance for any of our employees. There is no assurance that we would be able to attract and hire suitable replacements for any of our key employees. We need qualified executives, managers and skilled employees with gaming industry experience to continue to successfully operate our business. We believe a shortage of skilled labor in the gaming industry may make it increasingly difficult and expensive to attract and retain qualified employees. We expect that increased competition in the gaming industry will intensify this problem. Members of the Goldstein family control a large percentage of our common stock and their decisions may differ from those that may be made by other shareholders. Bernard Goldstein, our current Chairman and former Chief Executive Officer, his sons, including Robert Goldstein, our Vice Chairman and Jeffrey Goldstein, one of our directors; and various family trusts associated with members of the Goldstein Family, collectively own and control approximately 51% of our common stock, as of July 8, 2008. Although the members of the Goldstein family are free to vote their shares differently than one another, the Goldstein family will be able to exert a significant amount of control over the election of our board of directors and the vote on substantially all other matters, including significant corporate transactions, such as the approval of a merger or other transactions involving a sale of us. The interests of the Goldstein family may differ from those of our other shareholders. We have a history of fluctuations in our operating income (losses), and we may incur additional operating losses in the future. Our operating results could fluctuate significantly on a periodic basis. 13 We sustained a net loss of $96.9 million and operating loss of $36.1 million in fiscal year 2008 and a net loss of $4.6 million in fiscal year 2007. Companies with fluctuations in income (loss) from operations often find it more challenging to raise capital to finance improvements in their businesses and to undertake other activities that return value to their shareholders. In addition, companies with operating results that fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis experience increased volatility in their stock prices in addition to difficulties in raising capital. We cannot assure you that we will not have fluctuations in our income (losses) from operations in the future, and should that occur, that we would not suffer adverse consequences to our business as a result, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously disrupt our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dockside and riverboat facilities are subject to risks in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, including loss of service due to casualty, mechanical failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, flood, hurricane or other severe weather. Our riverboats and barges face additional risks from the movement of vessels on waterways. Reduced patronage and the loss of a dockside or riverboat casino from service for any period of time could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we closed our Biloxi facility from August 28, 2005 to December 26, 2005 and our Lake Charles facility from September 22, 2005 to October 8, 2005. Flooding on the waterways where our dockside and riverboat casinos operate also may require us to close our facilities from time to time, with a resulting adverse affect on our business. During the Spring of 2008, we were forced to close our Natchez and Davenport properties, for several days each, due to flooding. While our business interruption insurance provided sufficient coverage for those losses, we cannot be sure that the proceeds from any future claim will be sufficient to compensate us if one or more of our casinos experience a closure. In fiscal 2007 and 2008, in part as a result of hurricane claims in the Gulf Coast region over the past several years, we have experienced a significant increase in property and business interruption premiums. Access to a number of our facilities may also be affected by road conditions, such as construction and traffic. In addition, severe weather such as high winds and blizzards occasionally limits access to our facilities in Colorado. Energy and fuel price increases, such as the recent dramatic increases in gasoline prices, may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. While no shortages of energy have been experienced, substantial increases in the cost of electricity in the United States would negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, energy and fuel price increases in cities that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers, and lead our customers and potential customers to decide not to travel, both of which could result in a corresponding decrease in visitation to our properties, which would negatively impact our revenues. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, which recently have been very significant, but this impact could be material. A downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business operations are subject to changes in international, national and local economic conditions, including changes in the economy as well as the economic impact related to future security alerts in connection with threatened or actual terrorist attacks and related to the war in Iraq, which may affect our customers’ willingness to travel and visit our properties. Recent unprecedented increases in the price of gasoline may also affect our customers’ willingness to travel. A recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of customers for our properties, could result in fewer customers visiting our properties, which would adversely affect our results of operations. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile and may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a number of factors, including actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations, the announcement of significant transactions or other agreements by our competitors, conditions or trends 14 in the our industry or other entertainment industries with which we compete, general economic conditions including those affecting our customers’ discretionary spending, changes in the cost of air travel or the cost of gasoline, changes in the gaming markets in which we operate and changes in the trading value of our common stock. The stock market in general, as well as stocks in the gaming sector have been subject to significant volatility and extreme price fluctuations that have sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to individual companies’ operating performances. Broad market or industry factors may harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We have international operations that are subject to different risks than our domestic operations. In the UK and the Bahamas, we are subject to certain additional risks, including difficulty in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations, foreign currency fluctuations, dependence on foreign economies, political issues, adverse tax consequences and uncertainty in regulatory reform in the UK. In addition, in the Bahamas current gaming regulation preclude residents from participating in gaming activities. Therefore, disruptions in tourism traffic due to issues such as increased costs and/or reduced availability of airline and other means of transportation and hotel accommodations can have an adverse impact in our gaming operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could result in a loss of investor confidence regarding our financial reports or may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with the reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In doing so, we may identify significant deficiencies or errors that are not currently known to us. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “ material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. In fiscal 2007, we identified several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and have restated our financial results for the years ended through April 30, 2006 and the related quarterly results therein, and the first three fiscal quarters ended January 28, 2007. We believe that we have remediated our material weaknesses. We cannot be assured that additional material weaknesses, significant deficiencies and control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the future could be impacted by a variety of factors, including faulty human judgment, simple errors, omissions or mistakes, and the possibility that any enhancements to disclosure controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information. This may cause us to fail to satisfy the reporting requirements with our lenders and give rise to an event of default or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This may also have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. * * * * * * * In addition to the foregoing, you should consider each of the factors set forth in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The factors described in our Part 1 Item 1A are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the foregoing risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially harmed. In that case, the trading price of our securities, including our common stock, could decline significantly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 