RISK FACTORS The following describes some of the risks that could affect Rio Tinto. There may be additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, could turn out to be material. These risks, whether they materialise individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the Group’s business and financial results. They should also be considered in connection with any forward looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement on the following page. Economic conditionsCommodity prices, and demand for the Group’s products, are influenced strongly by world economic growth, particularly that in the US and Asia. The Group’s normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices. Commodity prices can fluctuate widely and could have a material and adverse impact on the Group’s asset values, revenues, earnings and cash flows. Further discussion can be found under Business environment and markets on page 13, and under Commodity prices on pages 49 to 51. Exchange ratesThe Group’s asset values, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Group’s customers and areas of operation. The majority of the Group’s sales are denominated in US dollars. The Australian and US dollars are the most important currencies influencing costs. The relative value of currencies can fluctuate widely and could have a material and adverse impact on the Group’s asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows. Further discussion can be found under Exchange rates, reporting currencies and currency exposure on pages 47 to 49. AcquisitionsThe Group has grown partly through the acquisition of other businesses. Business combinations commonly entail a number of risks and Rio Tinto cannot be sure that management will be able effectively to integrate businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated. Failure to do so could have a material and adverse impact on the Group’s costs, earnings and cash flows. Furthermore, the Group could find itself liable for undisclosed past acts or omissions of the acquired businesses without any adequate right of redress. Exploration and new projectsThe Group seeks to identify new mining properties through an active exploration programme. There is no guarantee, however, that such expenditure will be recouped or that existing mineral reserves will be replaced. Failure to do so could have a material and adverse impact on the Group’s financial results and prospects. The Group develops new mining properties and expands its existing operations as a means of generating shareholder value. Increasing regulatory, environmental and social approvals are, however, required which can result in significant increases in construction costs and/or significant delays in construction. These increases could materially and adversely affect a project’s economics, the Group’s asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows. Ore reserve estimates There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available. Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated. Such changes in reserves could impact on depreciation and amortisation rates, asset carrying values, deferred stripping calculations and provisions for close down, restoration and environmental clean up costs. Further discussion can be found under Ore reserve estimates on page 52. Political and communityThe Group has operations in jurisdictions having varying degrees of political instability. Political instability can result in civil unrest, expropriation, nationalisation, renegotiation or nullification of existing agreements, mining leases and permits, changes in laws, taxation policies or currency restrictions. Any of these can have a material adverse effect on the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation. Some of the Group’s current and potential operations are located in or near communities that may now, or in the future, regard such an operation as having a detrimental effect on their economic and social circumstances. Should this occur, it might have a material adverse impact on the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation. In addition, such an event may adversely affect the Group’s ability to enter into new operations in the country. TechnologyThe Group has invested in and implemented information system and operational initiatives. Several technical aspects of these initiatives are still unproven and the eventual operational outcome or viability cannot be assessed with certainty. Accordingly, the costs and benefits from these initiatives and the consequent effects on the Group’s future earnings and financial results may vary widely from present expectations. Rio Tinto 2005 Form 20-F 7 Back to Contents Land and resource tenureThe Group operates in several countries where title to land and rights in respect of land and resources (including indigenous title) may be unclear and may lead to disputes over resource development. Such disputes could disrupt relevant mining projects and/or impede the Group’s ability to develop new mining properties. Health, safety and environmentRio Tinto operates in an industry that is subject to numerous health, safety and environmental laws and regulations as well as community expectations. Evolving regulatory standards and expectations can result in increased litigation and/or increased costs all of which can have a material and adverse effect on earnings and cash flows. Mining operationsMining operations are vulnerable to a number of circumstances beyond the Group’s control, including natural disasters, unexpected geological variations and industrial actions. These can affect costs at particular mines for varying periods. Mining, smelting and refining processes also rely on key inputs, for example fuel and electricity. Appropriate insurance can provide protection from some, but not all, of the costs that may arise from unforeseen events. Disruption to the supply of key inputs, or changes in their pricing, may have a material and adverse impact on the Group’s asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows. RehabilitationCosts associated with rehabilitating land disturbed during the mining process and addressing environmental, health and community issues are estimated and provided for based on the most current information available. Estimates may, however, be insufficient and/or further issues may be identified. Any underestimated or unidentified rehabilitation costs will reduce earnings and could materially and adversely affect the Group’s asset values, earnings and cash flows. Non managed operationsRio Tinto cannot guarantee that management of mining and processing assets not subject to its management control will comply with the Group’s standards and objectives, nor that effective policies, procedures and controls will be maintained over those assets. Improper management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls could materially affect the value of those assets. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Rio Tinto Group. The words “intend”, “aim”, “project”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan”, “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “should”, “will”, or similar expressions, commonly identify such forward looking statements. Examples of forward looking statements in this annual report on Form 20-F include those regarding estimated reserves, anticipated production or construction commencement dates, costs, outputs, demand, growth opportunities and productive lives of assets or similar factors. Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors set forth in this document that are beyond the Group’s control. For example, future reserves will be based in part on long term price assumptions that may vary significantly from current levels. These may materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular developments. Other factors include the ability to produce and transport products profitably, demand for our products, the effect of foreign currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, and activities by governmental authorities, such as changes in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by these forward looking statements which speak only as at the date of this report. Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events. The Group cannot guarantee that its forward looking statements will not differ materially from actual results. Item 