Item 1A. Risk Factors In the normal course of business, our operations, financial condition and results of operations are routinely subjected to a variety of risks. Our actual financial results could differ materially from projected results due to some or all of the factors discussed below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as those discussed in the “Competition,” “Our Stores,” “Distribution” and “Government Regulation” sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the current global economic conditions amplify many of these risks. A decline in consumer spending or a change in consumer preferences could reduce our sales or profitability and harm our business. Our sales depend on consumer spending, which is influenced by factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the availability of discretionary income and credit, weather, consumer confidence and unemployment levels. We may experience declines in sales or changes in the types of products sold during economic downturns. Any material decline in the amount of consumer spending could reduce our sales, and a decrease in the sales of higher-margin products could reduce profitability, and, in each case, harm our business. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and pet care needs could adversely affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, our market share and our profitability. The pet products and services retail industry is very competitive and continued competitive forces may adversely impact our business and financial results. The pet products and services retail industry is very competitive. We compete with supermarkets, warehouse clubs and other mass and general retail merchandisers, many of which are larger and have significantly greater 8 Table of Contents resources than we have. We also compete with a number of specialty pet supply stores and independent pet stores, veterinarians, catalog retailers and e-commerce retailers. The pet products and services retail industry has become increasingly competitive due to the expansion of pet-related product offerings by certain supermarkets, warehouse clubs and other mass and retail merchandisers and the entrance of other specialty retailers into the pet food and pet supply market, some of which have developed store formats similar to ours. We can make no assurances we will not face greater competition from these or other retailers in the future. In particular, if supermarket, warehouse club or other mass and retail merchandiser competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, we would likely reduce our prices on similar product offerings in order to remain competitive, which may result in a decrease in our market share, sales, operating results and profitability and require a change in our operating strategies. Comparable store sales growth may decrease as stores grow older. If we are unable to increase sales at our existing stores, our results of operations could be harmed. We can make no assurances that our stores will meet forecasted levels of sales and profitability. As a result of new store openings in existing markets, and because older stores will represent an increasing proportion of our store base over time, our comparable store sales performance may be severely impacted in future periods. In addition, a portion of a typical new store’s sales comes from customers who previously shopped at other PetSmart stores in the existing market. We may be unable to continue to open new stores and enter new markets successfully. If we are unable to successfully reformat existing stores and open new stores, our results of operations could be harmed. Also, store development may place increasing demands on management and operating systems and may erode sales at existing stores. We currently operate stores in most of the major market areas of the United States and Canada. Our ability to be successful with our store development efforts is dependent on various factors, some of which are outside of our control, including: • Identifying store sites that offer attractive returns on our investment including the impact of cannibalization of our existing stores; • Competition for those sites; • Successfully negotiating with landlords and obtaining any necessary governmental, regulatory or private approvals; • Timely construction of stores; and • Our ability to attract and retain qualified store personnel. To the extent we are unable to accomplish any of the above, our ability to open new stores and hotels may be harmed and our future sales and profits may be adversely affected. In addition, we can make no assurances that we will be able to meet the forecasted level of sales or operate our new stores or hotels profitably. The increased demands placed on existing systems and procedures, and on management by our store development plans, also could result in operational inefficiencies and less effective management of our business and associates, which could in turn adversely affect our financial performance. Opening new stores in a market will attract some customers away from other stores already operated by us in that market and diminish their sales. An increase in construction costs and/or building material costs could also adversely affect our financial performance. Our leases are typically signed approximately 12 months before a store opens. Because of that timing, we may be unable to adjust our store opening schedule to new economic conditions or a change in strategy in a timely manner. 9 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to seasonal changes associated with the pet products and services retail industry and the timing of expenses, new store openings and store closures. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuation. We typically realize a higher portion of our net sales and operating profit during the fourth fiscal quarter. Sales of certain products and services are seasonal and because our stores typically draw customers from a large area, sales may also be impacted by adverse weather or travel conditions, which are more prevalent during certain seasons of the year. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Also, controllable expenses, such as advertising, may fluctuate from quarter to quarter within a year. As a result of our expansion plans, the timing of new store openings and related preopening expenses, the amount of revenue contributed by new and existing stores, and the timing and estimated obligations of store closures, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate. Finally, because new stores tend to experience higher payroll, advertising and other store level expenses as a percentage of net sales than mature stores, new store openings will also contribute to lower store operating margins until these stores become established. Failure to successfully manage and execute our marketing initiatives could have a negative impact on our business. Our continued success and growth depend on improving customer traffic to gain sales momentum in our stores and on our e-commerce web site. Historically, we have utilized various media to reach the consumer, and we have experienced varying levels of favorable response to our marketing efforts. Often, media placement decisions are made months in advance, and our inability to accurately predict our consumers’ preferred method of communication may result in fewer customers shopping at our stores and thereby negatively impact our business and financial performance. Our operating margins at new stores may be lower than those of existing stores. Preopening expenses and lower sales volumes associated with newly opened stores can impact operating margins. In some geographic regions, we expect certain new store operating costs, particularly those related to occupancy, to be higher than in the past. As a result of our new stores and the impact of these rising costs, our total store contribution and operating margins may be lower in future periods than they have been in the past. A disruption, malfunction or increased costs in the operation, expansion or replenishment of our distribution centers or our supply chain would impact our ability to deliver to our stores or increase our expenses, which could harm our sales and results of operations. Our vendors generally ship merchandise to one of our distribution centers, which receive and allocate merchandise to our stores. Any interruption or malfunction in our distribution operations, including, but not limited to, the loss of a key vendor that provides transportation of merchandise to or from our distribution centers, could harm our sales and the results of our operations. We seek to optimize inventory levels to operate our business successfully. An interruption in the supply chain could result in out-of-stock or excess merchandise inventory levels that could harm our sales and the results of operations. We operate two fish distribution centers and have two fish distribution centers that are operated by a third-party vendor, and an interruption or malfunction in these operations or in the fulfillment of fish orders could harm our sales and results of operations. Operating the fish distribution centers is a very complex process, and if we lose the third-party operator, we can make no assurances that we could contract with another third-party to operate the fish distribution centers on favorable terms, if at all, or that we could successfully operate the fish distribution centers ourselves. In addition, our growth plans require the development of new distribution centers to service the increasing number of stores. If we are unable to successfully expand our distribution network in a timely manner, our sales or results of operations could be harmed. Failure to successfully manage our inventory could harm our business. In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to our distribution centers and inventory optimization by us and third parties, we are exposed to inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating 10 Table of Contents results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, changes in customer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products and other factors. We endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products that we sell. Demand for products, however, can change between the time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling a new product, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product selection, and accurately forecast demand. We carry a broad selection of certain products, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. If our information systems fail to perform as designed or are interrupted for a significant period of time, our business could be harmed. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively manage our financial and operational data and to maintain our in-stock positions. We possess disaster recovery capabilities for our key information systems and take measures to prevent security breaches and computer viruses. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed, loss of data or any interruption of our information systems for a significant period of time could disrupt our business. We continue to invest in our information systems. Enhancement to or replacement of our major financial or operational information systems could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our core business operations and increase our risk of loss resulting from disruptions of normal operating processes and procedures that may occur during the implementation of new information systems. We can make no assurances that the costs of investments in our information systems will not exceed estimates, that the systems will be implemented without material disruption, or that the systems will be as beneficial as predicted. If any of these events occur, our results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to protect the integrity and security of customer and associate information, we could be exposed to litigation and our business could be adversely impacted. The increasing costs associated with information security, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws, and costs resulting from consumer fraud, could adversely impact our business. We also routinely possess sensitive customer and associate information and, while we have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect that information, if our security procedures and controls were compromised, it could harm our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches. The disruption of the relationship with or the loss of any of our key vendors, a decision by our vendors to make their products available in supermarkets or through warehouse clubs and other mass and retail merchandisers, or the inability of our vendors to provide quality products in a timely or cost-effective manner or risks associated with the suppliers from whom products are sourced, could harm our business. Sales of premium pet food for dogs and cats comprise a significant portion of our net sales. Currently, most major vendors of premium pet food do not permit their products to be sold in supermarkets, warehouse clubs, or through other mass and retail merchandisers. If any premium pet food or pet supply vendor was to make its products available in supermarkets or through warehouse clubs and other mass and retail merchandisers, our business could be harmed. In addition, if the grocery brands currently available to such retailers were to gain market share at the expense of the premium brands sold only through specialty pet food and pet supply outlets, our business could be harmed. We purchase a substantial amount of pet supplies from a number of vendors with limited supply capabilities, and two of our largest vendors account for a material amount of products sold. We can make no assurances that we will be able to find new qualified vendors who meet our standards or that our current pet supply vendors will be able to accommodate our anticipated needs or comply with existing or any new regulatory requirements. In addition, we purchase a substantial amount of pet supplies from vendors outside of the United States. Effective global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. We can make no assurances that 11 Table of Contents our international vendors will be able to satisfy our requirements including, but not limited to, timeliness of delivery, acceptable product quality, packaging and labeling requirements. Any inability of our existing vendors to provide products meeting such requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner could harm our business. While we believe our vendor relationships are good, we have no material long-term supply commitments from our vendors, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. Many factors relating to our vendors and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control, including the stability of the political, economic and financial environments where they are located, their ability to operate in challenging economic environments or meet our standards and applicable legal requirements, the availability of labor and raw materials, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation and other factors. In addition, Canada’s and the United States’ foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the import of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These factors affecting our vendors and our access to products could adversely affect our operations and our financial performance. Our expanded offering of proprietary branded products may not improve our financial performance and may expose us to product liability claims. We offer various proprietary branded products, for which we rely on third-party manufacturers. Such third-party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, or the quality of the products may not meet our expectations. In addition, our proprietary branded products compete with other manufacturers’ branded items that we offer. As we continue to evaluate the number and types of proprietary branded products that we sell, we may adversely affect our relationships with our vendors, who may decide to reduce their product offerings through us and increase their product offerings through our competitors. Finally, if any of our customers are harmed by our proprietary branded products, they may bring product liability and other claims against us. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Food safety, quality and health concerns could affect our business. We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain vendor-supplied food products and hard-good products. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether valid or not, may discourage consumers from buying the products in our stores or cause vendor production and delivery disruptions. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in product liability claims against our vendors or us and a loss of consumer confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and operations. Our failure to successfully anticipate merchandise returns could have a negative impact on our business. We record a reserve for merchandise returns based on historical return trends together with current product sales performance in each reporting period. If actual returns are greater than those projected by management, additional sales returns might be recorded in the future. Actual merchandise returns may exceed our reserves. In addition, to the extent that returned merchandise is damaged, we often do not receive full retail value from the resale or liquidation of the merchandise. Further, the introduction of new merchandise, changes in merchandise mix, changes in consumer confidence, or other competitive and general economic conditions may cause actual returns to exceed merchandise return reserves. Any significant increase in merchandise returns that exceeds our reserves could harm our business and operating results. We depend on key executives, store managers and other personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which could harm our business. Our success is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior executive group and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or personnel, or the increased demands placed on our key executives and personnel by our continued growth, could adversely impact our financial performance and our ability to execute our strategies. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to 12 Table of Contents attract, train, manage and retain highly skilled store managers and qualified services personnel such as pet trainers and groomers. There is a high level of competition for these employees, and our ability to operate our stores and expand our services depends on our ability to attract and retain these personnel. Competition for qualified management and services personnel could require us to pay higher wages or other compensation to attract a sufficient number of employees. Turnover, which has historically been high among entry-level or part-time associates at our stores and distribution centers, increases the risk associates will not have the training and experience needed to provide competitive, high-quality customer service. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics and changes in employment legislation. If we are unable to retain qualified associates or our labor costs increase significantly, our business operations and our financial performance could be adversely impacted. In addition, there historically has been a shortage of qualified veterinarians. If third party veterinary services providers cannot attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified veterinarians, their ability to provide veterinary services in our stores and our ability to increase the number of stores in which veterinary services are provided, may be impacted. Our international operations may result in additional market risks, which may harm our business. We entered the Canadian market in 1996 and operate 61 stores in Canada as of February 1, 2009. As these operations grow, they may require greater management and financial resources. International operations require the integration of personnel with varying cultural and business backgrounds and an understanding of the relevant differences in the cultural, legal, and regulatory environments. Our results may be increasingly affected by the risks of our international activities, including: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Changes in international staffing and employment issues; • Tariff and other trade barriers; • Greater difficulty in utilizing and enforcing our intellectual property rights; • Failure to understand the local culture and market; • The burden of complying with foreign laws, including tax laws and financial accounting standards; and • Political and economic instability and developments. Our business may be harmed if the operation of veterinary hospitals at our stores is limited or fails to continue. We and MMIH, the third-party operator of Banfield, The Pet Hospital, and our other third-party operators are subject to statutes and regulations in various states and Canadian provinces regulating the ownership of veterinary practices, or the operation of veterinary hospitals in retail stores, that may impact our ability to host and MMIH’s ability to operate veterinary hospitals within our facilities. A determination that we, or MMIH, are in violation of any of these applicable statutes and regulations could require us, or MMIH, to restructure our operations to comply, or render us, or MMIH, unable to operate veterinary hospitals in a given location. If MMIH were to experience financial or other operating difficulties that would force it to limit its operations, or if MMIH were to cease operating the veterinary hospitals in our stores, our business may be harmed. We can make no assurances that we could contract with another third-party to operate the veterinary hospitals on favorable terms, if at all, or that we could successfully operate the veterinary hospitals ourselves. We currently account for our investment in MMIH under the equity method of accounting under Accounting Principles Board Opinion, or “APB,” No. 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock.” Any significant decrease in MMIH’s financial results may negatively impact our financial performance. 13 Table of Contents We face various risks as an e-commerce retailer. We may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our e-commerce business. We have engaged a third-party to maintain our e-commerce website and process all customer orders placed through that site. Business risks related to our e-commerce business include our ability to keep pace with rapid technological change; failure in our, or any third-party processor’s, security procedures and operational controls; failure or inadequacy in our, or any third-party processor’s, systems or ability to process customer orders; government regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to e-commerce; and collection of sales or other taxes by one or more states or foreign jurisdictions. If any of these risks materialize, it could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business could be harmed if we were unable to effectively manage our cash flow and raise any needed additional capital on acceptable terms. We expect to fund our currently planned operations with existing capital resources, including cash flows from operations and the borrowing capacity under our credit facility. If, however, we are unable to effectively manage our cash flows or generate and maintain positive operating cash flows and operating income in the future, we may need additional funding. We may also choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. Our credit facility and letter of credit facility are secured by substantially all our personal property assets, our subsidiaries and certain real property. This could limit our ability to obtain, or obtain on favorable terms, additional financing and may make additional debt financing outside our credit facility and letter of credit facility more costly. If additional capital were needed, an inability to raise capital on favorable terms could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or debt securities convertible into equity, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution or accretion to our stockholders. Failure to successfully integrate any business we acquire could have an adverse impact on our financial results. We may, from time to time, acquire businesses we believe to be complementary to our business. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, we could experience increased costs associated with operating inefficiencies which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Also, while we employ several different methodologies to assess potential business opportunities, the new businesses may not positively affect our financial performance. Changes to estimates related to our property and equipment, or operating results, that are lower than our current estimates at certain store locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges. We make estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for our store locations in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or “GAAP.” We review all stores for potential impairment. An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows over the life of the asset. These calculations require us to make a number of estimates and projections of future results. If these estimates or projections change or prove inaccurate, we may be, and have been, required to record impairment charges on certain of these store locations. If these impairment charges are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our trademarks, servicemarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our revenue or operating results. Protecting our intellectual property outside the United States could be time-consuming and costly, 14 Table of Contents and the local laws and regulations outside the United States may not fully protect our rights in such intellectual property. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have an adverse effect on our operating results. A determination that we are in violation of any contractual obligations or government regulations could result in a disruption to our operations and could harm our business. We are subject to various contractual obligations with third-party providers and federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations governing, among other things: our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, terms and conditions of employment, working conditions and citizenship requirements; veterinary practices, or the operation of veterinary hospitals in retail stores, that may impact our ability to operate veterinary hospitals in certain facilities; the transportation, handling and sale of small pets; the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and biohazardous materials; the distribution, import/export and sale of products; providing services to our customers; contracted services with various third-party providers; credit and debit card processing; the handling, security, protection and use of customer information; and the licensing and certification of services. We seek to structure our operations to comply with all applicable federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations of each jurisdiction in which we operate. Given varying and uncertain interpretations of these laws and regulations and the fact that the laws and regulations are enforced by the courts and by regulatory authorities with broad discretion, we can make no assurances that we would be found to be in compliance in all jurisdictions. We also could be subject to costs, including fines, penalties or sanctions and third-party claims as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, the above referenced contracts, laws and regulations. Failure of our internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. We have documented and tested our internal controls over financial reporting to assess their design and operating effectiveness. Internal controls over financial reporting have inherent limitations and are not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation and implementing improvements. Additionally, we may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Should we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine in future periods that we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, our results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline. Changes in laws, accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. GAAP and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters relevant to our business are highly complex, continually evolving and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by us. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by us could significantly impact our reported or expected financial performance. An unfavorable determination by tax regulators may cause our provision for income and other taxes to be inadequate and may result in a material impact to our financial results. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions and believe we have made adequate provision for income and other taxes. If, however, tax regulators in these jurisdictions determine a position we have taken on an issue is inappropriate, our financial results may be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our business exposes us to claims, litigation and risk of loss that could result in adverse publicity, harm to our brand and impact our financial results. We are occasionally subject to claims due to the injury or death of a pet in our stores or while under our care. We may also be subject to claims resulting from the transfer of diseases to other animals, associates and customers in our stores. From time to time we have been subject to class action lawsuits, governmental action, intellectual property infringement claims, product liability claims for some of the products we sell and general liability claims resulting from store based incidents. Any negative publicity or claims relating to any of the foregoing could harm our reputation and business, as well as expose us to litigation expenses and damages. There is a risk of loss from breaches in the security or other failures resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, theft or fraud. These can occur in many forms including, among others, errors, business interruptions, inappropriate behavior of or misconduct by our associates or those contracted to perform services for us, and vendors that do not perform in accordance with their contractual agreements. These events can potentially result in financial losses or other damages. We procure insurance to help manage a variety of risks including many of the foregoing claims. A failure of insurance to provide coverage for these risks may expose us to expensive defense costs and the costs of the ultimate outcome of the matter. Furthermore, in connection with our insurance policies, we are subject to decisions made by the insurance companies that may result in an increase in our costs that are outside of our control, which may impact our financial results. Our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately reserve for self-insured exposures may have a negative impact on our business. Insurance costs continue to be volatile, affected by natural catastrophes, fear of terrorism, financial irregularities and fraud at other publicly traded companies and fiscal viability of insurers. We believe that commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management, and insurance costs may increase substantially in the future. In addition, for certain types or levels of risk, such as risks associated with earthquakes, hurricanes or terrorist attacks, we may determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices. Therefore, we may choose to forego or limit our purchase of relevant commercial insurance, choosing instead to self-insure one or more types or levels of risks. Provisions for losses related to self-insured risks are based upon independent actuarially determined estimates. We maintain stop-loss coverage to limit the exposure related to certain risks. The assumptions underlying the ultimate costs of existing claim losses are subject to a high degree of unpredictability, which can affect the liability recorded for such claims. For example, variability in inflation rates of health care costs inherent in these claims can affect the amounts realized. Similarly, changes in legal trends and interpretations, as well as a change in the nature and method of how claims are settled can impact ultimate costs. Although our estimates of liabilities incurred do not anticipate significant changes in historical trends for these variables, any changes could have a considerable effect upon future claim costs and currently recorded liabilities and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Pending legislation, weather, catastrophic events, disease, or other factors, could disrupt our operations, supply chain and the supply of small pets and products we sell, which could harm our reputation and decrease sales. There is generally a significant amount of legislation pending at the federal, state, provincial and local levels regarding the handling of pets. This legislation may impair our ability to transport the small pets we sell in our stores. The small pets we sell in our stores are susceptible to health risks and diseases that can quickly decrease or destroy the supply of these pets. In addition, our supply of products may be negatively impacted by weather, catastrophic events, disease, supply chain malfunctions, contamination or trade barriers. Any disruption in our operations or the supply of products to our stores could harm our reputation and decrease our sales. 16 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the stock market, as well as general economic and market conditions, may impact our operations, sales, financial results and market price of our common stock. Over the last several years, the market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to the impact on our operations, sales and financial results of a variety of factors including, but not limited to: • General economic changes; • Actions taken by our competitors, including new product introductions and pricing changes; • Changes in the strategy and capability of our competitors; • Our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions; • The prospects of our industry; • Natural disasters, hostilities and acts of terrorism; and • National or regional catastrophes or circumstances, such as a pandemic or other public health or welfare scare. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, including but not limited to those listed above, may harm the market price of our common stock. Continued volatility and disruption to the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access credit and the financial soundness of our suppliers. Financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the risk that additional financial institutions may consolidate or become insolvent has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and volatility in credit, currency and equity markets. In such an environment, there is a risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum permitted by credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. If our lender fails to honor its legal commitments under our credit facility, it could be difficult in this environment to replace our credit facility on similar terms. And if our suppliers or key third party vendors of necessary services and technical systems encounter similar difficulties with credit or liquidity in their own businesses, our business may also be adversely affected. Our operating and financial performance in any given period may differ from the guidance we have provided to the public. We provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods. Although we believe that this guidance provides investors and analysts with a better understanding of management’s expectations for the future and is useful to our stockholders and potential stockholders, such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. If our operating or financial results for a particular period differ from our guidance or the expectations of investment analysts, or if we change our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could decline. 17 Table of Contents We have implemented some anti-takeover provisions that may prevent or delay an acquisition of us that may not be beneficial to our stockholders. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change in management or control that our stockholders may not believe is in their best interests. These provisions include: • A classified board of directors consisting of three classes; • The ability of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series with rights, obligations and preferences determined by the board of directors; • No right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • No right of stockholders to act by written consent; • Certain advance notice procedures for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors; and • No right to cumulative voting. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation requires a 662/3% vote of stockholders to: • alter or amend our bylaws; • remove a director without cause; or • alter, amend or repeal certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and the application of Section 203 could delay or prevent an acquisition of PetSmart. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 