Risk Factors In the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subjected to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with store expansion, investments in information systems, international expansion, vendor reliability, competitive forces and government regulatory actions. Our actual results could differ materially from projected results due to some or all of the factors discussed below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as those discussed in Our Stores, Distribution, Information Systems, Competition and Government Regulation sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to increase sales at our existing stores or successfully open new stores, our results of operations could be harmed. Our continued revenue growth depends on our ability to increase sales at our stores. There can be no assurance that our stores will meet forecasted levels of sales and profitability. In addition, we expect to open approximately 90 net new stores in fiscal 2006. Our ability to open additional stores is dependent on various factors including: • Identifying store sites that offer attractive returns on our investment; 8 Table of Contents • Competition for those sites; • Successfully negotiating with landlords and obtaining any necessary governmental, regulatory or private approval; • Timely construction of stores; and • Our ability to attract and retain qualified store personnel. To the extent we are unable to accomplish any of the above, our ability to open new stores may be harmed. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the forecasted level of sales or operate our new stores profitably. New stores may place increasing demands on management and operating systems, may erode sales at existing stores and comparable store sales growth may decrease as stores grow older. We currently operate stores in most of the major market areas of the United States and Canada. Our plans for fiscal 2006 include opening approximately 90 net new stores, primarily in existing multi-store markets. The increased demands placed on management by opening new stores could result in operational inefficiencies and less effective management of the business and associates, which could in turn adversely affect our financial performance. Opening new stores may attract some customers away from other stores already operated by us in those markets and diminish their sales. Our comparable store sales increases were 4.2% and 6.3% for fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. As a result of new store openings in existing markets, and because older stores will represent an increasing proportion of our store base over time, our comparable store sales increases may be lower or sales could decrease in future periods. Our operating margins at new stores may be lower than those of existing stores. Preopening expenses and lower sales volumes associated with newly opened stores can impact operating margins. In some geographic regions, we expect certain new store operating costs, particularly those related to occupancy, to be higher than in the past. As a result of our increasing number of net new stores and the impact of these rising costs, our total store contribution and operating margins may be lower in future periods than they have been in the past. A disruption, malfunction, or increased costs in the operation or expansion of our distribution centers or our supply chain would impact our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores or increase our expenses, which could harm our sales and results of operations. Our vendors generally ship our merchandise to one of our distribution centers, which receive and allocate merchandise to our stores. Any interruption or malfunction in our distribution operations, including, but not limited to, the loss of a key vendor that provides transportation of merchandise from our distribution centers to stores, could harm our sales and the results of our operations. We operate one fish distribution center and have two fish distribution centers that are operated by a third-party vendor, and an interruption or malfunction to their business could harm our sales and results of operations. In such an event, there can be no assurance that we could contract with another third party to operate the fish distribution centers on favorable terms, if at all, or that we could successfully operate the fish distribution centers ourselves. In addition, if we are unable to successfully expand our distribution centers, our sales or results of operations could be harmed. If our information systems fail to perform as designed or are interrupted for any reason for a significant period of time, our business could be harmed. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively manage our sales, financial data, warehousing, distribution, merchandise planning and replenishment functions and to maintain our in-stock positions. We possess offsite recovery capabilities for our key information systems. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed, or 9 Table of Contents any interruption of our information systems for any reason for a significant period of time could disrupt our business and harm our sales and profitability. We continue to invest in our information systems. There can be no assurance that the costs of investments in our information systems will not exceed estimates or that they will be as beneficial as predicted. If we are unable to realize the benefits of improved systems, our results of operations could be harmed. If we accidentally disclose sensitive customer information, our business could be harmed. We routinely possess sensitive customer information such as credit card numbers, and a failure in our security procedures and operational controls could result in a release of that information. We could experience losses from lawsuits and negative publicity that may affect our business. A decline in consumers’ discretionary spending could reduce our sales and harm our business. Our sales depend on consumer spending, which is influenced by factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the availability of discretionary income, weather, consumer confidence and unemployment levels. We may experience declines in sales during economic downturns. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending could reduce our sales and harm our business. Our results may fluctuate due to seasonal changes associated with the pet food and pet supply retailing industry and the timing of expenses, new store openings and store closures. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuation. We typically realize a higher portion of our net sales and operating profit during the fourth fiscal quarter. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Controllable expenses, such as advertising, could fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter within a fiscal year. Sales of certain products and services are seasonal. Because our stores typically draw customers from a large trade area, sales may also be impacted by adverse weather or travel conditions, which are more prevalent during certain seasons of the year. Finally, as a result of our expansion plans, the timing of new store openings and related preopening expenses, the amount of revenue contributed by new and existing stores, and the timing and estimated obligations of store closures, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate. The pet food and pet supply retail industry is very competitive, and continued competitive forces may reduce our sales and profitability. The pet food and pet supply retail industry is very competitive. We compete with supermarkets, warehouse clubs and other mass and retail merchandisers, many of which are larger and have significantly greater resources than we have. We also compete with a number of pet supply warehouse or specialty stores, smaller pet store chains, catalog retailers, Internet retailers and pet stores. The industry has become increasingly competitive due to the expansion of pet-related product offerings by certain supermarkets, warehouse clubs or other mass and retail merchandisers and the entrance of other specialty retailers into the pet food and pet supply market, some of which have developed store formats similar to ours. There can be no assurance we will not face greater competition from these or other retailers in the future. In particular, if our supermarket, warehouse club or other mass and retail competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, we would likely reduce our prices in order to remain competitive, which may result in a decrease in our sales and profitability and require a change in our operating strategies. The loss of any of our key vendors, a decision by our vendors to make their products available in supermarkets or through warehouse clubs and other mass and retail merchandisers, or the inability of our vendors to provide products in a timely or cost-effective manner, could harm our business. We buy from several hundred vendors worldwide and, together, our two largest vendors accounted for approximately 15.1% of our total sales for fiscal 2005. Sales of premium pet food for dogs and cats comprise a significant portion of our revenues. Currently, most major vendors of premium pet foods do not permit their 10 Table of Contents products to be sold in supermarkets, warehouse clubs or through other mass and retail merchandisers. If any premium pet food or pet supply vendors were to make their products available in supermarkets or through warehouse clubs and other mass and retail merchandisers, our business could be harmed. In addition, if the grocery brands currently available to such retailers were to gain market share at the expense of the premium brands sold only through specialty pet food and pet supply outlets, our business could be harmed. We purchase a substantial amount of pet supplies from a number of vendors with limited supply capabilities. There can be no assurance that our current pet supply vendors will be able to accommodate our anticipated needs or comply with existing or any new regulatory requirements. In addition, we purchase a substantial amount of pet supplies from vendors outside of the United States. There can be no assurance our overseas vendors will be able to satisfy our requirements including, but not limited to, timeliness of delivery, acceptable product quality, packaging and labeling requirements. Any inability of our existing vendors to provide products in a timely or cost-effective manner could harm our business. While we believe our vendor relationships are satisfactory we have no long-term supply commitments from our vendors, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which could harm our business. Our success is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior executive group and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or personnel, or the increased demands placed on our key executives and personnel by our continued growth, could adversely impact our financial performance and our ability to execute our strategies. In addition, our future success will depend on our ability to attract highly skilled store managers and qualified services personnel such as pet trainers and groomers. There is a high level of competition for these employees, and our ability to operate our stores and expand our services depends on our ability to attract and retain these personnel. In addition, there historically has been a shortage of qualified veterinarians. If Banfield cannot attract and retain a sufficient number of veterinarians, Banfield’s ability to provide veterinary services in our stores and increase the number of stores in which Banfield provides veterinary services, may be impacted. Our international operations may result in additional market risks, which may harm our business. We entered the Canadian market in 1996 and operated 30 stores in Canada as of January 29, 2006. As these operations grow, they may require greater management and financial resources. International operations require the integration of personnel with varying cultural and business backgrounds and an understanding of the relevant differences in the legal and regulatory environments. Our results may be increasingly affected by the risks of our international activities, including: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Changes in international staffing and employment issues; • Tariff and other trade barriers; • The burden of complying with foreign laws, including tax laws; and • Political and economic instability and developments. Our business may be harmed if the operation of veterinary hospitals at our stores is limited or fails to continue. We and MMI Holdings, Inc (MMIH), the third party operator of Banfield, The Pet Hospital, are subject to statutes and regulations in various states and Canadian provinces regulating the ownership of veterinary practices, or the operation of veterinary hospitals in retail stores, that may impact our ability and MMI’s ability to operate veterinary hospitals within our facilities. A determination that we or MMI are in violation of any of these applicable statutes and regulations could require us or MMI to restructure our operations to comply or render us or MMI unable to operate veterinary hospitals in a given location. If MMIH or MMI were to experience financial or other operating difficulties that would force it to limit its operations, or if MMIH were to cease operating the veterinary hospitals in 11 Table of Contents our stores, our business may be harmed, both directly and due to a decrease in customer traffic. There can be no assurance that we could contract with another third party to operate the veterinary hospitals on favorable terms, if at all, or that we could successfully operate the veterinary hospitals ourselves. For a further discussion of our relationship with MMI, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Related Party Transactions.” Our business would be harmed if we were unable to raise any needed additional capital on acceptable terms. We believe our capital resources and cash flows from operations will enable us to maintain our currently planned operations for the foreseeable future. If, however, we are unable to generate and maintain positive operating cash flows and operating income in the future, we may need additional funding. We may also choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all our personal property assets, our subsidiaries and certain real property. This could limit our ability to obtain, or obtain on favorable terms, additional financing and may make additional debt financing outside our credit facility more costly. If additional capital were needed, an inability to raise capital on favorable terms would harm our business and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or debt securities convertible into equity, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. A determination of a violation of any contractual obligations or government regulations could result in a disruption to our operations and could harm our business. We are subject to various contractual obligations with third party providers and federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations governing among other things: our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, terms and conditions of employment, working conditions and citizenship requirements; veterinary practices, or the operation of veterinary hospitals in retail stores, that may impact our ability to operate veterinary hospitals in certain facilities; the transportation, handling and sale of small pets; environmental regulations with respect to the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and biohazardous materials; the distribution, import/export and sale of products; providing services to our customers; services contracted for with various third party providers; the handling, security, protection and use of customer information; and the licensing and certification of services. We seek to structure our operations to comply with all federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations of each jurisdiction in which we operate. Given varying and uncertain interpretations of these laws and regulations and the fact that the laws and regulations are enforced by the courts and by regulatory authorities with broad discretion, there can be no assurances that we would be found to be in compliance in all jurisdictions. We also could be subject to costs, including fines, penalties or sanctions and third party claims as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, the above referenced contracts, laws and regulations. A determination by tax regulators may cause our provision for income and other taxes to be inadequate and may result in a material impact to our financial position. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions and believe an adequate provision for income and other taxes has been made. If, however, tax regulators in these jurisdictions determine that a position that we have taken on an issue is inappropriate, this may result in a material impact to our financial position. The Internal Revenue Service is currently examining our tax returns for fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004. While the examination has not been finalized, no issues have been identified that would have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Our business exposes us to claims that could result in adverse publicity, harm to our brand and a reduction in our sales. We are occasionally subject to claims due to the injury or death of a pet in our stores or while under our care in connection with the pet services we provide. In addition, we sell certain small pets including fish, birds, reptiles and small rodents in our stores. Given the large number of small pets we sell, deaths or injuries of these small pets 12 Table of Contents sometimes occur while they are within our care. As a result, we may be subject to claims that we do not properly care for these small pets. We may also be subject to claims resulting from the transfer of diseases from pets in our stores to other animals, associates and customers. From time to time, we have been subject to product liability claims for some of the products we sell. Any negative publicity or claims relating to any of the foregoing could harm our reputation and business, as well as expose us to litigation expenses and damages. Pending legislation, weather, disease or other factors could disrupt the supply of the small pets and products we sell, which could harm our reputation and decrease sales. There is generally a significant amount of legislation pending at the federal, state, provincial and local levels regarding the handling of pets. This legislation may impair our ability to transport the small pets we sell in our stores. The small pets we sell in our stores are susceptible to diseases that can quickly decrease or destroy the supply of these pets. In addition, our supply of products may be negatively impacted by weather, disease, contamination or trade barriers. Any disruption in the supply of products to our stores, due to legislation, weather, disease or any other factor, could harm our reputation and decrease our sales. Fluctuations in the stock market, as well as general economic and market conditions, including but not limited to fuel costs, may harm the market price of our common stock. Over the last several years, the market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to operating results and other factors including, but not limited to: • Announcements by analysts regarding their assessment of PetSmart and our prospects; • Announcements of our financial results, particularly if they differ from investors’ expectations; • General economic changes, including increased fuel costs; • Actions taken by our competitors, including new product introductions and pricing changes; • Changes in the strategy and capability of our competitors; • Our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and consolidations; • The prospects of our industry; and • Natural disasters, hostilities and acts of terrorism. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, including but not limited to fuel costs, may harm the market price of our common stock. We have implemented some anti-takeover provisions, including a stockholder rights plan that may prevent or delay an acquisition of us that may not be beneficial to our stockholders. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change in management or control that our stockholders may not believe is in their best interests. These provisions include: • A classified board of directors consisting of three classes; • The ability of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series with rights, obligations and preferences determined by the board of directors; • No right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • No right of stockholders to act by written consent; 13 Table of Contents • Certain advance notice procedures for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors; and • No right to cumulative voting. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation requires a 662/3% vote of stockholders to: • alter or amend our bylaws; • remove a director without cause; or • alter, amend or repeal certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation. In August 1997, our Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan, commonly referred to as a poison pill, under which one preferred share purchase right was distributed on August 29, 1997, for each share of common stock held on that date. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and the application of Section 203 could have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of PetSmart. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 