Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business Our improvements in comparable store sales and operating results in fiscal 2005 may not be indicative of our future performance trends, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain such rate of improvement and achieve profitability. During fiscal 2003 and 2004, the comparable store sales of our Wet Seal concept declined significantly, which resulted in a loss from continuing operations in both fiscal years. In fiscal 2005, comparable store sales of our company as a whole increased by 44.7%, as compared to a 13.0% decline during fiscal 2004, resulting in a narrowed loss from continuing operations. However, we can provide no assurance that comparable store sales increases will continue or that we will achieve profitability in the future. Our ability to maintain the success of our Wet Seal and Arden B. concepts depends in large part on a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including forecasting of demand and fashion trends, hiring of a full-time chief merchant for the Wet Seal concept, providing an appropriate mix of appealing merchandise for our targeted customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, selecting effective marketing techniques, optimizing store performance, negotiating acceptable renewals of expiring leases and general economic conditions. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain the recent rate of improvement in results of operations in the future. We have incurred significant operating losses and negative cash flows in recent years. We incurred significant operating losses and negative cash flows during each of fiscal 2003 and 2004 which caused liquidity problems and resulted in very tight vendor payment terms. In 2005, we raised additional capital, generated a smaller operating loss and had positive cash flow from operations, which improved our liquidity substantially. If, in the future, we were to experience operating losses and negative cash flows, resulting in renewed concern about our ability to pay vendors, we might need additional financing. Such financing would likely be very costly, and would potentially be unavailable, on reasonable terms. The closing of certain Wet Seal stores may not significantly improve our future financial condition or results of operations. In December 2004, we announced that we would close approximately 150 Wet Seal stores as part of our turn-around strategy. We completed our inventory liquidation sales and the closing of 153 Wet Seal stores in March 2005. During fiscal 2005, we also closed an additional nine Wet Seal stores, of which one was due to lease expiration, and closed five Arden B. stores, which were all due to lease expirations. We also re-opened eight previously closed Wet Seal stores during fiscal 2005. Although the stores closed in 2005 had been underperforming as compared with our other Wet Seal stores, there is no assurance that in the long term these store closures will have a significant positive impact on our operating results or that we will not have to close additional stores in the future. Historically we have grown through opening new stores; however, due to our financial condition in the past three years we have not recently opened a significant number of additional stores and, while we are planning to open new stores this year, we cannot be certain that future store openings will be successful. Our company has historically expanded by opening new stores, remodeling existing stores and acquiring other store locations or businesses that complement and enhance our operations. From time to time, we have 7 Table of Contents created new retail concepts such as Arden B. While we plan to open 20 to 25 new Wet Seal and/or Arden B. stores during fiscal 2006, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in opening that number of stores or that such stores will be profitable. We have had significant management changes over the last eighteen months and these changes may impact our ability to execute our business strategy in the near term. In general, our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of our senior management, particularly personnel engaged in merchandising and store operations, and on our ability to identify, hire and retain additional key management personnel. In November 2004, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the President of our Wet Seal concept resigned from our company. In December 2004 and January 2005, we appointed a new President and Chief Executive Officer and four members to our board of directors. In August 2005, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer resigned from our company, and was replaced by a new Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in December 2005. On March 6, 2006, two new members joined our Board of Directors. Effective March 1, 2006, the president of our Arden B. concept resigned and was replaced by a new president of merchandise for the Arden B. concept on March 13, 2006. We are also in the process of recruiting a chief merchant for the Wet Seal concept. We anticipate that we will continue to experience a transition period as this new management team is fully integrated. Due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the retail apparel industry, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, hire or retain key personnel with the merchandising and management skills necessary to consistently offer appealing products to our target market. We need to employ personnel with the requisite merchandising skills to continue our merchandising strategy implemented by Mr. Gold. Michael Gold, a well-regarded retailer, has assisted our company with our recent merchandising initiatives. Under the direction of Mr. Gold, our Wet Seal concept introduced and implemented a new merchandising strategy to attract teenage girls to our stores. On July 6, 2005, we entered into an agreement with Mr. Gold to confirm his continuing services as a consultant to our company and to secure his services until January 31, 2007. Although our agreement with Mr. Gold provides him with significant financial incentives that he would forfeit if he terminates his agreement with us before January 31, 2007, if Mr. Gold terminates his agreement and he elects not to continue his relationship with our company, or if we do not agree with Mr. Gold to extend his consulting agreement beyond January 2007 and are unable to employ personnel with similar merchandising skills by that time, our results of operations may be significantly and adversely impacted. Our company has been a defendant in a class action and the subject of an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. As previously reported, our company and certain of our former directors and former officers have been named as defendants in several securities class actions filed on behalf of persons who purchased our common stock between January 7, 2003, and August 19, 2004. These actions have been consolidated in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The consolidated complaint alleged violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act by, among other allegations, making false and misleading statements concerning the progress of our company to stem the losses of our Wet Seal concept and return that business to profitability as well as the illegal use of material non-public information by former directors and a company controlled by them. The plaintiff sought class certification, compensatory damages, interest, costs and attorneys’ fees and expenses. 8 Table of Contents On September 15, 2005, the consolidated class action was dismissed against all defendants in the lawsuit. However, plaintiffs were granted leave to file an amended complaint, which they did file on November 23, 2005. We filed an additional motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and it is anticipated that the motion will be argued this year. In the event plaintiffs achieve a favorable outcome, and even though we have insurance coverage for such claims, significant damages could be assessed against our company that exceed available insurance coverage, which would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our company and our results of operations. In February 2005, we announced that the Securities and Exchange Commission had commenced an informal, non-public inquiry regarding our company. We indicated that the Securities and Exchange Commission’s inquiry generally related to the events and announcements regarding our company’s 2004 second quarter earnings and the sale of Class A common stock by La Senza Corporation and its affiliates during 2004. On April 19, 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission advised us that it issued a formal order of investigation in connection with its review of matters relating to our company. Consistent with the previous announcement, we intend to cooperate fully with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s inquiry. To date we have complied with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s requests by providing to them relevant documentation and written responses to their questions. It is too soon to determine whether the outcome of this inquiry will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. The issuance of restricted shares under our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan has resulted in and will result in substantial dilution of our earnings per share, significant charges to our company and volatility in our operating results. In January 2005, we established our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan to attract and retain directors, officers, employees and consultants, which, as amended, reserves 12,500,000 shares of Class A common stock for issuance. As of January 28, 2006, an aggregate of 10,260,000 shares of restricted Class A common stock had been granted to Joel N. Waller, the Chief Executive Officer; Gary White, our Executive Vice President of Wet Seal; John J. Luttrell, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Michael Gold and our non-employee directors. A total of 5,700,000 of these shares have vested as of April 10, 2006, and are fully transferable by the holders. As a result of our granting of restricted shares, we have incurred and will continue to incur non-cash compensation charges to our earnings over the vesting periods or when the restrictions lapse, which has had and will continue to have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and on our earnings per share. In addition, the non-cash compensation charges for certain of the restricted shares are based on our common stock price on the vesting date for such shares, which could result in significant volatility in the amount of such charges. Our reported earnings and earnings per share will be significantly impacted as a result of the issuance of the securities in the January 2005 and May 2005 private placements and their subsequent conversion or exercise. As a result of our issuance of the securities in the January 2005 and May 2005 private placements, as discussed further in Note 6 and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere within this Annual Report, and in accordance with accounting guidelines noted in Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 98-5, “Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios,” EITF Issue No. 00-27, “Application of EITF Issue No. 98-5, Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios, to Certain Convertible Instruments” and Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 14, “Accounting for Convertible Debt issued with Stock Purchase Warrants,” we determined the fair market value of the warrants as well as the value of the beneficial conversion features associated with our secured convertible notes. The value assigned to our warrants and the beneficial conversion features reduced the face values of our secured convertible notes, resulting in a discount that will be amortized over the life of our secured convertible notes. The amortization of the discount will result in significant non-cash charges and will have an adverse effect on our earnings and earnings per share. 9 Table of Contents Prior to the conversion or the exercise of the securities in the January 2005 private placement and the warrants issued in the May 2005 private placement, the shares of Class A common stock underlying these securities will be included in the calculation of fully diluted earnings per share, provided their inclusion is not anti-dilutive. Prior to the conversion of the convertible preferred stock issued in the May 2005 private placement, the shares of Class A common stock underlying the convertible preferred stock will be included in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, provided their inclusion is not anti-dilutive. In addition, although the holders of these securities may not convert or exercise the respective securities if they would own (together with any of their respective affiliates) more than 9.99% of Class A common stock, upon such conversion and/or exercise, as applicable, our basic and diluted earnings per share would be affected by the inclusion of the underlying shares of Class A common stock in our per share calculations. Also, since a majority of our secured convertible notes remained outstanding as of the end of fiscal 2005, interest expense, whether amortized, capitalized or paid, including acceleration of discount and deferred financing cost amortization and reversal of accrued interest upon conversions of secured convertible notes, will have a significant impact on our financial results. Covenants contained in agreements governing our existing indebtedness restrict the manner in which we conduct our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, growth prospects and ability to procure merchandise for our stores. Our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our secured convertible notes contain covenants that restrict the manner in which we conduct our business. Subject to certain exceptions, these covenants restrict, among other things, our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness; • make investments or acquisitions; • merge, consolidate, dissolve or liquidate; • engage in certain asset sales (including the sale of stock); • grant liens on assets; • pay dividends; and • close stores. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreements governing our existing indebtedness, acceleration of any amounts then outstanding, the foreclosure upon collateral securing the debt obligations, or the unavailability of the lines of credit. If we are unable to anticipate and react to new fashion trends and/or if there is a decrease in the demand for fashionable, casual apparel, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our brand image is dependent upon our ability to anticipate, identify and provide fresh inventory reflecting current fashion trends. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately or in a timely manner to these fashion trends, we could experience reduced consumer acceptance of our products, a diminished brand image and higher markdowns. These factors could result in lower selling prices and sales volumes for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. This risk is particularly acute because we rely on a limited demographic customer base for a large percentage of our sales. Our sales also depend upon the continued demand by our customers for fashionable, casual apparel. Demand for our merchandise could be negatively affected by shifts in consumer discretionary spending to other goods, such as electronic equipment, computers and music. If the demand for apparel and related merchandise were to decline, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected by any resulting decline in sales. 10 Table of Contents Our failure to effectively compete with other retailers for sales and locations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The women’s retail apparel industry is highly competitive, with fashion, quality, price, location, in-store environment and service being the principal competitive factors. Our Wet Seal and Arden B. stores compete with specialty apparel retailers, department stores and certain other apparel retailers, including Aeropostale, Charlotte Russe, Gap, Banana Republic, H&M, Old Navy, Pacific Sunwear, American Eagle, Urban Outfitters, Forever 21, Express, J.C. Penney, bebe, and BCBG. Many of our competitors are large national chains that have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. We face a variety of competitive challenges, including: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in a narrowly-defined market segment; • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers in our target demographic; • obtaining favorable site locations within malls on reasonable terms; • sourcing merchandise efficiently; and • pricing our products competitively and achieving customer perception of value. In addition to the competitive challenges specified above, many of our competitors are large national chains, which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and which may be better able to adapt to changing conditions that affect the competitive market. Also, our industry has low barriers to entry that allow the introduction of new products or new competitors at a fast pace. Any of these factors could result in reductions in sales or the prices of our products which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, although we believe that we compete effectively for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls, competition for prime locations and lease terms within shopping malls, in particular, is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new locations or maintain our existing locations on terms favorable to us, if at all. Because of the importance of our brand names, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We have registered trademarks for Wet Seal and Arden B. (which are registered in the retail store services class and pending in others). We take actions to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that others will not imitate our products or infringe on our intellectual property rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not resist or seek to block the sale of our products as violative of their intellectual property rights. If we are required to stop using any of our registered or non-registered marks, our sales could decline and, consequently, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is affected by local, regional and national economic conditions. Our business is sensitive to consumer spending patterns and preferences. Various economic conditions affect the level of spending on the merchandise we offer, including general business conditions, interest rates, taxation, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Our growth, sales and profitability may be adversely affected by unfavorable occurrences in these economic conditions on a local, regional or national level. We are especially affected by economic conditions in California, where approximately 13% of our stores are located. 11 Table of Contents Further, the majority of our stores are located in regional shopping malls. We derive sales, in part, from the high volume of traffic in these malls. The inability of mall “anchor” tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic around our stores, or the decline in popularity of malls as shopping destinations, would reduce our sales volume and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is seasonal in nature, and any decrease in our sales or margins during these periods could have a material adverse effect on our company. The retail apparel industry is highly seasonal. We generate our highest levels of sales during the Christmas season, which begins the week of Thanksgiving and ends the first Saturday after Christmas, and the “back-to-school” season, which begins the last week of July and ends the first week of September. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on the sales generated during these peak periods. Any decrease in sales or margins during these periods, whether as a result of economic conditions, poor weather or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our company. We depend upon key vendors to supply us with merchandise for our stores, and the failure of these vendors to provide this merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on our ability to purchase current season apparel in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. The inability or failure of our key vendors to supply us with adequate quantities of desired merchandise, the loss of one or more key vendors or a material change in our current purchase terms could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by causing us to experience excess inventories and higher markdowns. We have no long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us in the future, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon a single distribution center, and any significant disruption in the operation of this center could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The distribution functions for all of our stores are handled from a single, leased facility in Foothill Ranch, California. Any significant interruption in the operation of this facility due to a natural disaster, accident, system failure or other unforeseen event could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and, consequently, lead to a decrease in sales. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We do not authenticate the license rights of our suppliers. We purchase merchandise from a number of vendors who hold manufacturing and distribution rights under the terms of license agreements. We generally rely upon each vendor’s representation concerning those manufacturing and distribution rights and do not independently verify whether each vendor legally holds adequate rights to the licensed properties they are manufacturing or distributing. If we acquire unlicensed merchandise, we could be obligated to remove it from our stores, incur costs associated with destruction of the merchandise if the vendor is unwilling or unable to reimburse us and be subject to civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with our procurement of products from non-U.S. based vendors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A portion of our products is manufactured outside the United States. As a result, we are susceptible to greater losses as a result of a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a 12 Table of Contents number of factors beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These factors include: • import or trade restrictions (including increased tariffs, customs duties, taxes or quotas) imposed by the United States government in respect of the foreign countries in which our products are currently manufactured or any of the countries in which our products may be manufactured in the future; • political instability or acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies and/or restrictions on the transfer of funds between the United States and foreign jurisdictions, any of which could adversely affect our merchandise flow and, consequently, cause our sales to decline; and • local business practices that do not conform to our legal or ethical guidelines. Our imports are limited by textile agreements between the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions, including Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and South Korea. These agreements impose quotas on the amounts and types of merchandise that may be imported into the United States from these countries. These agreements also allow the United States to limit the importation of categories of merchandise that are not now subject to specified limits. The United States and the countries in which our products are produced or sold may also, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. In addition, none of our international suppliers or international manufacturers supplies or manufactures our products exclusively. As a result, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers and import quota capacity. If we were unable to obtain our raw materials and finished apparel from the countries where we wish to purchase them, either because room or space under the necessary quotas was unavailable or for any other reason, or if the cost of doing so should increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Violation of labor laws and practices by our suppliers could harm our business and results of operations. As part of our commitment to human rights, we require our domestic and foreign suppliers to abide by a Code of Conduct for Vendors and Suppliers, which sets forth guidelines for acceptable factory policies and procedures regarding workplace conditions, including wages and benefits, health and safety, working hours, working age, environmental conditions and ethical and legal matters. If one of our suppliers fails to comply with this Code, we may be required to discontinue our relationship with that supplier, which could result in a shortfall in our inventory levels. Further, if the supplier’s non-compliance were publicly disclosed, our customers may refuse to purchase our products. Either of these events could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We experience business risks as a result of our Internet concept. We compete with Internet concepts that handle similar lines of merchandise. These competitors have certain advantages, including the inapplicability of sales tax and the absence of retail real estate and related costs. As a result, increased Internet sales by our competitors could result in increased price competition and decreased margins. Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • reliance on third-party computer and hardware providers; • diversion of sales from our retail stores; and • online security breaches and/or credit card fraud. Our inability to effectively address these risks and any other risks that we face in connection with our Internet concept could adversely affect the profitability of our Internet concept. Our involvement in lawsuits, both now and in the future, could negatively impact our business. We are currently a defendant in a class action lawsuit, and we have been involved in a variety of other legal proceedings in the past. Although we intend to vigorously defend the claims against us, if any of the claims in 13 Table of Contents these lawsuits or any future lawsuits are resolved unfavorably to us, we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages or pursue alternative business strategies. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our defense of these actions has resulted, and may continue to result, in substantial costs to us as well as require the significant dedication of management resources. If we choose to settle any of these lawsuits, the settlement costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash resources and financial condition. Risks Related to our Class A Common Stock Our stockholders may experience additional dilution due to previous private placements of convertible securities. Since May 2004, we have completed private placements which are potentially very dilutive to our stockholders. • In June 2004, as part of our private placement of equity securities to institutional and other accredited investors, we issued warrants to acquire 2,109,275 shares of Class A common stock. The warrants issued in this private placement may be adjusted from time to time for stock splits, stock dividends, distributions and similar transactions. As of January 28, 2006, no warrants issued in this private placement have been exercised for shares of Class A common stock. • In January 2005, we issued our convertible notes which were convertible initially into an aggregate amount of 37,333,333 shares of Class A common stock and warrants which were initially exercisable into 14,900,000 shares of Class A common stock. The conversion and exercise prices of the these securities have full ratchet anti-dilution protection, which means the conversion or exercise price, as the case may be, will be adjusted from time to time (subject to certain exceptions) in the event of the issuance of shares of Class A common stock or of securities convertible or exercisable into shares of Class A common stock, at prices below the applicable conversion or exercise price. On May 3, 2005, a portion of the warrants issued in the January 2005 private placement were exercised for 3,359,997 shares of Class A common stock. As of January 28, 2006, convertible notes issued in this private placement have been converted into 6,943,634 shares of Class A common stock and warrants issued in this private placement, including the warrants exercised on May 3, 2005, have been exercised into 3,739,891 shares of Class A common stock. • In May 2005, we issued shares of preferred stock which are initially convertible into 8,200,000 shares of Class A common stock and warrants which are initially exercisable into 7,500,000 shares of Class A common stock. The shares of preferred stock have customary weighted average anti-dilution protection as well as anti-dilution protection for stock splits, stock dividends and distributions and similar transactions. Alternatively, the warrants will only be adjusted from time to time for stock splits, stock dividends, distributions and similar transactions. As of January 28, 2006, shares of preferred stock issued in this private placement have been converted into 4,980,000 shares of Class A common stock and warrants issued in this private placement have been exercised into 13,393 shares of Class A common stock. Although certain conversion and exercise restrictions are placed upon the holders of the securities issued in the January 2005 private placement and the securities issued in the May 2005 private placement, the issuance of the additional shares of Class A common stock will cause our existing stockholders to experience significant dilution in their investment in our company. In addition, if the cash liquidity issues described elsewhere in these risk factors require us to obtain additional financing involving the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders’ investments would be further diluted. Such dilution could cause the market price of Class A common stock to decline, which could impair our ability to raise additional financing. The price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated significantly during the past few years and may fluctuate significantly in the future, which may make it difficult for you to resell the shares of our Class A common stock. Our Class A common stock, which is traded on the NASDAQ National Market, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of 14 Table of Contents Class A common stock. The market price of Class A common stock is likely to fluctuate, both because of actual and perceived changes in our operating results and prospects and because of general volatility in the stock market. The market price of Class A common stock could continue to fluctuate widely in response to factors such as: • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; • the addition or loss of suppliers, customers and other business relationships; • changes in financial estimates of, and recommendations by, securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the apparel and consumer products industries; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of Class A common stock; • general market and economic conditions; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in the price and trading volume of Class A common stock in response to factors such as those set forth above could be unrelated or disproportionate to our actual operating performance. Our Class A common stock could be subject to short selling and other hedging techniques and, if this occurs, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. In general, Class A common stock could be subject to a number of hedging transactions including the practice of short selling. Short selling, or “shorting,” occurs when stock is sold which is not owned directly by the seller; instead, the stock is “loaned” for the sale by a broker-dealer to someone who “shorts” the stock. In most situations, this is a short-term strategy by a seller, and based upon volume, may at times drive stock values down. Based upon a review of the current stock ownership filings made by our stockholders with the Securities and Exchange Commission, we have identified several investment firms that own equity interests in our company. These firms may actively engage in hedging transactions, including the short selling of Class A common stock from time to time. Moreover, a significant percentage of the convertible securities issued in our private placement transactions are held by investment firms who may engage in such transactions. Any such hedging activities could reduce the value of our current stockholders’ equity interests in our company at and after the time the hedging transactions have occurred. We have never paid dividends on our Class A common stock and do not plan to do so in the future. Holders of shares of our Class A common stock are entitled to receive any dividends that may be declared by our board of directors. However, we have not paid any cash dividends on our Class A common stock and we do not expect to do so in the future. Also, our agreements with our senior lenders and the indenture governing our notes prohibit us from paying dividends to our stockholders. Investors who anticipate the need for dividends from investments should not purchase our Class A common stock. Our charter provisions, shareholder rights plan and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to designate and issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences that could differentially and adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of Class A common stock, which could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. In addition, under certain circumstances our board of directors may grant rights to our stockholders under our shareholder rights plan. Furthermore, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy 15 Table of Contents contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. The possible issuance of preferred stock, the granting of rights to stockholders under our shareholder rights plan and the application of anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could each have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest, making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of Class A common stock and limiting the price that investors might in the future be willing to pay for shares of Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of fiscal 2005 that remain unresolved. 