Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessGeneral economic conditions, perceptions of such conditions by our customers and the impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending have adversely impacted our results of operations and may continue to do so.Our performance is subject to general economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer confidence and consumer spending. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. As a result of recent increases in payroll taxes and increasing fuel costs, disposable income has decreased, which may lead to a decrease in demand for our merchandise. In addition, continued difficult economic conditions may impact many facets of our operations, including, among other things, the ability of one or more of our vendors to deliver their merchandise in a timely manner or otherwise meet their obligations to us. If pressures on disposable income and poor economic conditions in the U.S. and world economic markets continue, or if they deteriorate further, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.We may continue to experience declines in comparable store sales in our Wet Seal division, and there can be no guarantee that the strategic initiatives we are implementing to improve our results will be successful. During fiscal 2012 our comparable store sales declined by 10.1% in our Wet seal division. We have taken steps to return to our core expertise of fast fashion merchandising which long supported our success in the past in the Wet Seal division. However, there can be no guarantee that our financial results will improve and, if they do, there can be no guarantee as to the timing, duration or significance of such improvement. We have experienced poor comparable store sales and operating results in our Arden B division, and we cannot assure that we will be able to re-establish and sustain improvements in the future.In fiscal 2011 and 2012, we experienced weak comparable same store sales and operating results in the Arden B division due to not having the appropriate inventory levels in key performing categories and fashion content weakness. We began to see improvement in January 2013. There can be no guarantee that our efforts to improve results will be successful and that the financial performance of our Arden B division will improve.We have experienced losses and relied on our cash reserves to fund our operations and implement our strategic growth plans. If we are unable to improve cash flow from operations or obtain additional capital to meet our liquidity and capital resource requirements and pursue our growth strategy, our business may be adversely affected.In recent years, we have maintained strong levels of cash, cash equivalents and investments and extinguished our debt. However, in fiscal 2012, we incurred a net loss of $113.2 million and negative cash flow from operations of $26.2 million. If we continue to experience negative cash flow from operations, we will need to continue to rely on our cash reserves to fund our 9Table of Contentsbusiness or seek additional capital. There can be no assurance that any such capital would be available to us. Accordingly, if our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our working capital needs and planned capital expenditures, and our cash reserves are depleted, we may need to take various actions, such as down-sizing and/or eliminating certain operations, which could include exit costs, or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic investments or other actions, and our business may be adversely affected.If we are unable to anticipate and react to new fashion and product demand trends, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We rely on a limited demographic customer base for a large percentage of our sales. Our brand image is dependent upon our ability to anticipate, identify and provide fresh inventory reflecting current fashion trends.Furthermore, the continued difficult economic conditions make it increasingly difficult for us to accurately predict product demand trends. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately or in a timely manner to these fashion and product demand trends, we could experience reduced consumer acceptance of our products, a diminished brand image and higher markdowns. These factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.If we decrease the price that we charge for our products or offer extensive, continued promotions on our products, we may earn lower gross margins and our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected.The prices that we are able to charge for our products depend on, among other things, the type of product offered, the consumer response to the product and the prices charged by our competitors. To the extent that we are forced to lower our prices, our gross margins will be lower and our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected.We have recorded asset impairment charges in the past and we may record material asset impairment charges in the future. Quarterly, we assess whether events or changes in circumstances have occurred that potentially indicate the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable. If we determine that the carrying value of long-lived assets is not recoverable, we will be required to record impairment charges relating to those assets. For example, our assessments during fiscal 2012 indicated that operating losses or insufficient operating income existed at certain retail stores, with a projection that the operating losses or insufficient operating income for those locations would continue. As such, we recorded non-cash charges of $27.0 million during fiscal 2012 within asset impairment in the consolidated statements of operations to write down the carrying values of these stores' long-lived assets to their estimated fair values. Our quarterly evaluation of store assets includes consideration of current and historical performance and projections of future profitability. The profitability projections rely upon estimates made by us, including store-level sales, gross margins, and direct expenses, and, by their nature, include judgments about how current strategic initiatives will impact future performance. If we are not able to achieve the projected key financial metrics for any reason, including because any of the strategic initiatives being implemented do not result in significant improvements in our current financial performance trend, we would incur additional impairment of assets in the future. In the event we record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may face risks associated with the transition of our senior management, newly appointed chief executive officer and our new board of directors. In general, our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of our senior management, particularly personnel engaged in merchandising and store operations, and on our ability to identify, hire and retain additional key management personnel. We have had significant changes in management in the beginning of fiscal 2013 and during fiscal 2012, 2011, and 2010, and these changes may impact our ability to execute our business strategy.On July 23, 2012, our previous Chief Executive Officer was terminated. On October 19, 2012, our previous Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandise Officer of our Wet Seal division resigned from our Company. On February 1, 2013, our previous President and Chief Operating Officer resigned from our Company. On February 20, 2013, our previous Senior Vice President of Store Operations resigned from our Company.Effective January 7, 2013, we appointed Mr. John D. Goodman as our new chief executive officer. While Mr. Goodman immediately became involved in the day-to-day activities of our company, we anticipate that we will experience a transition period before he is fully integrated into the organization. During this transition period, we may experience a disruption to our customer relationships, employee morale and/or business.10Table of ContentsIn addition, our recent appointment of six new members to our Board and the resulting transition and integration of these individuals may impact our ability to execute our business strategy in the near term. On September 18, 2012, we appointed two new directors to our Board, Ms. Kathy Bronstein and Mr. John D. Goodman, who subsequently was appointed our chief executive officer, as noted above. On October 4, 2012, we entered into an agreement (“Settlement Agreement”) with Clinton Group, Inc. (“CGI”), for the purpose of resolving a pending consent solicitation and effecting an orderly change in the composition of our Board. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, four of the members of our Board resigned, Mr. Harold Kahn, Mr. Jonathan Duskin, Mr. Sidney Horn and Mr. Henry Winterstern, and four new directors, Ms. Dorrit Bern, Ms. Lynda Davey, Ms. Mindy Meads and Mr. John Mills, were appointed as directors of the Board to fill the four vacancies created by the resignations. While all of the recently appointed directors have become immediately engaged in our business, we expect that we will continue to experience a transition period until they are fully integrated into their roles. We cannot provide any assurance that there will not be any disruption that adversely impacts our business during such transition period. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist stockholders.Over the last few years, proxy contests and other forms of stockholder activism have been directed against numerous public companies in retail businesses, including us. As noted in the preceding risk factor, in 2012, we were engaged in a proxy contest with CGI which resulted in our entering into the Settlement Agreement and appointing four new directors to fill vacancies created by director resignations, and led to a significant increase in our operating expenses, which contributed to our net loss in fiscal 2012. Although the proxy contest was settled, we could become engaged in another proxy contest, or experience other stockholder activism, in the future. For example, on February 13, 2013, CGI delivered a letter to our Board of Directors expressing appreciation for recent measures implemented by the Board, but suggesting the return of additional capital to the Company's stockholders via a Dutch Auction share repurchase program. Our Board considered CGI's suggestion and advised CGI that it believed that our existing strategies and plans were prudent and in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders.If stockholder activism continues or increases, particularly with respect to matters which our Board of Directors, in exercising their fiduciary duties, disagree with or have determined not to pursue, our business could be adversely affected because:•responding to actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management; and•perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, business partners and customers.In addition, if faced with another proxy contest, we may not be able to respond successfully to the contest or dispute, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, if individuals are elected to our Board with a differing agenda, our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders may be adversely affected. These actions could cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.Our company's ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping centers in which many of our stores are located.Substantially all of our stores are located in regional mall shopping centers. Factors beyond our control impact mall traffic, such as general economic conditions and consumer spending levels. Consumer spending and mall traffic remain depressed due to the continued difficult economic conditions. As a result, mall operators have been facing increasing operational and financial difficulties. The increasing inability of mall “anchor” tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic around our stores, the increasing inability of mall operators to attract “anchor” tenants and maintain viable operations and the increasing departures of existing “anchor” and other mall tenants due to declines in the sales volume and in the popularity of certain malls as shopping destinations, have reduced and may continue to reduce our sales volume and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our ability to procure merchandise could be adversely affected by changes in our vendors' factoring arrangements.Changes in our vendors' factoring arrangements may threaten the factors' financial viability and ability to provide factoring services to its customers. Although we do not have a direct relationship with factors, a portion of our vendors who supply our company with merchandise have direct factoring arrangements. Vendors who engage in factoring transactions will typically sell their accounts receivable to a factor at a discount in exchange for cash payments, which can be used to finance the business and operations of the vendors.11Table of ContentsIf the financial condition of our vendors' factors were to deteriorate and certain of our vendors were unable to procure alternative factoring arrangements from competitors of their factor on the same or substantially similar terms, our ability to timely procure merchandise for our stores could be adversely affected. This could require the devotion of significant time and attention by our management to adequately resolve such matters. In turn, our results of operations and financial condition could suffer.Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal or state income tax purposes is subject to limitations.We believe that our net operating losses (“NOLs”) are a valuable asset and we intend to take actions to protect the value of our NOLs. However, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) contains provisions that may limit the availability of federal net operating loss carryforwards to be used to offset taxable income in any given year upon the occurrence of certain events, including significant changes in our stockholders' ownership interests in our company. Under Section 382, potential limitations on NOLs are triggered when there has been an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in our stock ownership over a three-year period).We incurred ownership changes in April 2005 and December 2006, which resulted in Section 382 limitations applying to NOLs generated prior to those dates, which were approximately $150.6 million. Despite these ownership changes, we may utilize all of our $121.5 million of NOLs as of February 2, 2013, to offset future taxable income. Future transactions involving the sale or other transfer of our stock may result in additional ownership changes for purposes of Section 382. The occurrence of such additional ownership changes could limit our ability to utilize our remaining NOLs and possibly other tax attributes. Limitations imposed on our ability to use NOLs and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income could cause us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we otherwise would if such limitations were not in effect. Any further ownership change also could cause such NOLs and other tax attributes to expire unused, thereby reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs and other tax attributes to us and adversely affecting our future cash flows.In addition, we may determine that varying state laws with respect to NOL utilization may result in lower limits, or an inability to utilize NOLs in some states altogether, which could result in us incurring additional state income taxes. During fiscal 2008, the State of California passed legislation that suspended our ability to utilize NOLs to offset taxable income in fiscal 2008 and 2009. In late 2010, the State of California extended such legislation, which further suspended use of NOLs to fiscal 2010 and 2011. As a result, we incurred additional cash state income taxes in California. In the event that state law results in lower limits, or an inability to utilize loss carryforwards, or we become subject to federal alternative minimum tax, this could adversely affect our future cash flows.We may suffer negative publicity and our business may be harmed if we need to recall any products we sell.Each of our Wet Seal and Arden B divisions has in the past needed to, and may in the future need to, recall products that we determine may present safety issues. If products we sell have safety problems of which we are not aware, or if we or the Consumer Product Safety Commission recall a product sold in our stores, we may suffer negative publicity and, potentially, product liability lawsuits, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows.If we are unable to pass through increases in raw material, labor and energy costs to our customers through price increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our product costs rise from time to time due to increasing commodity prices, primarily for cotton, as well as due to higher production labor and energy costs. We may not be able to, or may elect not to, pass these increases on to our customers through price increases, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We depend upon a single center for our corporate offices and distribution activities, and any significant disruption in the operation of this center could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.Our corporate offices and the distribution functions for all of our stores and e-commerce business are handled from a single, leased facility in Foothill Ranch, California. In general, this area of California is subject to earthquakes and wildfires. Any significant interruption in the operation of this facility due to a natural disaster, arson, accident, system failure or other unforeseen event could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and, consequently, lead to a decrease in sales. Furthermore, we have little experience operating essential functions away from our main corporate offices and are uncertain what effect operating satellite facilities might have on our business, personnel and results of operations. The financial 12Table of Contentslosses incurred may exceed our insurance for earthquake damages and business interruption costs related to any such disruption. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.Fluctuations in our revenues for the "back-to-school" season in the third fiscal quarter and the "holiday" season in the fourth fiscal quarter have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We experience seasonal fluctuations in revenues, with a disproportionate amount of our revenues being generated in the third fiscal quarter “back-to-school” season, which begins the last week of July and ends during September, and the fourth fiscal quarter “holiday” season. In addition, any factors that harm our third and fourth fiscal quarter operating results, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year.In order to prepare for our peak shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry at other times of the year. An unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during our peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross profit. Alternatively, an unanticipated increase in demand for certain of our products could leave us unable to fulfill customer demand and result in lost sales and customer dissatisfaction.Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the merchandise mix and the timing and level of inventory markdowns. As a result, historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily indicative of future period-to-period results. Reliance should not be placed on the results of a single fiscal quarter, particularly the third fiscal quarter “back-to-school” season or fourth fiscal quarter “holiday” season, as an indication of our annual results or our future performance.Extreme or unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business.Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could adversely affect our business. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business.Our failure to effectively compete with other retailers for sales and locations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The women's retail apparel industry is highly competitive, with fashion, quality, price, location and service being the principal competitive factors. Our Wet Seal and Arden B stores compete with specialty apparel retailers, department stores and certain other apparel retailers, including Abercrombie & Fitch, Aeropostale, American Eagle, Anthropologie, Banana Republic, BCBG, bebe, Body Central, Charlotte Russe, Express, Forever 21, Gap, Guess?, H&M, Macy's, Nordstrom, Old Navy, Pacific Sunwear, rue21, Target, Urban Outfitters, Zara, and other regional retailers. Many of our competitors are large national chains that have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. We face a variety of competitive challenges, including:•anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands;•maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in narrowly-defined market segments;•sourcing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers in our target markets and maintaining a sufficient quantity of these items for which there is the greatest demand;•obtaining favorable site locations within malls on reasonable terms;•sourcing merchandise efficiently;•pricing our products competitively and achieving customer perception of value;•offering attractive promotional incentives while maintaining profit margins; and•withstanding periodic downturns in the apparel industry.Our industry has low barriers to entry that allow the introduction of new products or new competitors at a fast pace. Any of these factors could result in reductions in sales or the prices of our products which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.13Table of ContentsIn fiscal 2013, we currently plan to open 19 new Wet Seal stores primarily to replace the approximately 14 to 18 stores that will be closing upon lease expiration in fiscal 2013, with openings primarily in outlet centers, in which we have experienced relatively strong sales productivity and profitability. We currently plan to close approximately 9 Arden B stores in fiscal 2013 upon lease expiration, as we focus efforts on improving merchandising and marketing strategies in that business. While we compete effectively for favorable site locations and lease terms, competition for prime locations within malls and outlet centers, in particular, and within other locations is intense and we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain new locations on terms favorable to us, if at all.In addition, actions of our competitors, particularly increased promotional activity, can negatively impact our business. In light of the continued difficult economic conditions, pricing is a significant driver of consumer choice in our industry and we regularly engage in price competition, particularly through our promotional programs. To the extent that our competitors lower prices, through increased promotional activity or otherwise, our ability to maintain gross profit margins and sales levels may be negatively impacted. There can be no assurance that our competitors' increased promotional activity will not negatively impact our business.The upcoming expiration of leases for approximately 90 of our Wet Seal and Arden B existing stores could lead to increased costs associated with renegotiating our leases and/or relocating our stores.We have approximately 90 existing store leases scheduled to expire in fiscal 2013. In connection with the expiration of these leases, we will have to renegotiate new leases, which could result in higher rental amounts for each store. We may not be able to obtain new lease terms that are favorable to us. In addition, as a result of renewal negotiations, we may be required by the landlord to remodel as a condition for renewal, which could result in significant capital expenditures. In addition, some landlords may refuse to renew our leases due to our lower sales per square foot as compared with other prospective tenants. If we are unable to agree to new terms with our landlords, we will have to close or relocate these stores, which could result in a significant expenditure and could lead to an interruption in the operation of our business at the affected stores, and we could be required to relocate to less desirable locations or may not be able to find viable locations at all.Our computer hardware and software systems are vital to the efficient operation of our retail and Web-based stores, and damage to these systems could harm our business.We rely on our computer hardware and software systems for the efficient operation of our retail and Web-based stores. Our information systems provide our management with real-time inventory, sales and cost information that is essential to the operation of our business. Due to our number of stores, geographic diversity and other factors, we would be unable to generate this information in a timely and accurate manner in the event our hardware or software systems were unavailable. These systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a number of factors, including earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters and power loss, computer systems failure, security breaches, and Internet, telecommunications or data network failure.A significant information systems failure could reduce the quality or quantity of operating data available to our management. If this information were unavailable for any extended period of time, our management would be unable to efficiently run our business, which would result in a reduction in our net sales.A cybersecurity incident could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.A cyberattack may bypass the security for our information systems, causing an information system security breach and leading to a material disruption of our information systems, the loss of business information and/or the loss of e-commerce sales. Such a cyberattack could result in any of the following:•theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property;•operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our information systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities;•negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers; and•loss of sales generated through our Internet websites through which we sell merchandise to customers to the extent these websites are affected by a cyberattack.As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm our business.14Table of ContentsWe are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of our Internet or e-commerce services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of e-commerce payment services, unencumbered Internet communications, consumer protection, the provision of e-commerce payment services, unencumbered Internet access to our services, the design and operation of websites and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how certain existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our costs of doing business.If we fail to comply with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, we may be subject to fines or penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are highly dependent on the use of credit cards to complete sale transactions in our stores and through our websites. If we fail to comply with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, we may become subject to fines or limitations on our ability to accept credit cards. Through our sale transactions, loyalty programs and other methods, we may obtain information about our customers which is subject to federal and state privacy laws. These laws and the judicial interpretation of such laws are constantly evolving. If we fail to comply with these laws, we may be subject to fines or penalties, which could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other's intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results.Our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We have registered trademarks for Wet Seal and Arden B (which are registered in the retail store services and other classes). We take actions to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, others may infringe on our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may lose market share to our competitors, the value of our brands could be diminished and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.We are also subject to the risk that claims will be brought against us for infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties, seeking to block the sale of our products as violative of their intellectual property rights or payment of monetary amounts. In particular, we are subject to copyright infringement claims for which we may not be entitled to indemnification from our suppliers. In addition, in recent years, companies in the retail industry, including us, have been subject to patent infringement claims from non-practicing entities, or “patent trolls.” Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. As a result, any such claim, or the combination of multiple claims, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are required to stop using any of our registered or nonregistered trademarks, our sales could decline and, consequently, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.Covenants contained in agreements governing our senior credit facility restrict the manner in which we conduct our business, under certain circumstances, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, growth prospects and ability to procure merchandise for our stores.Our senior revolving credit facility contains covenants that restrict the manner in which we conduct our business under certain circumstances. Subject to certain exceptions, these covenants restrict or limit our ability to, among other things:•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness;•make certain investments or acquisitions;•merge, consolidate, dissolve or liquidate;•engage in certain asset sales (including the sale of stock);•repurchase stock;•grant liens on assets;•pay dividends; and•close stores.A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreements governing our existing indebtedness, acceleration of any amounts then outstanding, the foreclosure upon collateral securing the debt obligations, or the unavailability of the line of credit.15Table of ContentsWe do not authenticate the license rights of our suppliers.We purchase merchandise from a number of vendors who purport to hold manufacturing and distribution rights under the terms of license agreements or that assert that their products are not subject to any restrictions as to distribution. We generally rely upon each vendor's representation concerning those manufacturing and distribution rights and do not independently verify whether each vendor legally holds adequate rights to the licensed properties they are manufacturing or distributing. If we acquire unlicensed merchandise or merchandise violating a registered trademark, we could be obligated to remove it from our stores, incur costs associated with destruction of the merchandise if the vendor is unwilling or unable to reimburse us and be subject to civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.We are subject to risks associated with our procurement of products from non-U.S. based vendors and U.S. vendors that purchase products internationally, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The majority of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. and are primarily bought by us within the U.S. from domestic importers. As a result, we are susceptible to greater losses as a result of a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.These factors include:•import or trade restrictions (including increased tariffs, customs duties, taxes or quotas) imposed by the U.S. government in respect of the foreign countries in which our products are currently manufactured or any of the countries in which our products may be manufactured in the future;•political instability or acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds between the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions and/or potential disruption of imports due to labor disputes at U.S. ports, any of which could adversely affect our merchandise flow and, consequently, cause our sales to decline; and•local business practices that do not conform to our legal or ethical guidelines.The U.S. and the countries in which our products are produced or sold may also, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. In addition, none of our international suppliers or international manufacturers supplies or manufactures our products exclusively. As a result, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers and import quota capacity. If we were unable to obtain our raw materials and finished apparel from the countries where we wish to purchase them, either because room under the necessary quotas was unavailable or for any other reason, or if the cost of doing so should increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Violation of labor laws and practices by our suppliers could harm our business and results of operations.Our company's policy is to use only those sourcing agents and independent manufacturers who operate in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The violation of laws, particularly labor laws, by an independent manufacturer, or by one of the sourcing agents, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or sourcing agent's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S. or in the country in which the manufacturing facility is located, and the public revelation of those illegal or unethical practices, could cause significant damage to our company's reputation and could subject the Company to legal proceedings and/or prohibit the Company from selling product received from an accused vendor. Although our manufacturer operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control the business and operations of the manufacturers and cannot guarantee their legal and regulatory compliance.We are exposed to business risks as a result of our e-commerce operations.We operate e-commerce stores at www.wetseal.com and www.ardenb.com. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third-party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems. Specific risks include: (i) diversion of sales from our stores; (ii) rapid technological change; (iii) liability for e-commerce content; and (iv) risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. In addition, Internet operations involve risks which are beyond our control that could have a direct material adverse effect on our operational results, including: (i) price competition involving the items we intend to sell; (ii) the entry of our vendors into the Internet business in direct competition with us; (iii) the level of merchandise 16Table of Contentsreturns experienced by us; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) e-commerce security breaches involving unauthorized access to our and/or customer information; (vi) credit card fraud; and (vii) competition and general economic conditions specific to the Internet, e-commerce and the apparel industry. Our inability to effectively address these risks and any other risks that we face in connection with our Internet operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.Changes in the health care regulatory environment could cause us to incur additional expense and our failure to comply with related legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business.In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the U.S. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage for those already insured. We do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation, however, as additional requirements from the legislation continue to go into effect, the Company expects to incur an increase in its expenses. If this legislation and future changes in healthcare legislation significantly increase our expenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face risks related to claims and legal proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.From time to time, we are subject to various claims and legal proceedings, including, without limitation, those arising or allegedly arising out of wage and hour claims, discrimination claims and other claims under labor laws and intellectual property claims. For example, we are currently subject to the legal proceedings described under “Part I - Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The claims and legal proceedings to which we are or may become subject could involve large damages or settlements and significant defense costs. We maintain insurance to cover a portion of the losses associated with settlements and adverse judgments, but those losses could exceed the scope of the coverage in effect, or coverage of particular claims or legal proceedings could be unavailable or denied. As a result, certain claims and legal proceedings could arise for which we do not have insurance coverage or insurance provides only partial coverage and which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.Risks Related to our Common StockThe price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated significantly during the past several years and may fluctuate significantly in the future.Our Class A common stock, which is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. The market price of our Class A common stock is likely to fluctuate, both because of actual and perceived changes in our operating results and prospects and because of general volatility in the stock market. The market price of our Class A common stock could continue to fluctuate widely in response to factors such as:•actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations, including comparable store sales;•the addition or loss of suppliers, customers and other business relationships;•changes in financial estimates of, and recommendations by, securities analysts;•conditions or trends in the apparel and consumer products industries;•additions or departures of key personnel;•sales of our Class A common stock;•general market and economic conditions; and•other events or factors, including the realization of any of the risks described in this risk factors section, many of which are beyond our control.Fluctuations in the price and trading volume of our Class A common stock in response to factors such as those set forth above could be unrelated or disproportionate to our actual operating performance.We have never paid dividends on our Class A common stock and do not plan to do so in the future.Holders of shares of our Class A common stock are entitled to receive any dividends that may be declared by our Board of Directors. However, we have not paid any cash dividends on our Class A common stock and we do not expect to for the foreseeable future. Also, our agreements with our senior lenders limit the payment of dividends to our stockholders.Our charter provisions and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects.17Table of ContentsOur certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to designate and issue, without stockholder approval, up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences that could differentially and adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our Class A common stock, which could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. Furthermore, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met.The possible issuance of preferred stock and the application of anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could each have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest, making the acquisition of a substantial block of Class A common stock more difficult and limiting the price that investors might in the future be willing to pay for shares of our Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 