Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessGeneral economic conditions, perceptions of such conditions by our customers and the impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending have adversely impacted our results of operations and may continue to do so.Our performance is subject to general economic conditions such as employment levels, salary and wage levels, the availability of consumer credit, inflation, high tax rates and high fuel prices and their impact on levels of consumer confidence and consumer spending. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, often decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. As a result of increases in payroll taxes and high fuel costs, as well as the continued elevated rate of unemployment, particularly in the teen sector, disposable income has decreased, which has adversely impacted demand for our merchandise and may continue to do so. In addition, continued difficult economic conditions may impact many facets of our operations, including, among other things, the ability of one or more of our vendors to deliver their merchandise in a timely manner or otherwise meet their obligations to us. If pressures on disposable income and poor economic conditions in the U.S. and world economic markets continue, or if they deteriorate further, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.We are implementing a change in business strategy and there is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing this strategy.As further discussed under Item 1. Business, we have begun to implement a business turnaround strategy the key objectives of which are to improve Wet Seal and Arden B store performance, drive significant multi-year growth of our e-commerce business, rebalance our store base to include a greater mix of outlet center and off-mall locations, and expand our Wet Seal plus-size business. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our plans. If we are unable to achieve any or all of the key objectives of our business strategy, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.We may continue to experience declines in comparable store sales in our Wet Seal division, and there can be no guarantee that the strategic initiatives we are implementing to improve our results will be successful. During fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013 our comparable store sales declined by 10.1% and 3.6%, respectively, and we experienced weak operating results in our Wet seal division. We have taken steps to improve to our core expertise of fast fashion merchandising, which long supported past historical results in the Wet Seal division. However, there can be no assurance that our financial results will improve and, if they do, there can be no guarantee as to the timing, duration or significance of such improvement. 10We have experienced poor comparable store sales and operating results and significantly reduced the number of stores in our Arden B division, and we cannot assure that we will be able to re-establish improvements in the future or operate the business profitably.In fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, we experienced comparable store sales declines of 9.9% and 7.6%, respectively, and weak operating results in the Arden B division due to fashion content weakness and not having the appropriate inventory levels in key performing categories. If we are not able to improve performance, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition as of February 1, 2014, we operated 57 Arden B stores and plan to close approximately 13 Arden B stores in fiscal 2014. The reduced store count will result in lower quantities of merchandise that we purchase and may result in significantly higher per unit costs for merchandise, which would negatively impact our gross margin. The reduced store count may also negatively impact our ability to leverage fixed operating costs and operate the business profitably. We have experienced losses and relied on our cash reserves to fund our operations and implement our strategic growth plans. If we are unable to improve cash flow from operations or obtain additional capital to meet our liquidity and capital resource requirements and pursue our turnaround and growth strategies, our business may be adversely affected.In recent years, we have maintained strong levels of cash, cash equivalents and investments and extinguished our debt. However, in fiscal 2013, we incurred a net loss of $38.4 million and negative cash flow from operations of $17.6 million. As more fully described in Part II, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources herein, on March 26, 2014, we consummated the sale of $27 million of convertible notes as well as warrants to purchase up to 8.8 million shares of our Class A common stock in a private placement to a single institutional investor with net proceeds of approximately $25 million to us. However, if we continue to experience negative cash flow from operations, we will need to continue to rely on our cash reserves to fund our business or seek additional capital. There can be no assurance that any additional equity or debt financing would be available to us, or if available, that such financing would be on favorable terms to us. Accordingly, if our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our working capital needs and planned capital expenditures, and our cash reserves are depleted, we may need to take various actions, such as down-sizing and/or eliminating certain operations, which could include exit costs, or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic investments or other actions, and our business may be adversely affected.If we are unable to anticipate and react to new fashion and product demand trends, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We rely on a limited demographic customer base for a large percentage of our sales. Our brand image is dependent upon our ability to anticipate, identify and provide fresh inventory reflecting current fashion trends.The continued difficult economic conditions make it increasingly difficult for us to accurately predict product demand trends. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately or in a timely manner to these fashion and product demand trends, we could experience reduced consumer acceptance of our products, a diminished brand image and higher markdowns, and our financial results will suffer.If we decrease the price that we charge for our products or offer extensive, continued promotions on our products, we may earn lower gross margins and our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected.The prices that we are able to charge for our products depend on, among other things, the type of product offered, the consumer response to the product and the prices charged by our competitors. To the extent that we are forced to lower our prices, our gross margins will be lower and our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected.Extreme or unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business.Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could adversely affect our business. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could lead to our stores being temporarily closed or make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business.11Our failure to effectively compete with other retailers for sales and locations could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The women's retail apparel industry is highly competitive, with fashion, quality, price, brand recognition, location and service being the principal competitive factors. Our Wet Seal and Arden B stores compete with specialty apparel retailers, department stores and certain other apparel retailers, including Abercrombie & Fitch, Aeropostale, American Eagle, Anthropologie, Banana Republic, BCBG, bebe, Body Central, Charlotte Russe, Express, Forever 21, Gap, Guess?, H&M, Macy's, Nordstrom, Old Navy, Pacific Sunwear, rue21, Target, Urban Outfitters, Zara, and other regional retailers. Many of our competitors are large national chains that have greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. We face a variety of competitive challenges, including:•anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands;•maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in narrowly-defined market segments;•sourcing innovative, differentiated high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers in our target markets and maintaining a sufficient quantity of these items for which there is the greatest demand;•obtaining favorable site locations within malls on reasonable terms;•sourcing merchandise efficiently;•pricing our products competitively and achieving customer perception of value;•offering attractive promotional incentives while maintaining profit margins; and•withstanding periodic downturns in the apparel industry.Our industry has low barriers to entry that allow the introduction of new products or new competitors at a fast pace. Any of these factors could result in reductions in sales or the prices of our products which, in turn, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.In fiscal 2014, we currently plan to open 10 new Wet Seal stores primarily to replace the approximately 17 stores that will be closing upon lease expiration during the year, with openings primarily in outlet and off-mall centers. We currently plan to close approximately 13 Arden B stores in fiscal 2014 upon lease expiration, as we focus efforts on improving merchandising and marketing strategies in that business. While we compete effectively for favorable site locations and lease terms, competition for prime locations within malls and outlet and power centers, in particular, and within other locations is intense and we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain new locations on terms favorable to us, if at all.In addition, actions of our competitors, particularly increased promotional activity, can negatively impact our business. In light of the continued difficult economic conditions, pricing is a significant driver of consumer choice in our industry and we regularly engage in price competition, particularly through our promotional programs. To the extent that our competitors lower prices, through increased promotional activity or otherwise, our ability to maintain gross profit margins and sales levels may be negatively impacted.Our ability to obtain merchandise quickly of sufficient quality and at competitive prices could suffer as a result of any deterioration or change in our vendor relationships or their businesses.We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. Instead, we purchase all of our merchandise from third-party vendors. Our business and financial performance depend in large part on our ability to quickly evaluate merchandise for style and fit and also to purchase a wide array of desired merchandise from our vendors at competitive prices and in the quantities we require. We have no direct oversight of the quality of the merchandise at the factory level and only inspect for quality of the finished product when the merchandise is received in our warehouse. We generally operate without long-term purchase contracts or other contractual guarantees. Rather, we receive and review samples almost daily for fit and fashion evaluation. The benefits we currently experience from our vendor relationships could be adversely affected if a sufficient number of our vendors:•choose to stop providing merchandise samples to us or otherwise discontinue selling products to us; •raise the prices they charge us to a level such that we are unable to sell merchandise at prices that make sense for us and our customers; •change pricing terms to require us to pay on delivery or upfront; 12•reduce our access to styles, brands and products by entering into broad exclusivity arrangements with our competitors or otherwise in the marketplace; •sell similar products to our competitors with similar or better pricing; or •initiate or expand sales of apparel and accessories to retail customers directly through their own stores, catalogs or on the Internet and compete with us directly. Market and economic events that adversely impact our vendors could impair our ability to obtain merchandise in sufficient quantities and at competitive prices. For instance, the cost of cotton may increase. An increase could cause our vendors to increase their prices, which could impact the prices we charge and our results of operations. We historically have established good working relationships with many small- to mid-size vendors that often have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories. Many of these vendors rely on credit from third parties such as factoring companies. If the credit relationships of our vendors should change, we may be required to pay for merchandise from our vendors earlier than our historical practice. As we grow and need greater amounts of inventory, we may need to develop new relationships with larger vendors as our current vendors may be unable to supply us with needed quantities. We may not be able to find similar products on the same terms from larger vendors. If we are unable to acquire suitable merchandise of sufficient quality, in sufficient quantities and at acceptable prices due to the loss of, or a deterioration or change in our relationship with, our vendors or events harmful to our vendors occur, it may adversely affect our business and results of operations.We are subject to risks associated with our procurement of products from non-U.S. based vendors and U.S. vendors that purchase products internationally, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The majority of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. and are primarily bought by us within the U.S. from domestic importers. As a result, we are susceptible to greater losses as a result of a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.These factors include:•import or trade restrictions (including increased tariffs, customs duties, taxes or quotas) imposed by the U.S. government in respect of the foreign countries in which our products are currently manufactured or any of the countries in which our products may be manufactured in the future;•political instability or acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds between the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions and/or potential disruption of imports due to labor disputes at U.S. ports, any of which could adversely affect our merchandise flow and, consequently, cause our sales to decline; and•local business practices that do not conform to our legal or ethical guidelines.The U.S. and the countries in which our products are produced or sold may also, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. In addition, none of our international suppliers or international manufacturers supplies or manufactures our products exclusively. As a result, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers and import quota capacity. If we or our vendors were unable to obtain our raw materials and finished apparel from the countries where we wish to purchase them, either because room under the necessary quotas was unavailable or for any other reason, or if the cost of doing so should increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The upcoming expiration of leases for approximately 62 of our Wet Seal existing stores could lead to increased costs associated with renegotiating our leases and/or relocating our stores.We have approximately 62 existing Wet Seal store leases scheduled to expire in fiscal 2014. In connection with the expiration of these leases, we will have to renegotiate new leases, which could result in higher rental amounts for each store. We may not be able to obtain new lease terms that are favorable to us. In addition, as a result of renewal negotiations, we may be required by some landlords to remodel as a condition for renewal, which could result in significant capital expenditures. In addition, some landlords may refuse to renew our leases due to our lower sales per square foot as compared with other prospective tenants. If we are unable to agree to new terms with our landlords, we will have to close or relocate these stores, which could result in a significant expenditure and could lead to an interruption in the operation of our business at the affected stores, and we could be required to relocate to less desirable locations or may not be able to find viable locations at all.13Early termination provisions in store leases could lead to landlords terminating leases in profitable stores.We have approximately 14 existing store leases that have early termination provisions exercisable by the landlord if we do not meet certain minimum sales levels. Termination of these store leases would negatively impact sales and, in cases where the store is operating profitably, negatively impact overall profitability.Our company's ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping centers in which many of our stores are located.Substantially all of our stores are located in regional mall shopping centers. Factors beyond our control impact mall traffic, such as general economic conditions and consumer spending levels. Consumer spending and mall traffic remain depressed due to the continued difficult economic conditions. As a result, mall operators have been facing increasing operational and financial difficulties. The increasing inability of mall “anchor” tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic around our stores, the increasing inability of mall operators to attract “anchor” tenants and maintain viable operations and the increasing departures of existing “anchor” and other mall tenants due to declines in the sales volume and in the popularity of certain malls as shopping destinations, have reduced and may continue to reduce our sales volume and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our computer hardware and software systems are vital to the efficient operation of our retail and Web-based stores, and damage to these systems could harm our business.We rely on our computer hardware and software systems for the efficient operation of our retail and Web-based stores. Our information systems provide our management with real-time inventory, sales and cost information that is essential to the operation of our business. Due to our number of stores, geographic diversity and other factors, we would be unable to generate this information in a timely and accurate manner in the event our hardware or software systems were unavailable. These systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a number of factors, including earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters and power loss, computer systems failure, security breaches, and Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Our corporate hardware and systems are located in a seismic risk zone and we do not have fully redundant backup systems in place.A significant information systems failure could reduce the quality or quantity of operating data available to our management. If this information were unavailable for any extended period of time, our management would be unable to efficiently run our business, which would result in a reduction in our net sales.A cybersecurity incident could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.A cyber-attack may bypass the security for our information systems, causing an information system security breach and leading to a material disruption of our information systems, the loss of business information and/or the loss of e-commerce sales. Such a cyber-attack could result in any of the following:•theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property;•operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of our information systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities;•negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers; and•loss of sales generated through our Internet websites through which we sell merchandise to customers to the extent these websites are affected by a cyber-attack.As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.In addition, our business involves the receipt, storage, processing and transmission of personal information about customers and employees. Personal information about customers is obtained in connection with our membership programs, e-commerce operations digital media businesses as well as through retail transactions in stores operated by us. We may share information about such persons with vendors and third parties that assist with certain aspects of our business. Our handling and use of personal information about customers and employees is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws, regulations, and standards such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard change from time to time, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes, and may be difficult to achieve. If we fail to comply with these laws, regulations and standards, we could be subjected to legal risk. In addition, even if we fully comply with all laws, regulations, and standards and even though we have taken significant steps to 14protect the personal information of our customers and employees, we could experience a data security breach and our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future sales or decreased usage of credit and debit card products. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our users' proprietary information and cause interruption in our operations. Any compromise of our data security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws or standards, significant legal and financial exposure beyond the scope or limits of insurance coverage, increased operating costs associated with remediation, equipment acquisitions or disposal and added personnel, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business or investor confidence. In May 2008, we became aware that a criminal group obtained unauthorized access to our information systems in an attempt to steal credit and debit card data of our customers. Through an investigation led by an independent, third-party computer forensics firm, and corroborated by members of the U.S. Secret Service and U.S. Department of Justice, we found no evidence to indicate that any customer credit or debit card data or other personally identifiable information was taken. In working with the major credit card processing agencies, we also identified no instances of credit card fraud to suggest that any such data was taken.We are exposed to business risks as a result of our e-commerce operations.We operate e-commerce stores at www.wetseal.com and www.ardenb.com. Expanding our e-commerce business is one of the key objectives of our business turnaround strategy. In addition, our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third-party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems. Specific risks include: (i) diversion of sales from our stores; (ii) rapid technological change; (iii) liability for e-commerce content; and (iv) risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Internet operations also involve risks which are beyond our control that could have a direct material adverse effect on our operating results, including: (i) price competition involving the items we intend to sell; (ii) the entry of our vendors into the Internet business in direct competition with us; (iii) the level of merchandise returns experienced by us; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) e-commerce security breaches involving unauthorized access to our and/or customer information; (vi) credit card fraud; and (vii) competition and general economic conditions specific to the Internet, e-commerce and the apparel industry. Our inability to effectively address these risks and any other risks that we face in connection with our Internet operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.Covenants contained in agreements governing our senior credit facility and convertible notes restrict the manner in which we conduct our business, under certain circumstances, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, growth prospects and ability to procure merchandise for our stores.Our senior revolving credit facility contains covenants that restrict the manner in which we conduct our business under certain circumstances. Subject to certain exceptions, these covenants restrict or limit our ability to, among other things:•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness;•make certain investments or acquisitions;•merge, consolidate, dissolve or liquidate;•engage in certain asset sales (including the sale of stock);•repurchase stock;•grant liens on assets;•pay dividends; and•close stores.A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreements governing our existing indebtedness, acceleration of any amounts then outstanding, the foreclosure upon collateral securing the debt obligations, or the unavailability of the line of credit.Our convertible notes, which were issued in March 2014, subsequent to fiscal 2013 year end, impose certain restrictive covenants on us which may impede our ability to operate our business or raise further funds in the capital markets. For example, there are restrictions on:•incurring additional indebtedness, with limited exceptions, while the notes are outstanding;15•payment of cash dividends;•granting liens;•making restricted payments; and•payments on other indebtedness, which except for payments under our senior revolving credit facility, are subordinated to all payments under the convertible notes. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreements governing the convertible notes. If there is an event of default, a holder of the notes may require us to redeem all or any portion of the notes (including all accrued and unpaid interest and all interest that would have accrued through the maturity date) in cash, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flow.We may face risks associated with the transition of our senior management, chief executive officer and our new board members. In general, our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of our senior management, particularly our chief executive officer and personnel engaged in merchandising and store operations, and on our ability to identify, hire and retain additional key management personnel. We have had significant changes in senior management in the beginning of 2013, and during 2012 and 2011, and these changes may impact our ability to execute our business strategy. Additionally, we had significant changes in our board of directors in 2012 and recently added three new directors in March 2014.Fluctuations in our revenues for the "back-to-school" season in the third fiscal quarter and the "holiday" season in the fourth fiscal quarter have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We experience seasonal fluctuations in revenues, with a disproportionate amount of our revenues being generated in the third fiscal quarter “back-to-school” season, which begins the last week of July and ends during September, and the fourth fiscal quarter “holiday” season. In addition, any factors that harm our third and fourth fiscal quarter operating results, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year.In order to prepare for our peak shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry at other times of the year. An unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during our peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross profit. Alternatively, an unanticipated increase in demand for certain of our products could leave us unable to fulfill customer demand and result in lost sales and customer dissatisfaction.Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the merchandise mix and the timing and level of inventory markdowns. As a result, historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily indicative of future period-to-period results. Reliance should not be placed on the results of a single fiscal quarter, particularly the third fiscal quarter “back-to-school” season or fourth fiscal quarter “holiday” season, as an indication of our annual results or our future performance.We depend upon a single center for our corporate offices and distribution activities, and any significant disruption in the operation of this center could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.Our corporate offices and the distribution functions for all of our stores and e-commerce business are handled from a single, leased facility in Foothill Ranch, California. In general, this area of California is subject to earthquakes and wildfires. Any significant interruption in the operation of this facility due to a natural disaster, arson, accident, system failure or other unforeseen event could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and, consequently, lead to a decrease in sales. Furthermore, we have little experience operating essential functions away from our main corporate offices and are uncertain what effect operating satellite facilities might have on our business, personnel and results of operations. The financial losses incurred may exceed our insurance for earthquake damages and business interruption costs related to any such disruption. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist stockholders.Over the last few years, proxy contests and other forms of stockholder activism have been directed against numerous public companies in retail businesses, including us. In 2012, we were engaged in a consent solicitation with the Clinton Group, Inc., or CGI, which resulted in our entering into a settlement agreement and appointing four new directors to fill vacancies created by 16director resignations, and led to a significant increase in our operating expenses, which contributed to our net loss in fiscal 2012. Although the consent solicitation was settled, we could become engaged in another consent solicitation, or proxy contest, or experience other stockholder activism, in the future. In the recent past, activist shareholders have advocated for certain governance and strategic changes at our company. If stockholder activism continues or increases, particularly with respect to matters which our Board of Directors, in exercising their fiduciary duties, disagree with or have determined not to pursue, our business could be adversely affected because responding to actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management, and perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, business partners and customers.In addition, if faced with another consent solicitation or proxy contest, we may not be able to respond successfully to the contest or dispute, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, if individuals are elected to our Board with a differing agenda, our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders may be adversely affected. These actions could cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.We face risks related to claims and legal proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.From time to time, we are subject to various claims and legal proceedings, including, without limitation, those arising or allegedly arising out of wage and hour claims, discrimination claims and other claims under labor laws and intellectual property claims. For example, we are currently subject to the legal proceedings described under Part I - Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The claims and legal proceedings to which we are or may become subject could involve large damages or settlements and significant defense costs. We maintain insurance to cover a portion of the losses associated with settlements and adverse judgments, but those losses could exceed the scope of the coverage in effect, or coverage of particular claims or legal proceedings could be unavailable or denied. As a result, certain claims and legal proceedings could arise for which we do not have insurance coverage or insurance provides only partial coverage and which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.Changes in the health care regulatory environment could cause us to incur additional expense and our failure to comply with related legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business.In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the U.S. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage for those already insured. We do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation: however, as additional requirements from the legislation continue to go into effect, we expect to incur an increase in our expenses. If this legislation and future changes in healthcare legislation significantly increase our expenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may suffer negative publicity and our business may be harmed if we need to recall any products we sell.Each of our Wet Seal and Arden B divisions has in the past needed to, and may in the future need to, recall products that we determine may present safety issues. We have also been the subject of negative publicity from a consumer advocacy group that has alleged that several fashion apparel retailers, including Wet Seal, failed to comply with the state of California's Proposition 65 requirements regarding the presence and level of certain potentially toxic substances in their products. If products we sell have safety problems of which we are not aware, or if we or the Consumer Product Safety Commission recall a product sold in our stores, we may suffer negative publicity and, potentially, product liability lawsuits, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows.If we are unable to pass through increases in raw material, labor and energy costs to our customers through price increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our product costs rise from time to time due to increasing commodity prices, primarily for cotton, as well as due to higher production labor and energy costs. We may not be able to, or may elect not to, pass these increases on to our customers through price increases, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.17Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm our business.We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of our Internet or e-commerce services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of e-commerce payment services, unencumbered Internet communications, consumer protection, the provision of e-commerce payment services, unencumbered Internet access to our services, the design and operation of websites and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how certain existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our costs of doing business.If we fail to comply with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, we may be subject to fines or penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are highly dependent on the use of credit and debit cards to complete sale transactions in our stores and through our websites. If we fail to comply with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, we may become subject to fines or limitations on our ability to accept credit and debit cards. Through our sale transactions, loyalty programs and other methods, we may obtain information about our customers which is subject to federal and state privacy laws. These laws and the judicial interpretation of such laws are constantly evolving. If we fail to comply with these laws, we may be subject to fines or penalties, which could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other's intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results.Our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We have registered trademarks for Wet Seal and Arden B (which are registered in the retail store services and other classes). We take actions to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, others may infringe on our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may lose market share to our competitors, the value of our brands could be diminished and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.We are also subject to the risk that claims will be brought against us for infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties, seeking to block the sale of our products as violative of their intellectual property rights or payment of monetary amounts. In particular, we are subject to copyright infringement claims for which we may not be entitled to indemnification from our suppliers. In addition, in recent years, companies in the retail industry, including us, have been subject to patent infringement claims from non-practicing entities, or “patent trolls.” Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. As a result, any such claim, or the combination of multiple claims, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are required to stop using any of our registered or nonregistered trademarks, our sales could decline and, consequently, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.Violation of labor or safety laws and practices by our suppliers could harm our business and results of operations.Our company's policy is to use only those sourcing agents and independent manufacturers who operate in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The violation of laws, particularly labor or safety laws, by an independent manufacturer, or by one of the sourcing agents, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's or sourcing agent's labor or safety practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S. or in the country in which the manufacturing facility is located, and the public revelation of those illegal or unethical practices, could cause significant damage to our company's reputation and could subject us to legal proceedings and/or prohibit us from selling product received from an accused vendor. Although our manufacturer operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control the business and operations of the manufacturers and cannot guarantee their legal and regulatory compliance.We do not authenticate the license rights of our suppliers.We purchase merchandise from a number of vendors who purport to hold manufacturing and distribution rights under the terms of license agreements or that assert that their products are not subject to any restrictions as to distribution. We generally rely upon each vendor's representation concerning those manufacturing and distribution rights and do not independently verify whether each vendor legally holds adequate rights to the licensed properties they are manufacturing or distributing. If we acquire unlicensed 18merchandise or merchandise violating a registered copyright or trademark, we could be obligated to remove it from our stores, incur costs associated with destruction of the merchandise if the vendor is unwilling or unable to reimburse us and be subject to civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.We have recorded asset impairment charges in the past and we may record material asset impairment charges in the future. Quarterly, we assess whether events or changes in circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable. If we determine that the carrying value of long-lived assets is not recoverable, we will be required to record impairment charges relating to those assets. For example, our assessments during fiscal 2013 indicated that operating losses or insufficient operating income existed at certain retail stores, with a projection that the operating losses or insufficient operating income for those locations would continue. As such, we recorded non-cash charges of $14.9 million during fiscal 2013 within asset impairment in the consolidated statements of operations to write down the carrying values of these stores' long-lived assets to their estimated fair values. Our quarterly evaluation of store assets includes consideration of current and historical performance and projections of future profitability. The profitability projections rely upon estimates made by us, including store-level sales, gross margins, and direct expenses, and, by their nature, include judgments about how current strategic initiatives will impact future performance. If we are not able to achieve the projected key financial metrics for any reason, including because any of the strategic initiatives being implemented do not result in significant improvements in our current financial performance trend, this would indicate that the value of our long-lived assets was not recoverable and we would incur additional impairment of assets in the future. In the event we record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal or state income tax purposes is subject to limitations.We believe that our net operating losses (“NOLs”) are a valuable asset and we intend to take actions to protect the value of our NOLs. However, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) contains provisions that may limit the availability of federal net operating loss carryforwards to be used to offset taxable income in any given year upon the occurrence of certain events, including significant changes in our stockholders' ownership interests in our company. Under Section 382, potential limitations on NOLs are triggered when there has been an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in our stock ownership over a three-year period).We incurred ownership changes in April 2005 and December 2006, which resulted in Section 382 limitations applying to NOLs generated prior to those dates, which were approximately $150.6 million. Despite these ownership changes, we may utilize all of our $165.0 million of NOLs as of February 1, 2014, to offset future taxable income. Future transactions involving the sale or other transfer of our stock may result in additional ownership changes for purposes of Section 382. The occurrence of such additional ownership changes could limit our ability to utilize our remaining NOLs and possibly other tax attributes. Limitations imposed on our ability to use NOLs and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income could cause us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we otherwise would if such limitations were not in effect. Any further ownership change also could cause such NOLs and other tax attributes to expire unused, thereby reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs and other tax attributes to us and adversely affecting our future cash flows.In addition, we may determine that varying state laws with respect to NOL utilization may result in lower limits, or an inability to utilize NOLs in some states altogether, which could result in us incurring additional state income taxes. Through a series of legislative actions, the State of California suspended our ability to utilize NOLs to offset taxable income in fiscal 2008 through 2011. As a result, we incurred additional cash state income taxes in California. In the event that state law results in lower limits, or an inability to utilize loss carryforwards, or we become subject to federal alternative minimum tax, this could adversely affect our future cash flows.19Risks Related to our Common StockThe price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated significantly during the past several years and may fluctuate significantly in the future.Our Class A common stock, which is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. The market price of our Class A common stock is likely to fluctuate, both because of actual and perceived changes in our operating results and prospects and because of general volatility in the stock market. The market price of our Class A common stock could continue to fluctuate widely in response to factors such as:•actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations, including comparable store sales;•the addition or loss of suppliers, customers and other business relationships;•changes in financial estimates of, and recommendations by, securities analysts;•conditions or trends in the apparel and consumer products industries;•additions or departures of key personnel;•sales of our Class A common stock;•general market and economic conditions; and•other events or factors, including the realization of any of the risks described in this risk factors section, many of which are beyond our control.Fluctuations in the price and trading volume of our Class A common stock in response to factors such as those set forth above could be unrelated or disproportionate to our actual operating performance.Our stockholders may experience significant dilution. As more fully described in Part II, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources herein, on March 26, 2014, we consummated the sale of $27 million of convertible notes as well as warrants to purchase up to 8.8 million shares of our Class A common stock in a private placement to a single institutional investor. The convertible notes bear interest at a rate of 6% per year, subject to certain adjustments, and mature in March 2017. The convertible notes are convertible, at the holder's option, into shares of our Class A common stock at a price of $1.84 per share, subject to customary adjustments. The convertible notes amortize and monthly interest and principal payments for the convertible notes may be settled in cash or shares of our Class A common stock, at our option, subject to certain conditions. The warrants will be exercisable at $2.12 per share, subject to potential future anti-dilution adjustments. In addition, the warrant exercise price is also subject to a “full ratchet” anti-dilution adjustment, subject to customary exceptions, in the event that we issue or are deemed to have issued securities at a price lower than the then applicable exercise price, subject to a floor on the exercise price of $1.76 per share.Although we have the option to settle the interest and principal payments on the convertible notes in cash and certain conversion and exercise restrictions are placed upon the holders of the convertible notes and warrants, the issuance of the additional shares of Class A common stock would cause our existing stockholders to experience significant dilution in their investment in our company. In addition, if the cash liquidity issues described in these risk factors require us to obtain additional financing involving the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders’ investment would be further diluted. Such dilution could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline, which could impair our ability to raise additional financing. We have never paid dividends on our Class A common stock and do not plan to do so in the future.Holders of shares of our Class A common stock are entitled to receive any dividends that may be declared by our Board of Directors. However, we have not paid any cash dividends on our Class A common stock and we do not expect to for the foreseeable future. Also, our agreements with our senior lenders and convertible note holders limit the payment of dividends to our stockholders.Anti-takeover provisions in our charters documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that might be considered favorable.Our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to designate and issue, without stockholder approval, up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences that could differentially and adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our Class A common stock, which could be used to discourage an unsolicited 20acquisition proposal. Furthermore, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met.Our bylaws contain provisions that establish advance notice requirements for nomination for elections to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.The possible issuance of preferred stock, the application of anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and the bylaw advance notice provisions could each have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest, making the acquisition of a substantial block of Class A common stock more difficult and limiting the price that investors might in the future be willing to pay for shares of our Class A common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.