Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business We may be unable to reverse declines in comparable store sales and net losses from continuing operations, both of which could significantly impact our economic viability. The economic survival of our company is significantly dependent on our ability to reverse declines in comparable store sales and then sustain comparable store sales growth. Our comparable store sales results have declined significantly during the past two years and a substantial portion of these declines have been attributable to our Wet Seal division. These declines in comparable store sales have resulted in a net loss from continuing operations in 2004. Our ability to improve our comparable store sales results depends in large part on a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including improving our forecasting of demand and fashion trends, providing an appropriate mix of appealing merchandise for our targeted customer base, managing inventory effectively, using more effective pricing strategies, selecting effective marketing techniques, optimizing store performance by closing under-performing stores, calendar shifts of holiday periods and general economic conditions. We cannot assure you that we will not experience future declines in comparable store sales and net losses from continuing operations, both of which would significantly impact our ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred operating losses and negative cash flows in the past two years and we may not be able to reverse these losses. We have incurred operating losses and negative cash flows during each of fiscal 2003 and 2004. Although we have received approximately $59.4 million in net proceeds after transaction expenses from the investors in the January 2005 Private Placement and expect to receive approximately $18.0 million (after transaction expenses and retirement of the Bridge Loan Facility) in net proceeds in the April 2005 Private Placement, we will encounter liquidity constraints if our operating losses and negative cash flows continue. In such event, we will be forced to seek alternatives to address these constraints, including seeking additional debt financing or equity financing or a potential reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. In the event we need to seek additional financing, we will need to obtain the prior approval of our lenders and there is no assurance we will receive such approvals on terms acceptable to us. As a result of our operating losses and negative cash flows, we have experienced a tightening of credit extended to us by vendors, factors and others for merchandise and services, which could cause us to experience delays or disruption in merchandise flow. Due to our recent financial results, we have experienced a tightening of credit extended to us by vendors, factors, and others for merchandise and services. The impact of this credit tightening has required us to issue letters of credit outside of the ordinary course of business, or, in many instances, shorten vendor credit terms. If supply difficulties arise due to this credit tightening we could experience delays or disruption in merchandise flow, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our decision to close certain Wet Seal stores may not significantly improve our financial condition or results of operations. On December 28, 2004, we announced that we would close approximately 150 Wet Seal stores as part of our turn-around strategy. We appointed Hilco to manage the inventory liquidations for the stores that we have closed and Hilco Advisors to negotiate with the respective landlords. We completed the store closing effort on March 5, 2005 and through that date we closed a total of 153 stores. Upon the decision to close these stores, we wrote down the carrying value of these impaired assets to realizable value, a non-cash event that negatively 10 impacted our earnings and earnings per share. Further, by closing these stores before the expiration of the applicable lease term, we are required in most instances to make payments to the landlords in the form of cash and/or equity payments to terminate or “buy out” the remaining term of the applicable lease. Although Hilco is in negotiations with the landlords on our behalf, we cannot assure you that we will be able to reach an agreement with all the landlords on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, although these stores have been underperforming as compared with our other Wet Seal stores, there is no assurance that in the long term these store closures will have a significant positive impact upon our operating results or that we will not have to close additional stores in the future. Furthermore, if we are not successful in reducing our non-store expenses, including our general and administrative overhead, in line with our reduced store count and projected revenues, it is unlikely that we would achieve significant profitability even if our net sales revenue increases. Covenants contained in agreements governing our existing indebtedness restrict the manner in which we conduct our business and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, growth prospects and ability to procure merchandise for our stores. Our senior credit facility, Bridge Loan Facility and the indenture governing our Notes contain covenants that restrict the manner in which we conduct our business. Subject to certain exceptions, these covenants restrict, among other things, our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness; • make investments or acquisitions; • merge, consolidate, dissolve or liquidate; • engage in certain asset sales (including the sale of stock); • grant liens or assets; • pay dividends; and • close stores. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreements governing our existing indebtedness, acceleration of any amounts then outstanding, the foreclosure upon collateral securing the debt obligations, or the unavailability of the lines of credit. As a result, our ability to continue as a going concern would be significantly impacted and may require our company to file for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. We may not have sufficient funds to make required payments on the Notes. Although we anticipate receiving approximately $18.0 million in net proceeds after transaction expenses and the retirement of the Bridge Loan Facility from the April 2005 Private Placement, we may not have sufficient funds to make the interest and principal payments on the Notes when due, either at maturity or upon the occurrence of certain events. If we do not have sufficient funds to make these payments, we will have to obtain an alternative source of funds, including sales of our assets or assets of our subsidiaries or sales of our equity securities or capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to meet our payment obligations on the Notes through any of these alternatives or that we will be permitted by our senior lenders to obtain funds through any of these alternatives. In the event that we are not able to make the required payments at maturity or otherwise, we will be forced to seek alternatives, including seeking additional debt financing or equity financing or a potential reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. 11 Our company is a defendant in a class action and the subject of an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. As previously reported, our company, certain of our former directors, and former and current officers, have been named as defendants in several securities class actions. These actions have now been consolidated in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. On or about February 1, 2005, the District Court appointed lead plaintiffs in the consolidated action, filed their Consolidated Class Action Complaint for Violation of the Federal Securities Laws, entitled “Laborer’s International Union of North America Local Union and District Counsel Fund, Laborer’s National (Industrial) Pension Fund, et. al, plaintiffs, v. Wet Seal Inc., Irving Teitelbaum, Peter D. Whitford, Douglas C. Felderman, Walter Parks, Joseph E. Deckop, Allan Haims, Stephen Gross, and La Senza Corporation, defendants.” The consolidated complaint alleges violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act by, among other allegations, making false and misleading statements concerning the progress of our company to stem the losses of our Wet Seal division and return that business to profitability as well as the illegal use of material non-public information by former directors and a company controlled by them. The plaintiff seeks class certification, compensatory damages, interest, costs and attorney’s fees and expenses. We intend to make a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint but there is no assurance it will be successful. If significant damages are assessed against our company it may, in the future, have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our company and the results of operations. In February, we announced that the Pacific Regional Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) had commenced an informal, non-public inquiry regarding our Company. We indicated that the SEC’s inquiry generally related to the events and announcements regarding our Company’s 2004 second quarter earnings and the sale of our Class A common stock by La Senza Corporation and its affiliates during 2004. The SEC has advised us that on April 19, 2005 it issued a formal order of investigation in connection with its review of matters relating to the company. Consistent with the previous announcement, the Company intends to cooperate fully with the SEC’s inquiry. It is too soon to determine whether the outcome of this inquiry will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have had significant management changes recently and these changes may impact our ability to execute our turn-around strategy in the near term. In general, our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of our senior management, particularly personnel engaged in merchandising and store operations, and on our ability to identify, hire and retain additional key management personnel. In November 2004, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the President of our Wet Seal division resigned from our company. In addition, as part of our turn-around strategy, all of the members of our board of directors, other than Henry D. Winterstern and Alan Siegel, have either resigned or retired. In December 2004 and January 2005, we appointed a new President and Chief Executive Officer and four members to our board of directors. We anticipate that we will experience a transition period before this new management team is fully integrated with our company, which could impact our ability to confront the financial challenges that impact our company. In addition, there is a risk that we may lose additional members of our senior management team. If so, due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the retail apparel industry, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, hire or retain the key personnel with the merchandising and management skills necessary to implement our turn-around strategy and offer appealing products to our target market. 12 We need to employ personnel with the requisite merchandising skills to continue our merchandising strategy implemented by Mr. Gold. Michael Gold has been responsible for developing and implementing the new merchandising strategy for our Wet Seal division. Mr. Gold and our company have not yet entered into a formal agreement to compensate Mr. Gold for these efforts. If we reach an agreement, we intend to provide him with a significant incentive based compensation package which may take the form of restricted stock grants, warrants or options in order to compensate him for his efforts to date and in the near term future. Mr. Gold’s commitment to our company has been and will continue to be part-time. We, therefore, are actively seeking personnel with sufficient merchandising skills to continue the merchandising strategy implemented by Mr. Gold. In the event we are unable to reach an agreement with Mr. Gold and he elects not to continue his relationship with our company, the results of our operations may be significantly and adversely impacted. In addition, if we are unable to identify and retain personnel with outstanding merchandising skills to replace Mr. Gold, our comparable store sales and sales revenue could decline. The shares to be issued under our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan will result in a substantial dilution of our earnings per share. We recently established our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan to attract and retain directors, officers, employees and consultants. We have reserved 10.0 million shares of our Class A common stock for issuance under this incentive plan. As of April 27, 2005, 4.8 million shares of restricted Class A common stock had been granted to Joel N. Waller, our Chief Executive Officer, our Executive Vice President of Wet Seal and our non-employee directors. In the near term we anticipate granting additional restricted shares in connection with the hiring or appointment of individuals, as well as company management who will assist us in returning our company to profitability, including Mr. Gold. As a result of the granting of restricted shares, we will incur non-cash compensation expense charges to our earnings over the vesting periods or when the restrictions lapse. As a result, the shares to be issued under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan will have a significant adverse effect on our results of operation and on our earnings per share. Our issuance of the Notes and Warrants, the incurrence of obligations under the Bridge Loan Facility, and the proposed issuance of the Preferred Stock and New Warrants will have a significant adverse effect on our earnings and earnings per share. As a result of our issuance of the Notes and related Warrants and the proposed issuance of the Preferred Stock and New Warrants and in accordance with accounting guidelines noted in Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 98-5, “Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios” and EITF 00-27 “Application of EITF Issue No. 98-5, Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios, to Certain Convertible Instruments” and Accounting Principles Board No. 14 “Accounting for Convertible Debt issued with stock Purchase Warrants”, we determined the fair market value of the Warrants issued as well as the value of the beneficial conversion feature. The value assigned to the Warrants and the beneficial conversion feature reduced the face value of the Notes resulting in a discount that will be amortized over the life of the Notes. The amortization of the discount will result in significant non-cash charges and will have an adverse effect on our earnings and earnings per share. The Notes accrue interest at an annual rate of 3.76%, while the loans made under the Bridge Loan Facility accrue interest at an annual rate of 25.0% through July 31, 2005 and 30.0% thereafter. Since February 1, 2005, we have been required to pay supplemental interest on the outstanding principal amount (including capitalized interest). The monthly supplemental interest rate was 1.45% for February 2005, 0.70% for March 2005 and 1.5% thereafter. If the Bridge Loan Facility and the Notes remain outstanding for all of fiscal 2005, interest expense, whether capitalized or paid, will have a significant impact on our financial results. 13 Prior to the conversion of the Notes and the Preferred Stock (if issued) and the exercise of the Warrants and the New Warrants (if issued), the shares of Class A common stock underlying these securities would not be included in the calculation of basic or fully diluted per share results in the event of a net loss. Conversely, these securities would be included in the determination of fully diluted per share results in the event the Company has net income. Although the holders of these securities may not convert or exercise the respective securities if they would own (together with any affiliates) more than 9.99% of our Class A common stock, upon such conversion and/or exercise, as applicable, our earnings per share would be expected to decrease, or our net loss per share to decrease, as a result of the inclusion of the underlying shares of Class A common stock in our per share calculations. Our internal controls have material weaknesses. We have received an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting because of material weaknesses identified in management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such controls. These material weaknesses, if not remediated, create increased risk of misstatement of our financial results which, if material, may require restatement thereof. If we are unable to anticipate and react to new fashion trends and/or if there is a decrease in the demand for fashionable, casual apparel, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our brand image is dependent upon our ability to anticipate, identify and provide fresh inventory reflecting current fashion trends. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately or in a timely manner to these fashion trends, we could experience reduced consumer acceptance of our products, a diminished brand image and higher markdowns. These factors could result in lower selling prices and sales volumes for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. This risk is particularly acute because we rely on a limited demographic customer base for a large percentage of our sales. Our sales also depend upon the continued demand by our customers for fashionable, casual apparel. Demand for our merchandise could be negatively affected by shifts in consumer discretionary spending to other goods, such as electronic equipment, computers and music. If the demand for apparel and related merchandise were to decline, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected by any resulting decline in sales. Our failure to effectively compete with other retailers for sales and locations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The women’s retail apparel industry is highly competitive, with fashion, quality, price, location, in-store environment and service being the principal competitive factors. We compete for sales with specialty apparel retailers, department stores and certain other apparel retailers, such as American Eagle, Banana Republic, BCBG, bebe, Charlotte Russe, Express, Forever 21, Gap, H&M, Old Navy, Pacific Sunwear and Urban Outfitters. We face a variety of competitive challenges, including: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in a narrowly-defined market segment; • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers in our target demographic; • efficiently sourcing merchandise; and • competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value. 14 In addition to the competitive challenges specified above, many of our competitors are large national chains, which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and which may be better able to adapt to changing conditions that affect the competitive market. Also, our industry has low barriers to entry that allows the introduction of new products or new competitors at a faster pace. Any of these factors could result in reductions in sales or the prices of our products which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, although we believe that we compete effectively for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls and other locations, competition for prime locations and lease terms within shopping malls, in particular, and at other locations is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new locations or maintain our existing locations on terms favorable to us, if at all. Historically we have grown through opening new stores; however, due to our financial condition we do not anticipate opening a significant number of additional stores in the immediate future which could adversely affect the growth of our business. Our company has historically expanded by opening new stores, remodeling existing stores and acquiring other store locations or businesses that complement and enhance our operations. From time to time we have created new retail concepts such as Arden B. However, as result of our financial condition we may not be able to take advantage of certain business opportunities in the same manner as we have historically. While a conservative approach to opening new stores may assist our efforts in the return to profitability, it may have a negative impact upon our growth within certain markets or require us to expend more capital to gain entry in the future. Because of the importance of our brand names, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We have registered trademarks for Wet Seal and Arden B. (which are registered in the retail store services class and pending in others). We take actions to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that others will not imitate our products or infringe on our intellectual property rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not resist or seek to block the sale of our products as violative of their intellectual property rights. If we are required to stop using any of our registered or non-registered marks, our sales could decline and, consequently, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is affected by local, regional and national economic conditions. Our business is sensitive to consumer spending patterns and preferences. Various economic conditions affect the level of spending on the merchandise we offer, including general business conditions, interest rates, taxation, and the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Our growth, sales and profitability may be adversely affected by unfavorable occurrences in these economic conditions on a local, regional or national level. We are especially affected by economic conditions in California, where approximately 13% of our stores are located. Further, the majority of our stores are located in regional shopping malls. We derive sales, in part, from the high volume of traffic in these malls. The inability of mall “anchor” tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic around our stores, or the decline in popularity of malls as shopping destinations would reduce our sales volume and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Our business is seasonal in nature, and any decrease in our sales or margins during these periods could have a material adverse effect on our company. The retail apparel industry is highly seasonal. We generate our highest levels of sales during the Christmas season, which begins the week of Thanksgiving and ends the first Saturday after Christmas, and the “back-to-school” season, which begins the last week of July and ends the first week of September. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on the sales generated during these peak periods. Any decrease in sales or margins during these periods, whether as a result of economic conditions, poor weather or other factors beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our company. We depend upon key vendors to supply us with merchandise for our stores, and the failure of these vendors to provide this merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on our ability to purchase current season apparel in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. The inability or failure of our key vendors to supply us with adequate quantities of desired merchandise, the loss of one or more key vendors or a material change in our current purchase terms could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by causing us to experience excess inventories and higher markdowns. We have no long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us in the future, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon a single distribution facility, and any significant disruption in the operation of this facility could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The distribution functions for all of our stores are handled from a single, leased facility in Foothill Ranch, California. Any significant interruption in the operation of this facility due to a natural disaster, accident, system failure or other unforeseen event could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and, consequently, lead to a decrease in sales. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We do not authenticate the license rights of our suppliers. We purchase merchandise from a number of vendors who hold manufacturing and distribution rights under the terms of license agreements. We generally rely upon each vendor’s representation concerning those manufacturing and distribution rights and do not independently verify whether each vendor legally holds adequate rights to the licensed properties they are manufacturing or distributing. If we acquire unlicensed merchandise, we could be obligated to remove it from our stores, incur costs associated with destruction of the merchandise if the vendor is unwilling or unable to reimburse us and be subject to civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We experience business risks as a result of our Internet business. We compete with Internet businesses that handle similar lines of merchandise. These competitors have certain advantages, including the inapplicability of sales tax and the absence of retail real estate and related costs. As a result, increased Internet sales by our competitors could result in increased price competition and decreased margins. Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • reliance on third-party computer and hardware providers; • diversion of sales from our retail stores; and • online security breaches and/or credit card fraud. 16 Our inability to effectively address these risks and any other risks that we face in connection with our Internet business could adversely affect the profitability of our Internet business. We are subject to risks associated with our procurement of products from non-U.S. based vendors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our products is manufactured outside the United States. As a result, we are susceptible to greater losses as a result of a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These factors include: • import or trade restrictions (including increased tariffs, customs duties, taxes or quotas) imposed by the United States government in respect of the foreign countries in which our products are currently manufactured or any of the countries in which our products may be manufactured in the future; • political instability or acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies and/or restrictions on the transfer of funds between the United States and foreign jurisdictions, any of which could adversely affect our merchandise flow and, consequently, cause our sales to decline; and • local business practices that do not conform to our legal or ethical guidelines. Our imports are limited by textile agreements between the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions, including Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and South Korea. These agreements impose quotas on the amounts and types of merchandise that may be imported into the United States from these countries. These agreements also allow the United States to limit the importation of categories of merchandise that are not now subject to specified limits. The United States and the countries in which our products are produced or sold may also, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. In addition, none of our international suppliers or international manufacturers supplies or manufactures our products exclusively. As a result, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers and import quota capacity. If we were unable to obtain our raw materials and finished apparel from the countries where we wish to purchase them, either because room or space under the necessary quotas was unavailable or for any other reason, or if the cost of doing so should increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Increases in Federal and state statutory minimum wages could increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Connecticut, Illinois, Oregon, District of Columbia, New York, and Washington have each increased their state minimum wages to a level that significantly exceeded the Federal minimum wage as of January 1, 2005. As of April 27, 2005, we operated 57 stores in those states. These recent increases in the state statutory minimum wage and any future Federal or state minimum wage increases could raise minimum wages above the current wages of some of our employees. As a result, competitive factors could require us to make corresponding increases in our employees’ wages. Increases in our wage rates increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Violation of labor laws and practices by our suppliers could harm our business and results of operations. As part of our commitment to human rights, we require our domestic and foreign suppliers to abide by a Code of Conduct for Vendors and Suppliers, which sets forth guidelines for acceptable factory policies and procedures regarding workplace conditions, including wages and benefits, health and safety, working hours, working age, environmental conditions and ethical and legal matters. If one of our suppliers fails to comply with this Code, we may be required to discontinue our relationship with that supplier, which could result in a shortfall in our inventory levels. Further, if the supplier’s non-compliance were publicly disclosed, our customers may refuse to purchase our products. Either of these events could harm our business and results of operations. 17 Our involvement in lawsuits, both now and in the future, could negatively impact our business. We are currently a defendant in a number of lawsuits, including a class action lawsuit, and we have been involved in a variety of other legal proceedings in the past. Although we intend to vigorously defend the claims against us, if any of the claims in these lawsuits or any future lawsuit are resolved unfavorably to us, we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages or pursue alternative business strategies. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our defense of these actions has resulted, and may continue to result, in substantial costs to us as well as require the significant dedication of management resources. If we choose to settle any of these lawsuits, the settlement costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash resources and financial condition. Risks Related to our Class A Common Stock Our stockholders may experience significant dilution. On June 29, 2004, as part of its private placement of equity securities to institutional and other accredited investors, we issued warrants to acquire 2.1 million additional shares of Class A common stock. On January 14, 2005, we issued Notes which are convertible initially into 37.3 million shares of Class A common stock and Warrants which are exercisable initially for 14.9 million shares of Class A common stock. In each case, the conversion and exercise prices have full ratchet anti-dilution protection, which means the conversion or exercise price, as the case may be, will be adjusted from time to time in the event of the issuance of shares of Class A common stock or of securities convertible or exercisable into shares of our Class A common stock, at prices below the applicable conversion or exercise price. In addition, upon the closing of the April Private Placement, we will issue Preferred Stock which will be initially convertible into 8.2 million shares of our Class A common stock and New Warrants which will be initially exercisable into 7.5 million shares of our Class A common stock. The Preferred Stock will have customary weighted-average anti-dilution protection for future stock issuances below the applicable per share conversion price and the New Warrants will have customary anti-dilution protection for stock splits and similar corporate events. Although certain conversion and exercise restrictions are placed upon the holders of the Notes, the Warrants, the Preferred Stock and the New Warrants, the issuance of the additional shares of Class A common stock will cause our existing stockholders to experience significant dilution in their investment in our company. In addition, if the cash liquidity issues described in these risk factors require us to obtain additional financing involving the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders’ investment would be further diluted. Such dilution could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline, which could impair our ability to raise additional financing. Our Class A common stock could be subject to short selling and other hedging techniques and, if this occurs, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. Our company’s Class A common stock could be subject to a number of hedging transactions including the practice of short selling. Short selling, or “shorting,” occurs when stock is sold which is not owned directly by the seller; instead, the stock is “loaned” for the sale by a broker-dealer to someone who “shorts” the stock. In most situations, this is a short-term strategy by a seller, and based upon volume, may at times drive stock values down. Based upon a review of the current stock ownership filings with the SEC made by our stockholders, we have identified several investment firms that own equity interests in our company. These firms may actively engage in hedging transactions, including the short selling of our Class A common stock. Moreover, a significant percentage of the convertible securities issued in our recent private placement transactions are held by investment firms who may engage such transactions. Any such hedging activities could reduce the value of our current stockholders’ equity interests in our company at and after the time the hedging transactions have occurred. 18 We have never paid dividends on our Class A common stock and do not plan to do so in the future. Holders of shares of our Class A common stock are entitled to receive any dividends that may be declared by our board of directors. However, we have not paid any cash dividends on our Class A common stock and we do not expect to do so in the future. Also, our agreements with our senior lenders and the indenture governing the Notes prohibit us from paying dividends to our stockholders. We intend to retain any future earnings to provide funds for operations of our business. Investors who anticipate the need for dividends from investments should not purchase our Class A common stock. Our charter provisions, rights plan and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws authorize our board of directors to designate and issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences that could differentially and adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock, which could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. In addition, under certain circumstances our board of directors may grant rights to our stockholders under our rights plan. Furthermore, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. The possible issuance of preferred stock, the rights granted to stockholders under our rights plan and Delaware law could each have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest, making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock and limiting the price that investors might in the future be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. 