Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business General economic conditions, perceptions of such conditions by our customers and the impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending have adversely impacted our results of operations and may continue to do so. Our performance is subject to general economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer confidence and consumer spending, and we believe the decline in comparable store sales in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009 was due at least in part to continued difficult economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. As a result of the continued difficult economic conditions, we may face risks that will impact many facets of our operations, including, among other things, the ability of one or more of our vendors to deliver their merchandise in a timely manner or otherwise meet their obligations to us. If the conditions in the U.S. and world economic markets remain uncertain or continue to be volatile, or if they deteriorate further, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be unable to reverse declines in comparable store sales in our Wet Seal division. Our comparable store sales results in our Wet Seal division have declined in each of the past two years, and we cannot assure you that comparable store sales will not continue to decline in the future. In order to improve comparable store sales results, we will need to focus on a variety of factors, including fashion trends, our merchandise mix, holiday periods, actions of competitors, weather conditions and general economic conditions. Improving comparable store sale results has been further challenged following the resignation of Ms. Maria Comfort, our former president and chief merchandise officer of the Wet Seal division, in November 2009. We have a search underway to find a replacement for Ms. Comfort, but competition for qualified employees is intense and we may have difficulty attracting individuals to serve in the role of senior management of the Wet Seal division. In addition, our search may divert the attention of senior management from the business and operations of our company. Once we identify and attract a suitable replacement for Ms. Comfort, we anticipate that we will experience a transition period before the successor is fully integrated into the Wet Seal division. Our improvements in comparable store sales and operating results of our Arden B division in fiscal 2009 may not be indicative of our future performance trends, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain such rate of improvement. Previously, we experienced poor financial performance in our Arden B division. Following efforts by our Board of Directors and our senior management team, including the hiring of Sharon Hughes as president and chief merchandise officer, the closing or rebranding of underperforming stores, and changes to promotional and pricing strategies, comparable store sales and operating results of our Arden B division have improved. However, there can be no guarantee that this improvement of our Arden B division will continue. 11 Table of Contents Our company’s ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping centers in which many of our stores are located. Substantially all of our stores are located in shopping centers. Factors beyond our control impact shopping center traffic, such as general economic conditions and consumer spending levels. Accordingly, consumer spending and reduced shopping center traffic remain depressed due to the continued difficult economic conditions. As a result, mall operators have been facing increasing operational and financial difficulties. The increasing inability of mall “anchor” tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic around our stores, the increasing inability of mall operators to attract “anchor” tenants and maintain viable operations and the increasing departures of existing “anchor” and other mall tenants due to declines in the sales volume and in the popularity of malls as shopping destinations, have reduced and will continue to reduce our sales volume and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Our ability to procure merchandise could be adversely affected by changes in our vendors’ factoring arrangements. Changes in our vendors’ factoring arrangements may threaten the factors’ financial viability and ability to provide factoring services to its customers. Although we do not have a direct relationship with factors, a portion of our vendors who supply our company with merchandise have direct factoring arrangements. Vendors who engage in factoring transactions will typically sell their accounts receivable to a factor at a discount in exchange for cash payments, which can be used to finance the business and operations of the vendors. If the financial condition of our vendors’ factors were to deteriorate and certain of our vendors were unable to procure alternative factoring arrangements from competitors of their factor on the same or substantially similar terms, our ability to timely procure merchandise for our stores could be adversely affected. This could require the devotion of significant time and attention by our management to adequately resolve such matters. In turn, our results of operation and financial condition could suffer. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitation. In general, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, or Section 382, contains provisions that may limit the availability of federal net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, to be used to offset taxable income in any given year upon the occurrence of certain events, including significant changes in ownership interests. Under Section 382, potential limitations on NOLs are triggered when there has been an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in our stock ownership over a three-year period). Our ownership changes in April 2005 and December 2006 resulted in Section 382 limitations applying to NOLs generated prior to those dates, which were approximately $172.1 million. As a result of these ownership changes, of our $116.6 million NOLs as of January 30, 2010, we may utilize up to $62.4 million of our NOLs to offset taxable income in fiscal 2010. Future transactions involving the sale or other transfer of our stock may result in additional ownership changes for purposes of Section 382. The occurrence of such additional ownership changes could limit our ability to utilize our remaining NOLs and possibly other tax attributes. Limitations imposed on our ability to use NOLs and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income could cause us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we otherwise would if such limitations were not in effect. Any further ownership change also could cause such NOLs and other tax attributes to expire unused, thereby reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs and other tax attributes to us and adversely affecting our future cash flows. If we are unable to anticipate and react to new fashion trends, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on a limited demographic customer base for a large percentage of our sales. Our brand image is dependent upon our ability to anticipate, identify and provide fresh inventory reflecting current fashion trends. 12 Table of Contents Furthermore, the continued difficult economic conditions make it increasingly difficult for us to accurately predict product demand trends. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately or in a timely manner to these fashion trends, we could experience reduced consumer acceptance of our products, a diminished brand image and higher markdowns. These factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we decrease the price that we charge for our products or offer extensive, continued promotions on our products, we may earn lower gross margins and our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. The prices that we are able to charge for our products depend on the type of product offered, the consumer and retailer response to the product and the prices charged by our competitors. To the extent that we are forced to lower our prices, our gross margins will be lower and our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. We depend upon a single center for our corporate offices and distribution activities, and any significant disruption in the operation of this center could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Our corporate offices and the distribution functions for all of our stores and Internet business are handled from a single, leased facility in Foothill Ranch, California. In general, this area of California is subject to earthquakes and wildfires. Any significant interruption in the operation of this facility due to a natural disaster, arson, accident, system failure or other unforeseen event could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and, consequently, lead to a decrease in sales. The financial losses incurred may exceed our insurance for earthquake damages and business interruption costs related to any such disruption. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we have little experience operating essential functions away from our main corporate offices and are uncertain what effect operating satellite facilities might have on our business, personnel and results of operations. Fluctuations in our results of operations for the third fiscal quarter and the fourth fiscal quarter have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. We experience seasonal fluctuations in revenues and operating income, with a disproportionate amount of our revenues and a majority of our income being generated in the third fiscal quarter “back-to-school” season, which begins the last week of July and ends during September, and the fourth fiscal quarter “holiday” season. Our revenues and income are generally lower during the first and second fiscal quarters. In addition, any factors that harm our third and fourth fiscal quarter operating results, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. In order to prepare for our peak shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry at other times of the year. An unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during our peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross profit. Alternatively, an unanticipated increase in demand for certain of our products could leave us unable to fulfill customer demand and result in lost sales and customer dissatisfaction. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the merchandise mix and the timing and level of inventory markdowns. As a result, historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily indicative of future period-to-period results. You should not rely on the results of a single fiscal quarter, particularly the third fiscal quarter “back-to-school” season or fourth fiscal quarter “holiday” season, as an indication of our annual results or our future performance. 13 Table of Contents Our failure to effectively compete with other retailers for sales and locations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. The women’s retail apparel industry is highly competitive, with fashion, quality, price, location and service being the principal competitive factors. Our Wet Seal and Arden B stores compete with specialty apparel retailers, department stores and certain other apparel retailers, including Aeropostale, Anthropologie, Abercrombie & Fitch, Charlotte Russe, Gap, Banana Republic, H&M, Old Navy, Pacific Sunwear, American Eagle, Target, Urban Outfitters, Forever 21, Express, J.C. Penney, Nordstrom, bebe, Zara, Guess?, BCBG, Rue 21, and other regional retailers. Many of our competitors are large national chains that have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. We face a variety of competitive challenges, including: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in narrowly-defined market segments; • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers in our target markets and maintaining a sufficient quantity of these items for which there is the greatest demand; • obtaining favorable site locations within malls on reasonable terms; • sourcing merchandise efficiently; • pricing our products competitively and achieving customer perception of value; • offering attractive promotional incentives while maintaining profit margins; and • withstanding periodic downturns in the apparel industry. Our industry has low barriers to entry that allow the introduction of new products or new competitors at a fast pace. Any of these factors could result in reductions in sales or the prices of our products which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Furthermore, competition for prime locations and lease terms within shopping malls, in particular, is intense, and we may not be able to obtain new locations or maintain our existing locations on terms favorable to us. We expect to open 25 to 40 Wet Seal stores, net of closures, in fiscal 2010. At this time, we do not expect to open a significant number of Arden B stores in fiscal 2010, aside for replacing closures, but may possibly decide to begin growing the Arden B store base starting late fiscal 2010. While we believe we compete effectively for favorable site locations and lease terms, competition for prime locations within malls, in particular, and within other locations is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new locations on terms favorable to us, if at all. In addition, actions of our competitors, particularly increased promotional activity, can negatively impact our business. In light of the continued difficult economic conditions, pricing is a significant driver of consumer choice in our industry and we regularly engage in price competition, particularly through our promotional programs. To the extent that our competitors lower prices, through increased promotional activity or otherwise, our ability to maintain gross profit margins and sales levels may be negatively impacted. There can be no assurance that our competitors’ increased promotional activity will not negatively impact our business The upcoming expiration of leases for approximately 38 of our existing stores could lead to increased costs associated with renegotiating our leases and/or relocating our stores. We have approximately 38 existing store leases scheduled to expire in fiscal 2010. In connection with the expiration of these leases, we will have to renegotiate new leases, which could result in higher rental amounts for each store and landlord requirements to remodel existing locations as a condition for renewal. We may not be 14 Table of Contents able to obtain new terms that are favorable to us. In addition, as a result of renewal negotiations, we may be required by the landlord to remodel, which could result in significant capital expenditures. In addition, some landlords may refuse to renew our leases due to our lower sales per square foot as compared with other prospective tenants. If we are unable to agree to new terms with our landlords, we will have to close or relocate these stores, which could result in a significant expenditure and could lead to an interruption in the operation of our business at the affected stores, and we could be required to relocate to less desirable locations or may not be able to find viable locations at all. Because of the importance of our brand names, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We have registered trademarks for Wet Seal and Arden B (which are registered in the retail store services and other classes). We take actions to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, others may infringe on our intellectual property rights or seek to block the sale of our products as violative of their intellectual property rights. If we are required to stop using any of our registered or nonregistered trademarks, our sales could decline and, consequently, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Covenants contained in agreements governing our senior credit facility restrict the manner in which we conduct our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, growth prospects and ability to procure merchandise for our stores. Our senior revolving credit facility contains covenants that restrict the manner in which we conduct our business. Subject to certain exceptions, these covenants restrict or limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • merge, consolidate, dissolve or liquidate; • engage in certain asset sales (including the sale of stock); • repurchase stock; • grant liens on assets; • pay dividends; and • close stores. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreements governing our existing indebtedness, acceleration of any amounts then outstanding, the foreclosure upon collateral securing the debt obligations, or the unavailability of the lines of credit. While as of the date of this Annual Report there are not any secured convertible notes outstanding, we have not completed the satisfaction and discharge of our obligations under the indenture governing such notes. We anticipate completing the satisfaction and discharge process promptly. We do not authenticate the license rights of our suppliers. We purchase merchandise from a number of vendors who purport to hold manufacturing and distribution rights under the terms of license agreements or that assert that their products are not subject to any restrictions as to distribution. We generally rely upon each vendor’s representation concerning those manufacturing and distribution rights and do not independently verify whether each vendor legally holds adequate rights to the licensed properties they are manufacturing or distributing. If we acquire unlicensed merchandise or merchandise violating a registered trademark, we could be obligated to remove it from our stores, incur costs associated with 15 Table of Contents destruction of the merchandise if the vendor is unwilling or unable to reimburse us and be subject to civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. We are subject to risks associated with our procurement of products from non-U.S. based vendors and U.S. vendors that purchase products internationally, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. A portion of our products is manufactured outside the U.S. As a result, we are susceptible to greater losses as a result of a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. These factors include: • import or trade restrictions (including increased tariffs, customs duties, taxes or quotas) imposed by the U.S. government in respect of the foreign countries in which our products are currently manufactured or any of the countries in which our products may be manufactured in the future; • political instability or acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds between the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, and/or potential disruption of imports due to labor disputes at U.S. ports, any of which could adversely affect our merchandise flow and, consequently, cause our sales to decline; and • local business practices that do not conform to our legal or ethical guidelines. The U.S. and the countries in which our products are produced or sold may also, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. In addition, none of our international suppliers or international manufacturers supplies or manufactures our products exclusively. As a result, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers and import quota capacity. If we were unable to obtain our raw materials and finished apparel from the countries where we wish to purchase them, either because room under the necessary quotas was unavailable or for any other reason, or if the cost of doing so should increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Violation of labor laws and practices by our suppliers could harm our business and results of operations. Our company’s policy is to use only those sourcing agents and independent manufacturers who operate in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The violation of laws, particularly labor laws, by an independent manufacturer, or by one of the sourcing agents, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or sourcing agent’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S. or in the country in which the manufacturing facility is located, and the public revelation of those illegal or unethical practices, could cause significant damage to our company’s reputation. Although our manufacturer operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control the business and operations of the manufacturers and cannot guarantee their legal and regulatory compliance. We are exposed to business risks as a result of our Internet operations. We operate online stores at www.wetseal.com and www.ardenb.com. Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third-party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems. Specific risks include: (i) diversion of sales from our stores; (ii) rapid technological change; (iii) liability for online content; and (iv) risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. In addition, Internet operations involve risks which are beyond our control that could have a direct material adverse 16 Table of Contents effect on our operational results, including: (i) price competition involving the items we intend to sell; (ii) the entry of our vendors into the Internet business in direct competition with us; (iii) the level of merchandise returns experienced by us; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) online security breaches involving unauthorized access to our and/or customer information; (vi) credit card fraud; and (vii) competition and general economic conditions specific to the Internet, online commerce and the apparel industry. Our inability to effectively address these risks and any other risks that we face in connection with our Internet operations could adversely affect the profitability of our Internet operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stockholders may experience dilution due to conversions and exercises of outstanding convertible securities and/or the antidilution protection of the securities. As of January 30, 2010, we have issued 64,484,279 shares of our Class A common stock in connection with prior private placements of Class A common stock and warrants, convertible notes, and shares of preferred stock that are convertible into or exercisable for shares of Class A common stock. An additional 9,740,230 shares of Class A common stock may be issued under the convertible notes, preferred stock, and warrants that remained outstanding as of January 30, 2010, and this number of shares of Class A common stock is subject to antidilution adjustments based upon the antidilution provisions contained in these instruments. The issuance of the additional shares of Class A common stock upon conversion and exercise could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. In March 2010, we completed a series of exercises and conversions of Series E warrants, convertible notes and shares of preferred stock that resulted in the issuance of 4,273,111 shares of our Class A common stock. The Company also repurchased an insignificant remaining convertible note balance from another holder of the convertible notes. As a result of the conversions and repurchase, there are no longer any remaining convertible notes and preferred stock outstanding. The price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated significantly during the past few years and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Our Class A common stock, which is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. The market price of our Class A common stock is likely to fluctuate, both because of actual and perceived changes in our operating results and prospects and because of general volatility in the stock market. The market price of our Class A common stock could continue to fluctuate widely in response to factors such as: • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations, including comparable store sales; • the addition or loss of suppliers, customers and other business relationships; • changes in financial estimates of, and recommendations by, securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the apparel and consumer products industries; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of our Class A common stock; • general market and economic conditions; and • other events or factors, including the realization of any of the risks described in this risk factors section, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in the price and trading volume of our Class A common stock in response to factors such as those set forth above could be unrelated or disproportionate to our actual operating performance. We have never paid dividends on our Class A common stock and do not plan to do so in the future. Holders of shares of our Class A common stock are entitled to receive any dividends that may be declared by our Board of Directors. However, we have not paid any cash dividends on our Class A common stock and we do not expect to for the foreseeable future. Also, our agreements with our senior lenders restrict the payment of dividends to our stockholders. 17 Table of Contents Our charter provisions and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects. Our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to designate and issue, without stockholder approval, up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences that could differentially and adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our Class A common stock, which could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. Furthermore, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. The possible issuance of preferred stock and the application of anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could each have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest, making the acquisition of a substantial block of Class A common stock more difficult and limiting the price that investors might in the future be willing to pay for shares of our Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 