Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business Our improvements in comparable store sales and operating results in fiscal 2005 and 2006 may not be indicative of trends in our future performance, and we may not be able to sustain or improve our results and achieve profitability. During fiscal 2005 and 2006, we experienced seven out of eight consecutive quarters of positive comparable store sales growth, and positive overall cash flow from operations in each of fiscal 2005 and 2006. However, we incurred significant operating losses and negative cash flows during each of fiscal 2003 and 2004 which caused liquidity problems and resulted in very tight vendor payment terms. In fiscal 2005, we raised additional capital that ameliorated our liquidity problems. Our ability to maintain the success of our Wet Seal and Arden B stores depends in large part on a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including accurate forecasting of demand and fashion trends, providing an appropriate mix of appealing merchandise for our targeted customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, selecting effective marketing techniques, optimizing store performance, negotiating acceptable renewals of expiring leases and general economic conditions. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we experienced an inventory shortage in certain fashion tops and dresses in our Wet Seal division that negatively affected our comparable store sales performance. We cannot be certain that we will be able to execute our plan to open additional stores or that such store openings will be successful. Successful implementation of our company’s growth strategy depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, obtaining desirable store locations, negotiating acceptable leases, completing projects on budget, supplying proper levels of merchandise and the hiring and training of store managers and sales associates. The new stores may place increased demands on our company’s operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could cause our company to operate less effectively. Furthermore, there is a possibility that new stores that are opened in existing markets may have an adverse effect on future sales of previously existing stores in such markets. In addition, our failure to predict accurately the demographic or retail environment at any future store location could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We have had significant management changes during the past two fiscal years and these changes may impact our ability to execute our business strategy in the near term. In general, our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of our senior management and on our ability to identify, hire and retain key management personnel. In December 2004 and January 2005, we appointed a new President and Chief Executive Officer and four members to our Board of Directors. In August 2005, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer resigned from our company, and was replaced by a new Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in December 2005. On March 6, 2006, two new members joined our Board of Directors. Effective March 1, 2006, the president of our Arden B stores resigned and was replaced by a new president of Arden B Merchandise on March 13, 2006. On May 2, 2006, we hired our Chief Merchandise Officer for our Wet Seal division. We anticipate that we will continue to experience a transition period as this new management team is fully integrated. Due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the retail apparel industry, we may not be able to identify, hire or retain key personnel with the merchandising and management skills necessary to consistently offer appealing products to our target market. Moreover, we are also exposed to employment practice litigation due to the large number of employees and high turnover of our sales associates. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain qualified senior management personnel, it could harm our business and limit our ability to implement our growth strategy. If our President and Chief Executive Officer elects not to extend his employment contract in February 2008, the continued implementation of our growth plan could be adversely impacted. The term of Mr. Joel N. Waller’s employment contract expires on February 1, 2008. In the event Mr. Waller’s contract is not extended, the retention of a Chief Executive Officer will involve a transition period for our management team and our Board of Directors, which may adversely impact the continued implementation of our growth plan. The strategy for our Arden B division implemented by our new Arden B management team may not be successful. Our strategy for our Arden B division may not be successful and we may have to write down the value of our Arden B assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The new president of merchandise for our Arden B division, Mr. Gregory Gemette, joined us in March 2006. Although Mr. Gemette has put together a management team of design, operational and merchandising individuals with significant industry experience, the success of Arden B is largely dependent upon its ability to design fashion that satisfies current fashion tastes and to provide merchandise in a timely manner for our customers. To the extent there are design and/or merchandising misjudgments or a lack of customer traffic in Arden B stores, the operating results of Arden B may be adversely and materially impacted. In addition to our new design and merchandising strategy, we intend to increase the percentage of imported merchandise for our Arden B stores during the next two fiscal years. However, if there are delays in our import chain, cancellations of orders, or quality issues related to imported products, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely impacted due to decreased sales and/or increased markdowns. If we are unable to anticipate and react to new fashion trends and/or if there is a decrease in the demand for fashionable apparel, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on a limited demographic customer base for a large percentage of our sales. Our brand image is dependent upon our ability to anticipate, identify and provide fresh inventory reflecting current fashion trends. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately or in a timely manner to these fashion trends, we could experience reduced consumer acceptance of our products, a diminished brand image and higher markdowns. 10 Table of Contents These factors could result in lower selling prices and sales volumes for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our sales also depend upon the continued demand by our customers for fashion apparel. Demand for our merchandise could be negatively affected by shifts in consumer discretionary spending to other goods, such as electronic equipment, computers and music. If the demand for apparel and related merchandise declines, our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations would be adversely affected. Since August 2004, our company has been a defendant in a class action related to our company’s securities. As previously reported, our company and certain of our former directors and former officers have been named as defendants in several securities class actions filed on behalf of persons who purchased our Class A Common Stock between January 7, 2003 and August 19, 2004. These actions have been consolidated in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The consolidated complaint alleged violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act by, among other allegations, making false and misleading statements concerning the progress of our company to stem the losses of our Wet Seal stores and return that business to profitability as well as the illegal use of material non-public information by former directors and a company controlled by them. The plaintiffs sought class certification, compensatory damages, interest, costs and attorneys’ fees and expenses. On September 15, 2005, the consolidated class action was dismissed against all defendants in the lawsuit. However, plaintiffs were granted leave to file an amended complaint, which they filed on November 23, 2005. We filed an additional motion to dismiss the amended complaint. The motion was argued in a court hearing on October 23, 2006, but the court has not yet made a ruling on the motion. In the event plaintiffs achieve a favorable outcome, significant damages could be assessed against our company that exceed available insurance coverage, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Two lawsuits have been filed against us alleging violations of the Fair Credit Reporting Act. In January and February 2007, we were served with two class action complaints alleging violations of The Fair Credit Reporting Act. The Act provides in part that portions of the credit card number may not be printed together with expiration dates on credit or debit card receipts given to customers. The Act imposes significant penalties upon violators of these rules and regulations where the violation is deemed to have been willful. Otherwise damages are limited to actual losses incurred by the card holder. The Company does not believe that it has any liability for the violations alleged in the complaints and will vigorously contest these allegations. However, in the event we are found to have liability under the Act for these allegations, significant damages could be assessed against our company and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in our results of operations for the third fiscal quarter and the fourth fiscal quarter would have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We experience seasonal fluctuations in revenues and operating income, with a disproportionate amount of our revenues and a majority of our income being generated in the third fiscal quarter “back to school” season, which begins the last week of July and ends during September, and the fourth fiscal quarter “holiday” season. Our revenues and income are generally lower during the first and second fiscal quarters. In addition, any factors that harm our third and fourth fiscal quarter operating results, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. In order to prepare for our peak shopping season, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry at other times of the year. An unanticipated decrease in demand for our 11 Table of Contents products during our peak shopping season could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross profit. Alternatively, an unanticipated increase in demand for certain of our products, as was the case in May and June of fiscal 2006 at our Wet Seal stores, could leave us unable to fulfill customer demand and result in lost sales and customer dissatisfaction. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings, the revenues contributed by new stores, merchandise mix and the timing and level of inventory markdowns. As a result, historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily indicative of future period-to-period results. You should not rely on the results of a single fiscal quarter, particularly the third fiscal quarter “back to school” season or fourth fiscal quarter “holiday” season, as an indication of our annual results or our future performance. Our failure to effectively compete with other retailers for sales and locations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The women’s retail apparel industry is highly competitive, with fashion, quality, price, location and service being the principal competitive factors. Our Wet Seal and Arden B stores compete with specialty apparel retailers, department stores and certain other apparel retailers, including Aeropostale, Anthropologie, Abercrombie & Fitch, Charlotte Russe, Gap, Banana Republic, H&M, Old Navy, Pacific Sunwear, American Eagle, Target, Urban Outfitters, Forever 21, Express, J.C. Penney, bebe, Zara and BCBG. Many of our competitors are large national chains that have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. We face a variety of competitive challenges, including: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in narrowly-defined market segments; • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers in our target markets and maintaining a sufficient quantity of these items for which there is the greatest demand; • obtaining favorable site locations within malls on reasonable terms; • sourcing merchandise efficiently; and • pricing our products competitively and achieving customer perception of value. Our industry has low barriers to entry that allow the introduction of new products or new competitors at a fast pace. Any of these factors could result in reductions in sales or the prices of our products which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, competition for prime locations and lease terms within shopping malls, in particular, is intense, and we may not be able to obtain new locations or maintain our existing locations on terms favorable to us. The upcoming expiration of leases for approximately 50 of our existing stores could lead to increased costs associated with renegotiating our leases and/or relocating our stores. We have approximately 50 existing store leases scheduled to expire in fiscal 2007. In connection with the expiration of these leases, we will have to renegotiate new leases which could result in higher rental amounts for each store and landlord requirements to remodel existing locations as a condition for renewal. Although we expect to negotiate new leases with acceptable terms that will allow us to remain in a substantial majority of these locations, we may not be able to obtain new terms that are favorable to us. In addition, as a result of renewal negotiations, we may be required by the landlord to remodel, which could result in significant capital expenditures. In addition, some landlords may refuse to renew our leases due to our lower sales per square foot as 12 Table of Contents compared with other prospective tenants. If we are unable to agree to new terms with our landlords, we will have to relocate these stores, which could result in a significant expenditure and could lead to an interruption in the operation of our business at the affected stores, and we could be required to relocate to less desirable locations. Because of the importance of our brand names, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We have registered trademarks for Wet Seal and Arden B (which are registered in the retail store services class and pending in others). We take actions to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, others may infringe on our intellectual property rights or seek to block the sale of our products as violative of their intellectual property rights. If we are required to stop using any of our registered or non-registered trademarks, our sales could decline and, consequently, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our retail store operations are affected by local, regional and national economic conditions. Our business is sensitive to consumer spending patterns and preferences. Various economic conditions affect the level of spending on the merchandise we offer, including general business conditions, interest rates, taxation, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Our growth, sales and profitability may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions on a local, regional or national level. Further, the majority of our stores are located in shopping malls. We derive sales, in part, from the high volume of traffic in these malls. The inability of mall “anchor” tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic around our stores, or the decline in the popularity of malls as shopping destinations, would reduce our sales volume and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Covenants contained in agreements governing our existing indebtedness restrict the manner in which we conduct our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, growth prospects and ability to procure merchandise for our stores. Our senior credit facility and the indenture, as amended, governing our secured convertible notes contain covenants that restrict the manner in which we conduct our business. Subject to certain exceptions (including an exception to permit limited stock repurchases), these covenants restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness; • make investments or acquisitions; • merge, consolidate, dissolve or liquidate; • engage in certain asset sales (including the sale of stock); • repurchase stock; • grant liens on assets; • pay dividends; and • close stores. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreements governing our existing indebtedness, acceleration of any amounts then outstanding, the foreclosure upon collateral securing the debt obligations, or the unavailability of the lines of credit. 13 Table of Contents We depend upon a single center for our corporate offices and distribution activities, and any significant disruption in the operation of this center could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our corporate offices and the distribution functions for all of our stores and Internet business are handled from a single, leased facility in Foothill Ranch, California, and we do not have contracted back-up operating facilities. In general, this area of California is subject to earthquakes. Any significant interruption in the operation of this facility due to a natural disaster, accident, system failure or other unforeseen event could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and, consequently, lead to a decrease in sales. The financial losses incurred may exceed our insurance for earthquake damages and business interruption costs related to any such disruption. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we have little experience operating essential functions away from our main corporate offices and are uncertain what effect operating such satellite facilities might have on our business, personnel and results of operations. We do not authenticate the license rights of our suppliers. We purchase merchandise from a number of vendors who purport to hold manufacturing and distribution rights under the terms of license agreements or that assert their products are not subject to any restrictions as to distribution. We generally rely upon each vendor’s representation concerning those manufacturing and distribution rights and do not independently verify whether each vendor legally holds adequate rights to the licensed properties they are manufacturing or distributing. If we acquire unlicensed merchandise or merchandise violating a registered trademark, we could be obligated to remove it from our stores, incur costs associated with destruction of the merchandise if the vendor is unwilling or unable to reimburse us and be subject to civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks associated with our procurement of products from non-U.S. based vendors and U.S. vendors that purchase products internationally, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A portion of our products is manufactured outside the United States. As a result, we are susceptible to greater losses as a result of a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. These factors include: • import or trade restrictions (including increased tariffs, customs duties, taxes or quotas) imposed by the United States government in respect of the foreign countries in which our products are currently manufactured or any of the countries in which our products may be manufactured in the future; • political instability or acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds between the United States and foreign jurisdictions, and/or potential disruption of imports due to labor disputes at U.S. ports, any of which could adversely affect our merchandise flow and, consequently, cause our sales to decline; and • local business practices that do not conform to our legal or ethical guidelines. Our imports are limited by textile agreements between the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions, including Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and South Korea. These agreements impose quotas on the amounts and types of merchandise that may be imported into the United States from these countries. These agreements also allow the United States to limit the importation of categories of merchandise that are not now subject to specified limits. The United States and the countries in which our products are produced or sold may also, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. In addition, none of our international suppliers or international manufacturers supplies 14 Table of Contents or manufactures our products exclusively. As a result, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers and import quota capacity. If we were unable to obtain our raw materials and finished apparel from the countries where we wish to purchase them, either because room under the necessary quotas was unavailable or for any other reason, or if the cost of doing so should increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Violation of labor laws and practices by our suppliers could harm our business and results of operations. Our company’s policy is to use only those sourcing agents and independent manufacturers who operate in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The violation of laws, particularly labor laws, by an independent manufacturer, or by one of the sourcing agents, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or sourcing agent’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States or in the country in which the manufacturing facility is located, and the public revelation of those illegal or unethical practices, could cause significant damage to our company’s reputation. Although our manufacturer operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control these manufacturers and cannot guarantee their legal and regulatory compliance. We are exposed to business risks as a result of our Internet operations. We operate online stores at www.wetseal.com and www.ardenb.com. Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • online security breaches and/or credit card fraud; • reliance on third-party software providers; and • diversion of sales from our retail stores. In addition, increased Internet sales by our competitors could result in increased price competition and decreased margins. Our inability to effectively address these risks and any other risks that we face in connection with our Internet operations could adversely affect the profitability of our Internet operations. Risks Related to our Class A Common Stock Our stockholders may experience additional dilution due to previous private placements of convertible securities as well as the issuance of additional securities in the future. Since May 2004, we have completed private placements of Class A Common Stock as well as warrants, convertible notes and shares of preferred stock that are convertible into or exercisable for shares of our Class A Common Stock. Through February 3, 2007, we have issued 56,409,734 shares of our Class A Common Stock as a result of these private placements and exercises and conversions of these securities. An additional 19,659,376 shares of Class A Common Stock may be issued under the convertible notes, preferred stock and warrants that remain outstanding, and this number of shares of Class A Common Stock is subject to anti-dilution adjustments based upon the anti-dilution provisions contained in these instruments. The issuance of the additional shares of Class A Common Stock upon conversion and exercise could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to decline. In addition, the issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of our existing stockholders’ equity interest. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities could also trigger an anti-dilution adjustment pursuant to outstanding warrants, convertible notes or preferred stock. 15 Table of Contents The price of our Class A Common Stock has fluctuated significantly during the past few years and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Our Class A Common Stock, which is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. The market price of our Class A Common Stock is likely to fluctuate, both because of actual and perceived changes in our operating results and prospects and because of general volatility in the stock market. The market price of our Class A Common Stock could continue to fluctuate widely in response to factors such as: • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; • the addition or loss of suppliers, customers and other business relationships; • changes in financial estimates of, and recommendations by, securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the apparel and consumer products industries; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of our Class A Common Stock; • general market and economic conditions; and • other events or factors, including the realization of any of the risks described in this risk factors section, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in the price and trading volume of our Class A Common Stock in response to factors such as those set forth above could be unrelated or disproportionate to our actual operating performance. We have never paid dividends on our Class A Common Stock and do not plan to do so in the future. Holders of shares of our Class A Common Stock are entitled to receive any dividends that may be declared by our Board of Directors. However, we have not paid any cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock and we do not expect to for the foreseeable future. Also, our agreements with our senior lenders and the indenture governing our notes restrict the payment of dividends to our stockholders. Our charter provisions, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects. Our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to designate and issue, without stockholder approval, up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences that could differentially and adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our Class A Common Stock, which could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. In addition, under certain circumstances our Board of Directors may grant rights to our stockholders under our stockholder rights plan. Furthermore, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. The possible issuance of preferred stock, the granting of rights to stockholders under our stockholder rights plan and the application of anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could each have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest, making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of Class A Common Stock and limiting the price that investors might in the future be willing to pay for shares of our Class A Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 