D. Risk Factors The following discussion should be read together with this Form 20-F, including the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements, and the notes thereto. 7 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Company’s Business Regulation may adversely affect revenues in certain of Telefónica Chile’s businesses. Tariff regulation The Chilean Government has historically regulated local telephony services in Chile. The Comisión Resolutiva Antimonopolios (the “Antitrust Authority”, now known as the “Tribunal de Libre Competencia”), a Chilean government agency responsible for making certain determinations relating to competitive conditions in the telecommunications industry, determined that Telefónica Chile is a dominant operator of local telephony in many geographical areas of Chile. As a result, the Company is subject to tariff decrees that regulate certain rates and fees that the Company can charge for such local telephony services in most of the country. In accordance with the telecommunications law, all telecommunications operators are subject to regulation of their access charges (the charge to telecommunications operators for accessing another operator’s network) which have been set at different levels depending on the operator. Consequently, costs of accessing different operators’ networks differ. Regulatory changes in approved access charge rates may affect the revenues for local telephony and costs of interconnections to other local operators. Similarly, interconnections to local operators represent costs for the long distance and mobile businesses. Despite the above, in January 2009, the Antitrust Authority issued an opinion recognizing that current market conditions do not justify tariff regulation regarding local telephone service (fixed and variable charge), public telephones and line connections. The Chilean telecommunications authority, the Subsecretaría de Telecomunicaciones (“Subtel”), may confirm, modify or reject that opinion and, in any case, the Company can give no assurance that the eventual ruling, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company. Tariff regulation may have a significant impact on Company revenues and its ability to compete in the marketplace, as the Company is required to charge the same tariff to all clients in a designated tariff area. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Licenses and Tariffs.” In 2008, approximately 27% of Company revenues (including the regulated items in fixed charge, variable charge, access charges and public telephony) were from regulated business activities. The application of the local service tariffs, defined by Tariff Decree No. 169 for the period from 2004 to 2009, resulted in a minor impact in the 2004 and 2005 financial statements of Telefónica Chile. In contrast, the introduction of Tariff Decree No. 187 in May 1999 resulted in a reduction of approximately 25% in regulated revenues per line in the first year. Since 1999, the Company has sought administrative relief to correct what it believes are certain errors and illegalities in Tariff Decree No. 187. Upon denial of such relief, and having exhausted the administrative recourses available to it, in March 2002, Telefónica Chile filed a civil lawsuit for damages against the State of Chile, which is currently pending. The Company can give no assurance that future tariff decrees for fixed telephony will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial position, as such future tariff decrees could cause alterations in demand or traffic volume, or changes in the timing of traffic distribution from more expensive to less expensive time slots. Other regulations New regulations or changes in the existing regulatory model may adversely affect the Company’s businesses. No assurance can be given that future regulations, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations of financial position. Law No. 18,168 (as amended, and together with the regulations promulgated thereunder, the “Telecommunications Law”) also specifies certain causes for which an operator can be sanctioned through penalties or even the termination of its public or intermediate service license, if the operator is in violation of the law or does not comply with the terms and conditions to which the license is subject. If the holder believes that its license has been terminated unlawfully, the holder may appeal the termination in Chilean courts. If a license is terminated, the holder is barred from applying for any license for a period of five years. Any such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial position. 8 Table of Contents Telefónica Chile faces intense competition. Telefónica Chile faces intense competition in every aspect of its business, ranging from existing operators to new entrants. In addition, consolidation is leading to greater levels of competition. In 2004, two leading cable operators merged. The combined company, VTR GlobalCom, currently leads the paid television market and is also a relevant player in broadband and fixed telephony. In the mobile telephony business, Telefónica Móviles (“TEM”) acquired Bellsouth in Chile and the mobile subsidiary of Telefónica Chile in 2004. In the same year, competition increased with the entry of new operators, primarily in the long distance and data transmission businesses. The Mexican operator Telmex, a data transmission operator, and América Móvil, a Telmex affiliate, entered the local mobile telephony market by acquiring Smartcom in August 2005. In 2007, Telmex also acquired ZAP, a local satellite television operator. Similarly, in September 2005, the local data transmission operator, GTD, acquired the local fixed operator Manquehue. In 2008, Telmex started building a hybrid fiber coaxial network with voice, broadband and pay television services. Telmex had already entered the residential segment through a bundled offer of telephony, broadband and satellite television. Its telephony and broadband services are provided over WiMax. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview Areas—Market and Competition.” In the fixed local telephony market, Telefónica Chile competes with both mobile telephony and other fixed and cable telephony operators, which are not subject to the same tariff regulations as the Company and therefore may compete with different conditions. Partly as a result, the Company’s market share has declined. In the corporate communications and data transmission services market, there are eight major operators in the main cities of Chile, three of which have nationwide infrastructure coverage. In the long distance services market, Telefónica Chile competes with numerous other long distance operators and with mobile telephone operators in the domestic long distance market. As a result, the Company has faced intense pricing pressure and a decreasing trend in traffic. Telefónica Chile also faces increasing competition in broadband services and in pay television services as well. The development of new technologies, such as wireless accesses like WiMax or 3G networks, deployed by mobile operators to provide wireless broadband has increased competition in the market. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Market and Competition.” Increased competition or the entrance of new competitors could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Changes in technology could affect Telefónica Chile in ways it cannot predict. The telecommunications industry as a whole has traditionally been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to rapid and significant changes in technology and the related introduction of new products and services. Although the Company believes that for the foreseeable future, existing and developing technologies will not materially adversely affect the viability or competitiveness of its telecommunications business, there can be no assurance as to the effect of such technological changes on the Company or that the Company will not be required to expend substantial financial resources on the development or implementation of new competitive technologies. New services and technological advances may offer additional opportunities to compete against the Company on the basis of cost, quality or functionality. It may not be practicable or cost-effective for the Company to replace or upgrade its installed technologies in response to competitors’ actions. Responding to such change may require the Company to devote substantial financial resources to the development, procurement or implementation of new technologies and to write off obsolete assets relating to its existing technology. If the Company chooses to purchase or invest in the development of new telecommunications technology, there can be no assurance that such new products or services will not serve as a substitute to existing products and services offered by the Company. In the past, the Company has experienced such substitution with the introduction of mobile communications service, which has contributed to the declines in number of fixed lines, volume of traffic and in domestic long distance traffic. Recent trends seen outside of Chile have shown an increased use of IP technology as a substitute for traditional voice services, which are often provided at lower prices. The Telecommunications Law requires a regulation to be defined for these services to be offered to the public. Additionally, in 2006, Subtel initiated a process of public inquiry for new regulations relating to IP telephony over broadband. After receiving comments from thirty actors during the inquiry process, on June 14, 2008, Rule No. 484 regarding voice over IP services was published in the Official Gazette. Even though, such rule favors the application of regulations similar to those of public telephone 9 Table of Contents services to voice over IP, use of this technology may serve as a substitute for the Company’s local and long distance traffic and increase pricing pressure. As a result, if the Company chooses to introduce any such new telephony products or services, it can give no assurance that the benefits of such new products and services will not be materially offset by declines in existing products and services offered by the Company or that it will be permitted to participate in that business. Labor relations may negatively impact Telefónica Chile. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 60% of the Company’s employees were union members. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had collective bargaining agreements in place with 22 unions. The Company has taken steps to maintain stable labor relations, such as the contracts for periods from three to four years that were signed after a successful collective bargaining process, as well as the agreement between the Company and its employees in order to implement a new model of labor relations, which was designed to encourage a greater degree of participation and to address the interests of workers and management alike. In 2008, a collective labor agreement was signed with the Chilean telecommunications union, SINTELFI, the largest union in terms of representation of Company employees, representing 1,605 employees. The agreement was negotiated in advance of its expiration, and modified the parameters for annual compensation and incentive adjustments, basing them on performance, productivity and alignment with business objectives. As of December 31, 2008, 92.8% of unionized employees have signed three to four year contracts. However, the Company can provide no assurance that in the future it will be able to successfully negotiate new contracts on favorable terms, or that the unions involved in the negotiations will not choose to implement a labor strike or invoke Article 369 at such time. Article 369 of the Chilean Labor Code allows unions that are renewing labor agreements to freeze the conditions of the previous agreement for a period of 18 months. In addition, new regulations or changes in the existing labor laws may adversely affect the Company’s businesses. Telefónica is the controlling shareholder of Telefónica Chile, and thus may determine the outcome of actions requiring shareholder approval. As a result of the tender offers launched by Inversiones Telefónica International Holding Limitada in September and December 2008, Telefónica Internacional Chile S.A. increased its ownership of Telefónica Chile’s common stock from 44.9% to 97.89%. Telefónica Internacional Chile is a 99.9% owned subsidiary of Telefónica Chile Holding B.V., which in turn is indirectly wholly-owned by Telefónica. Consequently, Telefónica has the ability to determine the outcome of any actions requiring shareholder approval. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Shareholders’ Meetings and Voting Rights.” In addition, Telefónica’s equity stake in Telefónica Chile allows Telefónica to control the Company’s Board of Directors. At the General Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 13, 2007, Telefónica elected five of seven members of the Board of Directors. The Company could be adversely affected if major suppliers fail to provide needed equipment and services on a timely basis. The Company depends on suppliers for network infrastructure, equipment and services to satisfy its operating needs. Many suppliers rely heavily on labor; therefore, any work stoppage or labor relations problems affecting the Company’s suppliers could adversely affect its operations. Suppliers may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements. If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services on a timely basis that satisfies its customers’ demands, the Company could be negatively affected. Similarly, interruptions in the supply of telecommunications equipment for networks could impede network development and expansion. The Company’s historical consolidated financial and operating results may not be indicative of future performance. The Company has divested subsidiaries in the past years. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—Divestures.” In October 2008, the Company sold the assets and customer portfolio of a subsidiary, Telefónica Asistencia y Seguridad S.A., to Prosegur for a total of Ch$15,563 million. In 10 Table of Contents July 2004, the Company sold its mobile subsidiary, which provided 29.2% of operating revenues in the year ended December 31, 2003, and generated Ch$13,467 million (historic value) in operating income during the same period. The sale of businesses resulted in the loss of their contributions to the Company’s operating results. No assurances can be given that the Company will or will not divest of additional businesses in the future or that such divestitures will or will not affect the Company’s results and access to financing. As a result, the Company’s historical consolidated financial results for and as of the end of periods ending on or prior to these transactions may not be indicative of its future operating and financial performance. The Company may not be successful in the development of new businesses or product innovation. The Company cannot ensure the success of any new services, products or the development of new businesses in the telecommunications market or other markets, or their impact on the Company’s results. Certain considerations related to platforms located in other countries. The Company operates in Chile and most of its systems and platforms are located within Chile. Nevertheless, the Company also relies on shared platforms within the Telefónica Group, such as SAP accounting support, and other equipment outside Chile in order to provide the pay television service. As a result, the Company cannot assure that volatility or unfavorable economic, political and social conditions outside Chile will not materially affect its ability to provide services. The Company may not be able to refinance its outstanding indebtedness. The Company’s total financial debt as of December 31, 2008 amounted to Ch$436,388 million, (US$685.7 million), including current maturities, outstanding derivatives and fair value adjustments, with an average maturity of 2.4 years. Although in the past Telefónica Chile has relied substantially on public debt issuances and bank loans to meet its financing requirements, in recent years its main sources of liquidity have been cash flow generated from operations and cash flow resulting from savings associated with the refinancing of certain loans and sale of assets. In 2008, the Company continued with the renegotiation of loans and extending of maturities. As a result, the Company has similar amounts of debt maturing in each of the next five years, the repayments of which are expected to be funded through cash flow generated from operations and refinancings. Due to recent turmoil in global credit markets and the continued decline in the global economy, the Company may not be able to refinance its debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which the Company previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to the Company or at all. Refinancing of debt or increased levels of debt could have negative effects that include: difficulties in obtaining future financing; reductions in credit ratings issued by rating agencies; restrictions on cash flows or operations imposed by lenders; higher rates; and reduced flexibility to take advantage of or pursue other business opportunities. For these reasons, among others, if current economic conditions persist or decline, the Company’s operating results and financial condition, as well as its ability to service debt and pay other obligations, could be adversely affected. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To provide effective service, the Company will need to continue to provide its customers with reliable service over its network. Some of the risks to the Company’s network and infrastructure include: · physical damage to access lines and networks; · power surges or outages; · software defects; · disruptions beyond the Company’s control; and · disruptions due to changes in obsolete equipment. The Company’s operations also rely on a stable supply of utilities. Given recent instability of those supplies, including the supply of gas from Argentina and electricity rationing in Chile, the Company can not ensure that future 11 Table of Contents supply instability or interruptions will not impair its ability to procure required utility services in the future, which could adversely impact its operations. Prolonged service interruptions could affect the Company’s business. The Company relies heavily on its network equipment, telecommunications providers, data and software to support all of its functions. The Company relies on its networks and the networks of others for substantially all of its revenues. The Company is able to deliver services only to the extent that it can protect its network systems against damage from power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, theft of copper wires from external networks and other disruptions. While the Company endeavors to provide for failures in the network by providing backup systems and procedures, it cannot guarantee that these backup systems and procedures will operate satisfactorily in an emergency. Should the Company experience a prolonged failure, it could seriously jeopardize its ability to continue operations. In particular, should a significant service interruption occur, its customers may choose a different provider and its reputation may be damaged, reducing its attractiveness to new customers. The Company may not be successful in currently pending legal proceedings. The Company is a party to lawsuits and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of its businesses, some of which have been pending for several years. An adverse outcome in, or any settlement of, these or other lawsuits could result in significant costs and negatively impact the Company’s financial results. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Risks Relating to Chile A downturn in the Chilean economy may adversely affect Telefónica Chile. Nearly all of Telefónica Chile’s customers are Chilean companies or individuals, and substantially all of Telefónica Chile’s operations are located in Chile. For these reasons, the results of the Company’s operations and its financial condition are sensitive to, and dependent upon, the level of economic activity in Chile. Historically, growth in the Chilean telecommunications industry has been tied to the state of Chile’s economy, particularly levels of consumer spending and demand. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in Chile, could negatively affect the affordability of and demand for some of the Company’s products and services. In difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of the Company’s products, electing to use fewer higher-margin services or obtaining products and services under lower-cost programs offered by other companies. Similarly, under these conditions the business customers that the Company serves may delay purchasing decisions, delay full implementation of service offerings or reduce their use of services. Furthermore, adverse economic conditions may lead to an increased number of the Company’s consumer and business customers that are unable to pay for services. If any of these events were to occur, it could have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company can give no assurance that Chile’s economy will continue to grow in the future, nor can it give assurances that future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy will not impair its ability to proceed with its business plan or materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. Developments in other emerging markets or in the global telecommunications market may adversely affect Telefónica Chile. Developments in the global telecommunications market and in other emerging markets, particularly in Latin America, may adversely affect the market for Telefónica Chile’s securities and the availability of foreign capital in Chile. The Company cannot predict whether events in other markets will adversely affect the price of, or market for, its securities. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the current recession in the United States and the recent financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, have caused a decrease in the amount of foreign capital invested in emerging markets, including Chile and Latin America. In turn, this has caused securities markets in many emerging markets, including Chile and Latin America, to decrease in value and has led to depreciation of emerging market currencies compared to the U.S. dollar. The Company cannot give any assurance 12 Table of Contents that negative developments in Latin America or other emerging markets will not occur or that such negative developments would not adversely affect the securities markets in which the Company’s securities trade or affect the Company’s access to sources of financing. An increase in inflation may adversely affect Telefónica Chile. Chile has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and Telefónica Chile’s financial condition and results of operations. The rate of inflation as measured by changes in the Chilean consumer price index in the years 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 was 2.4%, 3.7%, 2.6%, 7.8% and 7.1% respectively. Over the past two years, inflation has exceeded the Central Bank’s target range. Generally, high levels of inflation will adversely affect the Company’s financial condition to the extent that, during any given period: · the Company’s average domestic inflation-indexed liabilities exceed its average domestic inflation-indexed assets; · the Company’s average monetary assets exceed its average monetary liabilities; or · the Company is unable to transfer increased inflation-indexed costs such as labor and supplies to customers. Any significant increase in the level of inflation in the future may adversely affect the performance of the Chilean economy and the operating results of the Company. Currency devaluations and foreign exchange fluctuations may adversely affect Telefónica Chile. Volatility of the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In 2004, 2005 and 2007, the peso recorded a nominal appreciation against the U.S. dollar of 6.1%, 8.1% and 6.7%, versus the prior year. However, in 2006 and 2008 the peso experienced a nominal depreciation of 3.9% and 28.1%, respectively. The main driver of exchange rate volatility in the past years was the significant devaluations in other Latin American countries, mainly Brazil, as well as general uncertainty and trade imbalances in global markets. In 2007, Chilean peso appreciation was driven by improvement in Chilean economic indicators and record commodities prices, together with weakness in the U.S. dollar. More recently, the primary driver of exchange rate volatility has been the substantial appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to emerging markets currencies, including the Chilean peso. The value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. See “Item 3. Key Information—Selected Financial Data—Exchange Rates.” Historically, a significant portion of the Company’s indebtedness has been denominated in U.S. dollars, while a substantial part of its revenues and operating expenses has been denominated in pesos. If the peso’s value declines against the dollar, Telefónica Chile will need more pesos to repay the same amount of dollar-denominated debt. As a result, fluctuations in the Chilean peso to U.S. dollar exchange rate may affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, 67.8% of the Company’s interest-bearing debt was denominated in U.S. dollars and was fully hedged against exchange rate variations between the peso and the U.S. dollar through financial instruments such as forward exchange agreements and cross-currency swaps. The remainder of the Company’s interest-bearing debt is UF- or peso-denominated and therefore not subject to exchange rate risk. The Company’s hedging policy against foreign exchange fluctuations is disclosed in “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Risk of Variations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.” Risks Relating to the Company’s ADSs The relative illiquidity and volatility of Chilean securities markets and the decreased liquidity of the Company’s common stock could adversely affect the price of the Company’s ADSs and common stock. Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller and less liquid than the major securities markets in the United States. In addition, Chilean securities markets may be affected materially by developments in other emerging markets, particularly in other countries in South America. Since the completion of the tender offers launched by 13 Table of Contents Telefónica Internacional Holding Limitada, the liquidity of the Company’s common stock in the Chilean market has markedly decreased. The relatively low liquidity of the Chilean market and the low liquidity of the Company’s common stock may impair the ability of holders of ADSs to sell shares of the Company’s common stock withdrawn from the ADS program into the Chilean market in the amount and at the price and time they wish to do so. The termination of the deposit agreement relating to the Company’s ADSs may impair ADS holders’ ability to transfer their ADSs, delay ADS holders’ receipt of any dividends and result in the cancellation of the ADSs and the subsequent sale of the securities underlying the ADSs. The Company has directed Citibank, N.A., as depositary, (the “Depositary”) to terminate the deposit agreement relating to the Company’s ADSs. Upon effectiveness of the termination, which the Company expects to occur on or about May 7, 2009 (the “Termination Date”), the Depositary will cease to provide certain services, including the registration of transfer of Telefónica Chile’s ADSs, and it will suspend the distribution of dividends to the holders of the ADSs. Existing ADS holders may exchange their ADSs for the underlying Series A Common Stock of the Company at any time until the expiration of a 60-day period commencing on the Termination Date. In addition, after the expiration of such 60-day period, the Depositary may, and intends to, sell the securities underlying the ADSs and may thereafter hold the net proceeds of any such sale, together with any other cash then held by it under the deposit agreement, in an unsegregated account, without liability for interest, for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the ADSs. The Company cannot guarantee that such termination will not impair ADS holders’ ability to transfer their ADSs when and if they choose to do so, will not delay the receipt of any dividends or that the sale of any securities underlying the ADSs will occur in a manner that maximizes the price obtained for such securities. See “Item 9. The Offer and Listing—Offer and Listing Details—Common Stock Prices and Related Matters” for more information. The delisting of the Company’s ADS’ from the NYSE and the Company’s expected deregistration with the SEC may reduce the liquidity of the market for the Company’s ADSs. Effective February 19, 2009, the Company’s ADSs have been delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. Following the delisting and the termination of the deposit agreement, the Company will deregister with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) if it becomes eligible to do so under the SEC’s rules. The company hopes to do so in or around October 2009. If it is able to deregister with the SEC, the Company will no longer be required to file annual or periodic reports with the SEC, and investors will have to rely on its filings with the SVS and the Chilean Stock Exchanges, which are made in the Spanish language, for information. As a result, there can be no assurance that a liquid market for the Company’s ADSs exists now or will exist in the future. See See “Item 9. The Offer and Listing—Offer and Listing Details—Common Stock Prices and Related Matters” for more information. Controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments in Chile may adversely impact the Company’s ADS holders’ ability to obtain and dispose of the shares of the Company’s common stock underlying its ADRs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents are generally subject to exchange control regulations that restrict the repatriation of investments and earnings from Chile. The Company’s ADSs are subject to an ADR foreign investment contract among us, the Depositary and the Central Bank of Chile which is intended to grant holders of the Company’s ADSs and the Depositary access to Chile’s formal exchange market. See “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Rates.” Pursuant to current Chilean law, the Company’s ADR foreign investment contract may not be amended unilaterally by the Central Bank of Chile. However, the Company cannot make any assurances that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of its ADSs, the disposition of underlying shares of its common stock or the repatriation of the proceeds from the disposition of the underlying common stock could not be imposed in the future, nor can the Company assess the duration or impact of the restrictions if imposed. If for any reason, including changes to the Company’s ADR foreign investment contract or Chilean law, the Depositary is unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends or other distributions in Chilean pesos. Transferees of shares of the Company’s common stock withdrawn from the ADR facility will not be entitled to access to the formal exchange market unless the withdrawn shares are redeposited with the Depositary. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley de Sociedades Anónimas (Law No. 18,046), the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas (the “Chilean Corporations Law”) and applicable regulations require that whenever the Company issues new common stock for 14 Table of Contents cash, the Company grants preemptive rights to all of its shareholders (including holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. Since the Company is not obligated to elect to make a registration statement available with respect to such rights and the common stock, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise their preemptive rights. If a registration statement is not filed or an applicable exemption is not available, the Depositary will sell holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. Holders of ADSs may have fewer and less well-defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States. The Company’s corporate affairs are governed by its estatutos, or bylaws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, the Company’s shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Foreign Exchange risks may adversely affect the U.S. dollar amount of dividends payable to holders of the Company’s ADSs. Chilean trading in the shares of the common stock underlying ADSs is conducted in pesos. The Depositary will receive cash distributions that the Company makes with respect to the shares underlying the ADSs in pesos. The Depositary will then convert such pesos to U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate to make dividend and other distribution payments in respect to ADSs. If the Chilean peso depreciates against the U.S. dollar, the value of the ADSs and the distributions ADS holders receive from the Depositary may decrease. ITEM 