Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors, among others, could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and thus should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and future prospects. The following risk factors are not an exhaustive list of the risks associated with our business. New factors may emerge or changes to these risks could occur that could materially affect our business. Our ability to maintain current operations is dependent upon achieving profitable operations or obtaining financing in the future. Historically, we have incurred significant net operating losses. We had a net loss of $315,000 in the year ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008 we had an accumulated deficit of $169.9 million. We will have a continuing need for new infusions of cash if we incur losses or fail to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future. We plan to attempt to increase our revenues through increased direct sales and marketing efforts on existing products and achieving regulatory approval for other products. If our direct sales and marketing efforts are unsuccessful, or we are unable to achieve regulatory approval for our products, we will be unable to significantly increase our revenues and it may be necessary to significantly reduce our operations or obtain additional debt or equity financing. If we are required to significantly reduce our operations, our business will be harmed. Changes in our business, financial performance or the market for our products may require us to seek additional sources of financing, which could include short-term debt, long-term debt or equity. Although in the past we have been successful in obtaining financing, the recent global economic crisis has made it very difficult for 11 Table of Contents companies to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain such financing, we may have to scale back our operations. Even if we obtain such financing, it may restrict our business operations, in the case of debt financing, or cause substantial dilution to our stockholders, in the case of equity financing. Our ability to maintain revenues and operating income and achieve growth in sales and operating income in the future is dependent upon physician awareness of our products as a safe, efficacious and appropriate treatment for their patients. Our ability to maintain current sales levels and/or increase our revenues and operating income is dependent upon acceptance of our products and services by cardiac surgeons, cardiologists, hospitals and other healthcare providers in the United States. Our sales and marketing efforts are focused on educating these groups on TMR and its benefits relative to other existing procedures. If cardiac surgeons and cardiologists do not choose to adopt our products in lieu of alternative therapeutic options, we may not be able maintain or increase our revenues, which will negatively impact our business. We may not be able to successfully market our products if third party reimbursement for the procedures performed with our products is not available for our health care provider customers. Few individuals are able to pay directly for the costs associated with the use of our products. In the United States, hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers that purchase medical devices generally rely on third party payors, such as Medicare, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the procedure in which the medical device is being used. Hospitals and physicians are eligible to receive Medicare reimbursement covering 100% of the costs for TMR procedures. If the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, were to materially reduce or terminate Medicare coverage of TMR procedures, our business and results of operation could be harmed. Even though Medicare beneficiaries appear to account for a majority of all patients treated with the TMR procedure, the remaining patients are beneficiaries of private insurance and private health plans. We have limited experience to date with the acceptability of our TMR procedures for reimbursement by private insurance and private health plans. If private insurance and private health plans do not provide reimbursement, our business will suffer. If we obtain the necessary foreign regulatory registrations or approvals for our products, market acceptance in international markets would be dependent, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement is a significant factor considered by hospitals in determining whether to acquire new equipment. A hospital is more inclined to purchase new equipment if third-party reimbursement can be obtained. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country. They include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. International reimbursement approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. Failure to receive international reimbursement approvals could hurt market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which such approvals are sought, which would significantly reduce international revenue. If we fail to maintain regulatory approvals and clearances, or are unable to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals for our future products or product modifications, our ability to commercially distribute and market these products could suffer. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of most new medical devices only after the device has received clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or is the subject of an approved premarket approval, or PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a non-exempt lower risk medical device through the 510(k) process if the manufacturer demonstrates that the new product is substantially equivalent to other legally marketed products not requiring PMA approval. High risk devices deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting, or implantable devices, or devices not deemed substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device, require a PMA. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance 12 Table of Contents process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device for its intended use. Our currently commercialized products have been cleared through the PMA process. However, our Pearl 8.0 handpiece is currently under an IDE study and will require a PMA supplement, and our PHOENIX handpiece will also require an IDE study and PMA application. Our failure to comply with U.S. federal and state governmental regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearance or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties, among other things. In the most extreme cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facility are possible. If we, our suppliers, or our manufacturers fail to comply with ongoing FDA or other foreign regulatory authority requirements, our business may be negatively impacted. Any product for which we obtain clearance or approval, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post-approval clinical data and labeling and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspections by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies. In particular, we and our suppliers are required to comply with the Quality System Regulations, or QSR, and Medical Devices Directive, or MDD, regulations, which may include International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, standards, for the manufacture of our products and other regulations which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which we obtain clearance or approval. Regulatory bodies enforce the QSR and ISO regulations through inspections. The failure by us or one of our suppliers or manufacturers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in, among other things, any of the following enforcement actions: • warning letters or untitled letters; • fines and civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; • delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; • withdrawal or suspension of approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; • product recall or seizure; • orders for physician notification or device repair, replacement or refund; • interruption of production; • operating restrictions; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these actions were to occur it would harm our reputation and cause our product sales to suffer and may prevent us from generating revenue. Even if regulatory clearance or approval of a product is granted, such clearance or approval may be subject to limitations on the intended uses for which the product may be marketed and reduce our potential to successfully commercialize the product and generate revenue from the product. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, labeling, training or other marketing or educational activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we cease or modify our training educational, labeling or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions. 13 Table of Contents We may also be required to conduct costly post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of our products, and we must comply with medical device reporting requirements, including the reporting of adverse events and certain malfunctions related to our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as the QSR or Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. In addition, we are subject to extensive regulation relating to the marketing and sale of our products, including our interactions with physicians. If we are found to have violated any of these rules or regulations, we may face fines or other penalties and our sales efforts may be negatively impacted. In the future, the FDA could restrict the current uses of our TMR System and thereby restrict our ability to generate revenues. We currently derive approximately 99% of our revenues from our TMR System. The FDA has approved this product for sale and use by physicians in the United States. At the request of the FDA, we are currently conducting post-market surveillance of our TMR System. If we should fail to meet the requirements mandated by the FDA or fail to complete our post-market surveillance study in an acceptable time period, the FDA could withdraw its approval for the sale and use of our TMR System by physicians in the United States. Additionally, although we are not aware of any safety concerns during our on-going post-market surveillance of our TMR System, if concerns over the safety of our TMR System were to arise, the FDA could restrict the currently-approved uses of our TMR System. In the future, if the FDA were to withdraw its approval or restrict the range of uses for which our TMR System can be used by physicians in the United States, such as restricting TMR’s use with the coronary artery bypass grafting procedure, either outcome could lead to reduced or no sales of our TMR product in the United States and our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may fail to comply with international regulatory requirements and could be subject to regulatory delays, fines or other penalties. Regulatory requirements in foreign countries for international sales of medical devices often vary from country to country. In addition, the FDA must approve the export of devices to certain countries. The occurrence and related impact of the following factors would harm our business: • delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, foreign regulatory approvals or clearances; • the loss of previously obtained approvals or clearances; or • the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. To market in Europe, a manufacturer must obtain the certifications necessary to affix to its products the CE Mark. The CE Mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives. In order to obtain and to maintain a CE Mark, a manufacturer must be in compliance with the applicable quality assurance provisions of the International Standards Organization and obtain certification of its quality assurance systems by a recognized European Union notified body. However, certain individual countries within the European Union require further approval by their national regulatory agencies. We have completed CE Mark registration for all of our products in accordance with the implementation of various medical device directives in the European Union. Failure to maintain the right to affix the CE Mark or other requisite approvals could prohibit us from selling our products in the European Union or elsewhere. Any enforcement action by international regulatory authorities with respect to past or future regulatory noncompliance could cause our business to suffer. Noncompliance with international regulatory requirements could result in 14 Table of Contents enforcement action such as prohibitions against us marketing our products in the European Union, which would significantly reduce international revenue. We purchase some of the key components of our products from single suppliers. The loss of these suppliers could prevent or delay shipments of our products or delay our clinical trials or otherwise adversely affect our business. Some of the key components of our products are currently purchased from only single suppliers. We do not have long-term contracts with the third-party suppliers of our product components. If necessary or desirable, we could source our product components and related services from other suppliers. However, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these components, and obtaining any additional regulatory clearances or approvals, if necessary, that may result from adding or replacing suppliers, will take a substantial amount of time and could result in increased costs and impair our ability to produce our products, which would adversely impact our business, operating results and prospects. In addition, some of our products, which we acquire from third parties, are highly technical and are required to meet exacting specifications, and any quality control problems that we experience with respect to the products supplied by third-party vendors could adversely and materially affect our reputation, our attempts to complete our clinical trials or commercialization of our products. We may also have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, and the failure of our suppliers to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements could expose us to regulatory action including, warning letters, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties, among others. If we experience any delay or deficiency in the quality of products supplied to us by third-party suppliers, or if we have to switch to replacement suppliers, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of our products would be interrupted for an extended period of time, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. In addition, we may be required to obtain prior regulatory clearance or approval from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities to use different suppliers or components. As a result, regulatory clearance or approval of our products may not be received on a timely basis, or at all, and our business, operating results and prospects would be harmed. If our independent contract manufacturers fail to timely deliver to us sufficient quantities of some of our products and components in a timely manner, our operations may be harmed. Our reliance on independent contract manufacturers to manufacture most of our products and components involves several risks, including: • inadequate capacity of the manufacturer’s facilities; • interruptions in access to certain process technologies; and • reduced control over product availability, quality, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. Shortages of raw materials, production capacity constraints or delays by our contract manufacturers could negatively affect our ability to meet our production obligations and result in increased prices for affected parts. Any such reduction, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of our products or increases in the prices of components, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have long term supply agreements with our current contract manufacturers and we often utilize purchase orders, which are subject to acceptance by the supplier. Failure to accept purchase orders could result in an inability to obtain adequate supply of our product or components in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. An unanticipated loss of any of our contract manufacturers could cause delays in our ability to deliver our products while we identify and qualify a replacement manufacturer, which delays could negatively impact our revenues. 15 Table of Contents If clinical trials of our current or future product candidates do not produce results necessary to support regulatory clearance or approval in the United States or elsewhere, we will be unable to commercialize these products. We are currently conducting clinical trials and will likely need to conduct additional clinical trials in the future in support of new product approvals. Clinical testing is expensive, typically takes many years and has an uncertain outcome. The initiation and completion of any of these studies may be prevented, delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA, institutional review boards or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical study protocol, force us to modify a previously approved protocol, or place a clinical study on hold; • patients do not enroll in, or enroll at the expected rate, or complete a clinical study; • patients or investigators do not comply with study protocols; • patients do not return for post-treatment follow-up at the expected rate; • patients experience serious or unexpected adverse side effects for a variety of reasons that may or may not be related to our products such as the advanced stage of co-morbidities that may exist at the time of treatment, causing a clinical study to be put on hold; • sites participating in an ongoing clinical study may withdraw, requiring us to engage new sites; • difficulties or delays associated with bringing additional clinical sites on-line; • third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in our clinical studies, do not perform the clinical studies on the anticipated schedule or consistent with the investigator agreement, clinical study protocol, good clinical practices, and other FDA and Institutional Review Board requirements; • third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • regulatory inspections of our clinical studies require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical studies; • changes in U.S. federal, state, or foreign governmental statutes, regulations or policies; • interim results are inconclusive or unfavorable as to immediate and long-term safety or efficacy; or • the study design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of the testing. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing in addition to those we have planned. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the efficacy and safety of any of our devices would prevent receipt of regulatory clearance or approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of that device. If the third parties on which we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with pre-clinical development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval for or commercialize our products. We do not have the ability to independently conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials for our products and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct such trials. If these third parties do not successfully perform their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products on a timely basis, if at all, and our business, operating results and prospects may be adversely affected. Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control. 16 Table of Contents Our third-party distributors may not effectively distribute our products. We depend on medical device distributors and strategic relationships for the marketing and selling of our products internationally. We depend on these distributors’ efforts to market our product, yet we are unable to control their efforts completely. In addition, we are unable to ensure that our distributors are complying all applicable laws regarding the sales of our products. If our distributors fail to market and sell our products effectively and in compliance with applicable laws, our operating results and business may suffer substantially, or we may have to make significant additional expenditures or concessions to market our products. The use, misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our image in the marketplace or result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business or result in FDA sanctions if we are deemed to have engaged in such promotion. Our currently marketed products have been cleared by the FDA for specific treatments. We cannot, however, prevent a physician from using our products outside of those indications cleared for use, known as off-label use. There may be increased risk of injury if physicians attempt to use our products off-label. We train our sales force not to promote our products for off-label uses. Furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been cleared by the FDA may not effectively treat such conditions, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace among physicians and patients. Physicians may also misuse our products or use improper techniques if they are not adequately trained, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability. If our products are misused or used with improper technique, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us that may not be covered by insurance. If we are deemed by FDA to have engaged in the promotion of any our products for off-label use, we could be subject to FDA prohibitions on the sale or marketing of our products or significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. Any of these events could harm our business and results of operations and cause our stock to decline. Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management and operational infrastructure affecting our ability to meet any increased demand for our products and possibly having an adverse effect on our operating results. Our administrative and other resources are limited. To the extent we are successful in expanding our business, such growth may place a significant strain on our limited resources, staffing, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolving growth of our business presents numerous risks and challenges, including: • the dependence on the growth of the market for our currently approved and reimbursed products; • our ability to successfully expand sales to potential customers and increasing clinical adoption of the TMR procedure; • domestic and international regulatory developments; • rapid technological change; • the highly competitive nature of the medical devices industry; and • the risk of entering emerging markets in which we have limited or no direct experience. Shortfalls in projections of sales growth as it is related to the increased up front expenses required to support the essential resources, may result in the need to obtain additional funding. If there are significant shifts in the competitive, regulatory or reimbursement environments the ability to achieve the desired operating results could be impacted. 17 Table of Contents Our operating results are expected to fluctuate and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results may not indicate future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter and are expected to continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter in future periods. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Due to the emerging nature of the markets in which we compete, forecasting operating results is difficult and unreliable. It is likely or possible that our operating results for a future quarter will fall below the expectations of public market analysts that may cover our stock and investors. When this occurred in the past, the price of our common stock fell substantially, and if this occurs in the future, the price of our common stock may fall again, perhaps substantially. Potential acquisitions or strategic relationships may be more costly or less profitable than anticipated and may adversely affect the price of our stock. We may pursue acquisitions or strategic relationships that could provide new technologies, products, or service offerings. Future acquisitions or strategic relationships may negatively impact our results of operations as a result of operating losses incurred by the acquired entity, the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity or equity-linked securities, incurrence of debt, or amortization or impairment charges. Furthermore, we may incur significant expenses pursuing acquisitions or strategic relationships that ultimately may not be completed. Moreover, to the extent that any proposed acquisition or strategic relationship that is not favorably received by shareholders and others in the investment community, the price of our stock could be adversely affected. Our international operations subject us to certain operating risks, which could adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. We sell our products in parts of Asia and the European Union. The sale and shipment of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade, import and export, and custom regulations and laws. Compliance with these regulations is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. In addition, many of the countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic or social instability. Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; • the imposition of U.S. or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; • economic instability; • a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors; • changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • the imposition of new trade restrictions; 18 Table of Contents • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; and • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights. Any of these factors may adversely impact our operations. In Europe, healthcare regulation and reimbursement for medical devices vary significantly from country to country. This changing environment could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in some European countries, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our operations are currently conducted at a single location that may be at risk from earthquakes or other natural disasters. We currently conduct all of our activities at a single location in Irvine, California, near known earthquake fault zones. We have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, any future natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could seriously harm our business and results of operations. The insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Our stock is currently listed on the Pink Sheets which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. The Pink Sheets is a significantly more limited market in comparison to other larger trading markets such as the NASDAQ Stock Market. The listing of our shares on the Pink Sheets results in a relatively illiquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, which could ultimately depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. Applicability of “penny stock rules” to broker-dealer sales of our common stock could have a negative effect on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. A penny stock is generally a stock that (i) is not listed on a national securities exchange, (ii) is listed on the Pink Sheets or on the OTC Bulletin Board, (iii) has a price per share of less than $5.00 and (iv) is issued by a company with net tangible assets less than $5 million. The penny stock trading rules impose additional duties and responsibilities upon broker-dealers and salespersons effecting purchase and sale transactions in common stock and other equity securities, including determination of the purchaser’s investment suitability, delivery of certain information and disclosures to the purchaser, and receipt of a specific purchase agreement before effecting the purchase transaction. Many broker-dealers will not effect transactions in penny stocks, except on an unsolicited basis, in order to avoid compliance with the penny stock trading rules. When our common stock is subject to the penny stock trading rules, such rules may materially limit or restrict the ability to resell our common stock, and the liquidity typically associated with other publicly traded equity securities may not exist. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, during the 52-week period ended February 27, 2009, the closing prices of our common stock as reported on the Pink Sheets ranged 19 Table of Contents from a high of $0.42 per share to a low of $0.11 per share. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • the timing and amount of conversions and subsequent sales of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; • additions or terminations of coverage of our common stock by securities analysts; • statements by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; • conditions or trends in the medical device industry; • the lack of liquidity in the market for our common stock; and • changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other medical device companies. We participate in a highly dynamic industry, which often results in significant volatility in the market price of our common stock irrespective of our performance. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by conditions in the healthcare and technology industry segments or conditions in the financial markets generally. We face competition from products of our competitors which could limit market acceptance of our products and render our products obsolete. The market for TMR laser systems is competitive. We currently compete with PLC Systems, a publicly traded company which uses a CO(2) laser and an articulated mechanical arm in its TMR products. Novadaq, a Canadian company publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, has assumed full sales and distribution responsibility in the United States for PLC’s TMR Heart Laser 2 System and associated kits pursuant to a co-marketing agreement between the two companies executed in March 2007. If PLC Systems, or any new competitor, is more effective than we are in developing new products and procedures and marketing existing and future products similar to ours, our business may suffer. The market for TMR laser systems is characterized by rapid technical innovation. Our current or future competitors may succeed in developing TMR products or procedures that: • are more effective than our products; • are more effectively marketed than our products; or • may render our products or technology obsolete. If we pursue FDA approval for our PMC laser system and we are successful at obtaining it, we will face competition for market acceptance and market share for that product. Our ability to compete may depend in significant part on the timing of introduction of competitive products into the market, and will be affected by the pace, relative to competitors, at which we are able to: • develop products; • complete clinical testing and regulatory approval processes; • obtain third party reimbursement acceptance; and • supply adequate quantities of the product to the market. 20 Table of Contents Third party intellectual property rights may limit the development and protection of our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success is dependent in large part on our ability to: • obtain patent protection for our products and processes; • preserve our trade secrets and proprietary technology; and • operate without infringing upon the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Certain competitors and potential competitors of ours have obtained U.S. patents covering technology that could be used for certain of our procedures and potential new applications. We do not know if such competitors, potential competitors or others have filed and hold international patents covering our procedures and potential new applications. In addition, international patents may not be interpreted the same as any counterpart U.S. patents. While we periodically review the scope of our patents and other relevant patents of which we are aware, the question of patent infringement involves complex legal and factual issues. Any conclusion regarding infringement may not be consistent with the resolution of any such issues by a court. We have been named as a defendant in a patent infringement lawsuit and costly litigation may be necessary to protect or defend our intellectual property rights. We may have to engage in time consuming and costly litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or to determine the proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may become subject to patent infringement claims or litigation, or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions. In this regard, we have recently been named as a defendant in a patent infringement lawsuit. See Part I, Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” below for a description of this lawsuit. Defending and prosecuting intellectual property suits, including the pending lawsuit described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time-consuming. We may be required to litigate further to: • enforce our issued patents; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or interference proceedings will result in substantial expense and significant diversion of effort by technical and management personnel. If the results of such litigation or interference proceedings are adverse to us, then the results may: • subject us to significant liabilities to third parties; • require us to seek licenses from third parties; • prevent us from selling our products in certain markets or at all; or • require us to modify our products. Although patent and intellectual property disputes regarding medical devices are often settled through licensing and similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. This would harm our business. 21 Table of Contents The U.S. patent laws have been amended to exempt physicians, other health care professionals, and affiliated entities from infringement liability for medical and surgical procedures performed on patients. We are not able to predict if this exemption will materially affect our ability to protect our proprietary methods and procedures. We rely on patent and trade secret laws, which are complex and may be difficult to enforce. The validity and breadth of claims in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. An issued patent or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent application may not exclude competitors or may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, patents issued or licensed to us may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. Furthermore, our competitors: • may have developed or will develop similar products; • may duplicate our products; or • may design around any patents issued to or licensed by us. Because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, it is possible that: • others may have filed applications for inventions covered by our pending patent applications before us; or • we may infringe upon patents that may eventually be issued to others on such applications. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business may be adversely impacted. We may suffer losses from product liability claims if our products cause harm to patients. We are exposed to potential product liability claims and product recalls. These risks are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. We could be subject to product liability claims if the use of our laser systems is alleged to have caused adverse effects on a patient or such products are believed to be defective. Our products are designed to be used in life-threatening situations where there is a high risk of serious injury or death. We are not aware of any material side effects or adverse events arising from the use of our TMR System. Any regulatory clearance for commercial sale of these products will not remove these risks. Any failure to comply with the FDA’s good manufacturing practices or other regulations could hurt our ability to defend against product liability lawsuits. We maintain insurance against product liability claims in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. If we were held liable for a product liability claim or series of claims in excess of our insurance coverage, such liability could harm our business and financial condition. We depend heavily on key personnel and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon our ability to identify, hire and retain key technical and senior management personnel. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee or if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete the institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team and could impair our ability to effectively operate and grow our business. We depend on the skills and abilities of our key management level employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by further turnover. To the extent we are unable to identify or retain suitable management personnel, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock could lower our stock price. As of December 31, 2008, we had 9,035,000 shares reserved for exercise of outstanding options and warrants. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of options or warrants or shares issued in previous financings, in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. If these sales were to occur, we may also find it more difficult to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate and desirable. In the future, we may issue additional shares in public or private offerings. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock would have on the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation as well as our rights agreement could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change of control. We have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals, thereby entrenching current management and possibly depressing the market price of our common stock. The rights issued under the stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, subject to any limitations prescribed by law, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without shareholder approval. The Board’s ability to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with financings, acquisitions and other corporate purposes, and the existence of the rights plan might discourage, delay or prevent a change in our ownership or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the Commission, and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. To the extent that such interpretations or changes in policies negatively impact our reported financial results, our results of stock price could be adversely affected. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we collectively refer to as Section 404, require us to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on those internal controls as of the end of each year beginning in fiscal 2007. Section 404 will also require our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in future periods. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. In the course of our Section 404 evaluations, we may identify conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses and we may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. Implementing any such matters would divert the attention of our management, could involve significant costs, and may negatively impact our results of operations. We note that there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, as they cannot prevent collusion, management override or failure of human judgment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations, result in a loss of investor confidence and negatively impact our share price. 23 Table of Contents We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable to you because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Unstable market conditions may have severe adverse consequences on our business. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse, or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets further deteriorate, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements, a radical economic downturn or increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans or plans to acquire additional technology. These economic conditions not only limit our access to capital but also make it extremely difficult for our customers, or vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, the recent economic crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is a risk that one or more of our current suppliers may encounter difficulties during challenging economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. 