D. Risk Factors The following discussion should be read together with this Form 20-F, including the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements, and the notes thereto. Risks Relating To Our Business Regulation may adversely affect revenues in certain of Telefónica Chile’s businesses. Tariff regulation The Chilean Government has historically regulated local telephony services in Chile. The Comisión Resolutiva Antimonopolios (the “Chilean Antitrust Authority”, now known as the “Tribunal de Libre Competencia”), a Chilean government agency responsible for making certain determinations relating to competitive conditions in the telecommunications industry, has determined that Telefónica Chile is a dominant operator of local telephony in many areas of Chile. As a result, the Company is subject to tariff decrees that regulate certain rates and fees the Company can charge for such local telephony services in most of the country. In accordance with the telecommunications law, all the telecommunications operators are subject to regulation of their access charges (the charge to telecommunications operators for accessing another operator’s network) which have been set at different levels depending on the operator. Consequently, costs of accessing different operators’ networks differ. Regulatory changes in approved access charge rates may affect the revenues for local telephony and costs of interconnections to other local operators. Similarly, interconnections to local operators represent costs for the long-distance and mobile businesses. Tariff regulation may have a significant impact on Company revenues and its ability to compete in the marketplace, as the Company is required to charge the same tariff to all clients in a designated tariff area. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Licenses and Tariffs.” In 2006, approximately 31% of Company revenues (including fixed charge, variable charge, access charges and public telephony) were from regulated business activities. The application of the local telephone tariffs, defined by Tariff Decree No. 169 for the period 2004-2009, resulted in a minor impact in the 2004 and 2005 financial statements of Telefónica Chile. In contrast, the introduction of Tariff Decree No. 187 in May 1999 resulted in a reduction of approximately 25% in regulated revenues per line in the first year. Since 1999, the Company has sought administrative relief to correct what it believes are certain errors and illegalities in Tariff Decree No. 187. Upon denial of such relief, and having exhausted the administrative recourses available to it, in March 2002, Telefónica Chile filed a civil lawsuit for damages against the State of Chile, which is currently pending. The Company can give no assurance that future tariff decrees for fixed telephony will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial position, as such future tariff decrees could cause alterations in demand or traffic volume, or changes in the timing of traffic distribution from more expensive to less expensive time slots. Other regulations New regulations or changes in the existing regulatory model may adversely affect the Company’s businesses. For instance, in 2006, the Undersecretary of Telecommunications, or Subtel, initiated a process of public inquiry for new regulations relating to IP telephony over broadband. The Company has participated in the public inquiry 6 Table of Contents process and together with other industry operators, has presented its opinion to this proposal. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Licenses and Tariffs.” No assurance can be given that the outcome of this or future regulations will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results or financial position. The Telecommunications Law also specifies certain causes for which an operator can be sanctioned through penalties or even the termination of its public or intermediate service license, if the operator is in violation of the law or does not comply with the terms and conditions to which the license is subject. If the holder believes that its license has been terminated unlawfully, the holder may appeal the termination in Chilean courts. If a license is terminated, the holder is barred from applying for any license for a period of five years. Any such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial position. Telefónica Chile faces intense competition. Telefónica Chile faces intense competition in every aspect of its business, ranging from existing operators to new entrants. In addition, consolidation is leading to greater levels of competition. As part of recent M&A activity underway, primarily in the cable operator business, two leading companies have merged, and now have approximately 90% market share of the paid television market, while also becoming a relevant player in broadband and fixed telephony. Meanwhile, in the mobile telephony business, Telefónica Móviles (TEM) acquired Bellsouth in Chile and the mobile subsidiary of Telefónica Chile. There was also an increase in competition with the entry of new operators in the market, primarily in the long-distance and data transmission businesses, such as the Mexican operator Telmex after acquiring a long-distance carrier and a data transmission operator and additionally, through América Móvil (a Telmex affiliate) entered the local mobile market by acquiring the operator Smartcom, and the change in ownership of Entel which also competes in both markets. Similarly, in September 2005, the local data transmission operator, GTD, acquired the local fixed operator Manquehue. See “Item 4. Business Areas—Market and Competition.” In the fixed local telephony market, Telefónica Chile competes with both mobile telephony and other fixed and cable telephony operators, which are not subject to the same tariff regulations as the Company and therefore may compete with different conditions. The Company’s market share has declined from 82% in 2000 to 68% in 2006. In the long-distance services market, Telefónica Chile competes with fifteen other long-distance operators and with mobile telephone operators in the domestic long-distance market. As a result, the Company has faced intense pricing pressure and a decreasing trend in traffic, which may result in further price decreases and market share losses in the future. During 2006, rates for domestic long distance services increased by 3.0% and rates for international long distance services decreased by 9.3% compared to rates as of December 31, 2005. Telefónica Chile also faces increasing competition in broadband services. The development of new technologies, such as wireless accesses like Wi Max or 3G, would increase competition in the market. See “Item 4. Business Areas—Market and Competition.” Increased competition or the entrance of new competitors could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Changes in technology could affect Telefónica Chile in ways it cannot predict. The telecommunications industry as a whole has traditionally been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to rapid and significant changes in technology and the related introduction of new products and services. Although the Company believes that for the foreseeable future, existing and developing technologies will not materially adversely affect the viability or competitiveness of its telecommunications business, there can be no assurance as to the effect of such technological changes on the Company or that the Company will not be required to expend substantial financial resources on the development or implementation of new competitive technologies. New services and technological advances may offer additional opportunities to compete against the Company on the basis of cost, quality or functionality. It may not be practicable or cost-effective for the Company to replace or upgrade its installed technologies in response to competitors’ actions. Responding to such change may require the Company to devote substantial financial resources to the development, procurement or implementation of new technologies and to write off obsolete assets relating to its existing technology. If the Company chooses to purchase, or invest in the development of new telecommunications technology, there can be no assurance that such 7 Table of Contents new products or services will not serve as a substitute to existing products and services offered by the Company. In the past, the Company has experienced such substitution with the introduction of mobile communications service, which has contributed to the declines in number of fixed lines, volume of traffic and in domestic long-distance traffic. Recent trends seen outside of Chile have shown an increased use of IP technology as a substitute for traditional voice services, at lower prices. The Telecommunications Law in Chile requires a regulation to be defined for these services to be offered to the public. Additionally, in 2006, Subtel initiated a process of public inquiry for new regulations relating to IP telephony over broadband. The Company has participated in the public inquiry process, together with other industry operators, and has presented its opinion about the proposal. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Licenses and Tariffs.” Nevertheless, the use of this technology may serve as a substitute for the Company’s local and long-distance traffic together with pricing pressure. As a result, if the Company chooses to introduce any such new telephony products or services, it can give no assurance that the benefits of such new products and services will not be materially offset by declines in existing products and services offered by the Company or that it will be permitted to participate in that business. Labor relations may negatively impact Telefónica Chile. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 61% of the Company’s employees were union members. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had collective bargaining agreements in force with 22 unions. In June 2002, the Company experienced a work stoppage of 28 days that involved 3,445 employees and temporarily caused certain disruptions in the Company’s service to customers. Following the strike, the unions involved in the strike elected to invoke the provisions of Article 369 of the Chilean Labor Code, allowing them to freeze the conditions of the previous labor contract for a period of 18 months, without readjustment. In 2006, eight collective bargaining agreements were successfully negotiated with 21 unions representing 2,141 individuals. As part of the collective bargaining process, in 2006, the remaining employees subject to Article 369 after having applied it since 2002, terminated their claim and renewed their agreements with the Company. The Company has taken steps to maintain stable labor relations, such as the contracts for periods from two to three years that were signed after a succesful collective bargaining process, as well as the agreement between the Company and its employees in order to implement a new model of labor relations, which was designed to encourage a greater degree of participation and to address the interests of workers and management alike. However, the Company can provide no assurance that in the future it will be able to successfully negotiate new contracts on favorable terms, or that the unions involved in the negotiations will not choose to implement a labor strike or invoke Article 369 at such time. The passage of new outsourcing legislation may adversely affect our operating income. New outsourcing legislation took effect in January 2007 which requires certain persons that the Company had treated as outsourced independent contractors to be treated as employees and, therefore, be entitled to certain benefits to which employees are entitled as a matter of Chilean law. The Company estimates that approximately 800 persons that were formally independent contractors will be hired as internal employees between January and April 2007. We estimate that the financial impact of this change will not be material. Telefónica is the controlling shareholder of Telefónica Chile, and thus may determine the outcome of actions requiring shareholder approval. Telefónica Internacional Chile S.A. (“Telefónica Internacional Chile”) owns 44.89% of the shares of Telefónica Chile. Telefónica Internacional Chile is a 99.9% owned subsidiary of Telefónica Chile Holding B.V., which in turn is indirectly wholly owned by Telefónica. Consequently, Telefónica may have the ability to determine the outcome of any actions requiring shareholder approval. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Shareholders’ Meetings and Voting Rights.” In addition, Telefónica’s equity stake in Telefónica Chile allows Telefónica to control the Company’s Board of Directors. In accordance with the Company’s Bylaws, at the General Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 14, 2005, Telefónica elected five out of seven members of the Board of Directors. 8 Table of Contents The Company could be adversely affected if major suppliers fail to provide needed equipment and services on a timely basis. We depend on suppliers for network infrastructure and equipment to satisfy our operating needs. They may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements. If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services on a timely basis that satisfies our customers’ demands, the Company could be negatively affected. Similarly, interruptions in the supply of telecommunications equipment for networks could impede network development and expansion. Our historical consolidated financial and operating results may not be indicative of future performance. The Company has divested subsidiaries in the past years. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—Divestures.” In July 2004, the Company sold its mobile subsidiary, which provided 29.2% of operating revenues in the year ended December 31, 2003, and generated Ch$13,467 million (historic value) in operating income during the same period. The sale of businesses results in the loss of their contributions to our operating results. No assurances can be given that the Company will or will not divest of additional businesses in the future or that such divestitures will or will not affect the Company’s results and access to financing. As a result, our historical consolidated financial results for and as of the end of periods ending on or prior to these transactions may not be indicative of our future operating and financial performance. We may not be successful in the development of new businesses or product innovation. The Company cannot assure the success of any new services, products or the development of new businesses in the telecommunications market or other markets, or their impact on the Company’s results. This includes the Company’s entrance into the paid television market in the year 2006. Certain considerations related to platforms located in other countries The Company operates in Chile and most of its systems and platforms are located within Chile. Nevertheless, the Company also relies on technical platforms and other equipments such as television up links located in Perú, as part of shared platforms within the Telefónica Group. As a result, the Company cannot assure that volatility or unfavorable economic, political and social conditions will not materially affect its ability to provide services. We may not be able to refinance our outstanding indebtedness. The Company’s total financial debt as of December 31, 2006 amounted to Ch$401,590 million (US$754.3 million), with an average maturity of 3.6 years. The Company’s main historical sources of liquidity have been its cash flows from operations, proceeds from borrowings and the issuance of equity. Although in the past Telefónica Chile has relied substantially on public debt issuances and bank loans to meet its financing requirements, in recent years its main sources of liquidity have been cash flow generated from operations and cash flow resulting from savings associated with the refinancing of certain loans and sale of assets. During 2006, the Company continued with debt reductions and the renegotiation of loans, lowering interest rates and extending maturities. These efforts have resulted in a stable level of maturities for the next five years, which are expected to be funded through cash flow generated from operations and refinancing. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to arrange any potential financing to fund these maturities along with capital expenditures and dividends on acceptable terms. Refinancing of debt or increased levels of debt could have negative effects that include: difficulties in obtaining future financing; reductions in credit ratings issued by rating agencies; restrictions over cash flows or operations imposed by lenders; higher rates and reduced flexibility to take advantage of or pursue other business opportunities. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To provide effective service, we will need to continue to provide our customers reliable service over our network. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: physical damage to access lines; power surges or outages; 9 Table of Contents software defects; disruptions beyond our control; and disruptions due to changes in obsolete equipment. Our operations also rely on a stable supply of utilities. Given recent instability of those supplies, including the supply of gas from Argentina, we can not assure that future institutional instability will not impair our ability to procure required utility services in the future which could adversely impact our operations. Prolonged service interruptions could affect our business. We rely heavily on our network equipment, telecommunications providers, data and software to support all of our functions. We rely on our networks and the networks of others for substantially all of our revenues. We are able to deliver services only to the extent that we can protect our network systems against damage from power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, theft of copper wires from external networks and other disruptions. During 2006, Telefónica Chile’s networks were impacted due to an increase in thefts of copper cables. These thefts had to be absorbed into the investment plan by devoting approximately Ch$6,000 to replacing the affected networks. While we endeavor to provide for failures in the network by providing backup systems and procedures, we cannot guarantee that these backup systems and procedures will operate satisfactorily in an emergency. Should we experience a prolonged failure, it could seriously jeopardize our ability to continue operations. In particular, should a significant service interruption occur, our ongoing customers may choose a different provider, and our reputation may be damaged, reducing our attractiveness to new customers. We may not be successful in the legal proceedings currently pending. The Company is a party to lawsuits and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of its businesses. An adverse outcome in, or any settlement of, these or other lawsuits could result in significant costs. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Risk Relating To Chile A downturn in the Chilean economy may adversely affect Telefónica Chile. Nearly all of Telefónica Chile’s customers are Chilean companies or individuals, and substantially all of Telefónica Chile’s operations are located in Chile. For these reasons, the results of the Company’s operations and its financial condition are sensitive to, and dependent upon, the level of economic activity in Chile. Historically, growth in the Chilean telecommunications industry has been tied to the state of Chile’s economy, particularly levels of consumer spending and demand. An economic slowdown may negatively affect the Company business by a decrease in demand and higher customer nonpayment levels. The Company can give no assurance that Chile’s economy will continue to grow in the future, nor can it give assurances that future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy will not impair its ability to proceed with its business plan or materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. Developments in other emerging markets or in the global telecommunications market may adversely affect Telefónica Chile. Developments in the global telecommunications market and in other emerging markets, particularly in Latin America, may adversely affect the market for Telefónica Chile’s securities and the availability of foreign capital in Chile. The Company cannot predict whether events in other markets will adversely affect the price of, or market for, its securities. The Series A Common Stock of Telefónica Chile is a highly liquid stock in Chile, representing 3.3% of the local IPSA stock index, as of December 31, 2006. Therefore, the Company’s stock price is affected more rapidly and to a higher degree than most other Chilean stocks by upturns or downturns in the domestic and international markets. 10 Table of Contents The Company can give no assurance that negative developments in Latin America or other emerging markets will not occur or that such negative developments would not adversely affect the securities markets in which the Company’s securities trade or affect the Company’s access to sources of financing. An increase in inflation may adversely affect Telefónica Chile. Chile has experienced high levels of inflation in the past, although inflation has decreased in recent years. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and Telefónica Chile’s financial condition and results of operations. The rate of inflation as measured by changes in the Chilean consumer price index in the years 2002 , 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, was 2.8%, 1.1%, 2.4%, 3.7% and 2.6% respectively. Generally, high levels of inflation will adversely affect the Company’s financial condition to the extent that, during any given period: the Company’s average domestic inflation-indexed liabilities exceed its average domestic inflation-indexed assets; the Company’s average monetary assets exceed its average monetary liabilities. Any significant increase in the level of inflation in the future may adversely affect the performance of the Chilean economy and the operating results of the Company. Currency devaluations and foreign exchange fluctuations may adversely affect Telefónica Chile. Volatility of the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Chilean peso has been volatile in the past, including an approximate 9.8% nominal devaluation against the U.S. dollar during 2002, but in 2003, 2004 and 2005 the peso recorded a nominal appreciation against the U.S. dollar of 17.4%, 6.1% and 8.1%, respectively, versus the prior year. During 2006, the peso experienced a nominal devaluation of 3.9% . The main drivers of the volatility in the exchange rate in recent years have been the substantial devaluations in other Latin American markets, mainly Brazil, as well as general uncertainty and trade imbalance in global markets. In 2003, 2004 and 2005 Chilean peso appreciation was driven by improvement in Chilean economic indicators together with weakness in the US dollar. The value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. See “Item 3. Key Information-Selected Financial Data-Exchange Rates.” Historically, a significant portion of the Company’s indebtedness has been denominated in U.S. dollars, while a substantial part of its revenues and operating expenses has been denominated in pesos. If the peso’s value declines against the dollar, Telefónica Chile will need more pesos to repay the same amount of dollar-denominated debt. As a result, fluctuations in the Chilean peso to U.S. dollar exchange rate may affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, 66.7% of the Company’s interest-bearing debt was denominated in U.S. dollars and was fully hedged against exchange rate variations between the peso and the U.S. dollar through financial instruments such as forward exchange agreements and cross-currency swaps. The remaining 33.3% of the Company’s interest-bearing debt is UF or peso denominated and therefore not subject to exchange rate risk. The Company’s hedging policy against foreign exchange fluctuations is disclosed in “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Risk of Variations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.” Risk Relating To Our ADSs Controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments in Chile may adversely impact a holder of our ADSs’ ability to obtain and dispose of the shares of our common stock underlying its ADRs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents are generally subject to exchange control regulations that restrict the repatriation of investments and earnings from Chile. Our ADSs are subject to an ADR foreign investment contract among us, the depositary and the Central Bank of Chile which is intended to grant holders of our ADSs and the depositary access to Chile’s formal exchange market. See “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Rates.” Pursuant to current Chilean law, our ADR foreign investment contract may not be amended 11 Table of Contents unilaterally by the Central Bank of Chile. However, we cannot make any assurances that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of underlying shares of our common stock or the repatriation of the proceeds from the disposition of the underlying common stock could not be imposed in the future, nor can we assess the duration or impact of the restrictions if imposed. If for any reason, including changes to our ADR foreign investment contract or Chilean law, the depositary is unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends or other distributions in Chilean pesos. Transferees of shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADR facility will not be entitled to access to the formal exchange market unless the withdrawn shares are redeposited with the depositary. The relative illiquidity and volatility of Chilean securities markets could affect the price of our ADSs and common stock adversely. Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller and less liquid than the major securities markets in the United States. In addition, Chilean securities markets may be affected materially by developments in other emerging markets, particularly in other countries in South America. The low relative liquidity of the Chilean market may impair the ability of holders of ADSs to sell shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADS program into the Chilean market in the amount and at the price and time they wish to do so. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Law No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas (Chilean Corporations Law) and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common stock for cash, we grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. Since we are not obligated to elect to make a registration statement available with respect to such rights and the common stock, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise their preemptive rights. If a registration statement is not filed or an applicable exemption is not available, the depositary will sell holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. Holders of ADSs may have fewer and less well-defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos, or bylaws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Foreign Exchange risks may adversely affect the U.S. dollar amount of dividends payable to holders of our ADSs. Chilean trading in the shares of the common stock underlying ADSs is conducted in pesos. Our depositary bank will receive cash distributions that we make with respect to the shares underlying the ADSs in pesos. The depositary will then convert such pesos to U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate to make dividend and other distribution payments in respect to ADSs. If the Chilean peso depreciates against the US dollar, the value of the ADSs and the distributions ADS holders receive from the depositary may decrease. 