ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors we cannot control or cannot always predict. The following discussions, in addition to other factors addressed elsewhere in this report, highlight some of the factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from the past results or expected future results: • The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid change. Some competitors have advantages over us because of their longer operating histories, greater name recognition, or greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They could also devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products or services. Furthermore, mergers and acquisitions among other companies could intensify our existing competition or create new competitors with superior marketplace positions or technology advantages. • Our health information services face competition from numerous other companies and organizations, including commercial content providers and not-for-profit organizations. We also compete with providers of healthcare decision-support tools and online health management applications; wellness and disease management vendors; and health management offerings of health plans and their affiliates. • Our benefits management and administrative products compete with other providers of benefits management services, including those provided through payroll and other business outsourcers as well as human resource management systems providers. • Our agency management services face competition from other agency management providers and consulting firms. • We must make significant investments in our products and market development in anticipation of future market opportunities and conditions. If we are unable to make these investments or we are unsuccessful in obtaining future revenues and customer relationships from these investments, then our future operating results could be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents • We may be unable to successfully identify, acquire, manage or integrate other businesses into our infrastructure. Our long-term growth strategy includes acquiring additional businesses with complementary products, technologies or professional services. We may not be successful in acquiring other complementary businesses or assimilating the acquisitions, their personnel and their operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Future acquisitions may also cause us to incur expenses such as in-process research and development expenses, or write-offs of goodwill and capitalized software development costs, which may negatively affect our earnings. We cannot be certain that we will successfully overcome these risks with respect to any future acquisitions. In addition, we have historically paid a portion of the consideration for some of our acquisitions by issuing common stock. The issuance of additional common stock or other securities convertible into common stock in connection with future acquisitions would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. • Our online applications are designed to operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week, without interruption. However, we have experienced and expect that we will in the future experience interruptions and delays in services and availability from time to time. We rely on internal systems as well as third-party vendors, including data center providers and bandwidth providers, to provide our online services. We do not maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services. In the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with users. To operate without interruption, both we and our service providers must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures and crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential interruptions. • Any disruption in the network access or co-location services provided by these third-party providers or any failure of or by these third-party providers or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. We exercise little control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with users and adversely affect our brand and our business. • We could be subject to breach of warranty or other claims by clients if the software and systems we use to provide them contain errors or experience failures which could result in our inability to meet contractual performance standards or failure to meet expectations that our clients have for them. Clients may seek compensation from us or may seek to terminate their agreements with us, withhold payments due to us, seek refunds from us of part or all of the fees charged under those agreements or initiate litigation or other dispute resolution procedures as a result of such errors or failures. In addition, we could face breach of warranty or other claims by clients or additional development costs as a result of such errors or failures. Our software and systems are inherently complex and, despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that they are error free. • We attempt to limit, by contract, our liability to our clients for damages arising from our negligence, errors or mistakes. However, contractual limitations on liability may not be enforceable in certain circumstances or may otherwise not provide sufficient protection to us from liability for damages. We maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions. However, it is possible that claims could exceed the amount of our applicable insurance coverage, if any, or that this 8 Table of Contents coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against them would be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, negative publicity caused by these events may delay or hinder market acceptance of our services, including unrelated services. • We do not currently hold any patents on our technology and do not have any patent applications pending. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. Effectively policing against the unauthorized use of our technology is time consuming and costly, and we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business by making it easier for others to duplicate our services. • As the number of products in our industry increases and the functionality of these products overlap, content providers may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to current or future products, trademarks or other works of A.D.A.M. A claim of infringement against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management’s attention from our operations. An adverse determination against us could require us to enter into royalty arrangements or prevent us from offering our services. • We may be unable to attract new personnel or retain existing personnel, which would adversely affect the implementation of our overall business strategy. In order to promote the development of our target markets and retain our position in the marketplace, we will need to identify, attract and retain personnel with domain expertise in the functional areas of our business. Additionally, our success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our executive management team. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We will compete with other companies both within and outside our markets for such employees and we may be unable to attract and retain these employees. If we do not succeed, we may be unable to fully implement our growth and market development strategies and our business could be impacted. • As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. For example, the U.S. economy has recently been weakened due to many factors, including the credit market crisis, reduced credit availability, bank failures, slower economic activity, bankruptcies, increased unemployment, adverse business conditions, concerns about inflation and fear of a recession. If weakness in the economies of the U.S. and other countries persists, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition, customers purchasing fewer services than they have in the past, customers requesting longer payment terms, customers failing to pay amounts due and slower collections of accounts receivable. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow from operations. • The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption that reached unprecedented levels in 2009. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. While equity and debt markets have shown signs of recovery, if market disruption and volatility worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents • The Company may have to write-down the value of its goodwill if the equity market and the market price of the Company’s stock indicates the fair value of the assets acquired in the OnlineBenefits acquisition in 2006 are priced above the fair value. Goodwill and other intangibles are evaluated periodically using GAAP fair value rules, which are derived from the equity market and the Company’s stock prices. • We may be unable to obtain sufficient capital to pursue our growth and market development strategies, which would hurt our financial results. Our market capitalization, by its size and liquidity, may limit our ability to sell additional stock. If we are unable to raise necessary capital, our future strategies may be limited and our future results could be affected. • We rely on financial institutions for substantial amounts of credit financing, including both currently outstanding loans and unused line of credit facilities, to provide funding for our operations. We may not be able to maintain these existing relations or we may not meet the existing financial covenants that would require us to significantly alter our strategies and operations and may impact our financial results in the future. • We can offer no assurance that the disruption of reseller or distribution channels or the loss of any significant customer will not materially adversely affect our business by reducing revenues, profits and cash flow. • The technology that we use to deliver our products is rapidly changing and we may be unable to convert our platforms to new technologies on a timely basis or be required to incur substantial additional costs to accomplish such changes and upgrades. We rely on the Internet and on third parties to provide connections to our customers and changes in regulations, prices, tax status or availability could adversely affect our operating results. • Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing information services and management solutions and to introduce new features and content. The success of any enhancement or new product depends on several factors, including timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. Any new feature or content that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new features or content or to enhance our existing information services and management solutions to meet customer requirements, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. • We face technological challenges in our ability to deliver information in the rapidly changing healthcare industry, which may limit our ability to maintain existing customers or attract new customers. We believe that health information will become more customized to an individual’s personal health management needs. As a result, we will need to have adequate technology infrastructure that will allow us to deliver in a cost-effective manner portions of our content assets based on each customer’s requirements. • We face potential risks and financial liabilities associated with obtaining and transmitting personal account information that includes social security numbers and individual health-related information. Information may be accessed by outsiders by breaching our security systems or by inappropriate actions of our personnel. Our risks would include damage of our reputation, additional costs to address and remediate any problems encountered as well as litigation and potential financial penalties. • Our stock price is extremely volatile and could decline significantly. We may not be able to meet our financial projections or market expectations of our results on a quarterly or longer period and that could adversely affect our stock price. Since our initial public offering in 1995, there has been significant volatility in the price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will be maintained or that the volume of trading in our shares will not decrease. Furthermore, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities 10 Table of Contents class action claims frequently are brought against the subject company. To the extent that the market price of our shares falls dramatically in any period of time, shareholders may bring claims, with or without merit, against us. Such litigation would be expensive to defend and would divert management attention and resources regardless of outcome. • We must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which requires us to incur expenses associated with the development and testing of our internal controls. There can be no assurance that we will not have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls or that we will not encounter higher than anticipated disruptions and expenses associated with compliance that may adversely affect our earnings and our share price. • We have adopted certain anti-takeover provisions that may deter a takeover. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may deter a takeover, including a takeover on terms that many of our shareholders might consider favorable. These provisions include the authority of our board of directors to issue common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), preferences, privileges and restrictions of each series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders; the existence of large amounts of authorized but unissued common stock and preferred stock; staggered, three-year terms for our board of directors; and advance notice requirements for board of directors nominations and for shareholder proposals. The rights and preferences of any series of preferred stock could include a preference over the common stock on the distribution of our assets upon a liquidation or sale of our company, preferential dividends, redemption rights, the right to elect one or more directors and other voting rights. The rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future may adversely affect the rights of the holders of the common stock. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. In addition, certain provisions of Georgia law and our stock option plan may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or unsolicited acquisition proposals. • A significant number of unissued shares are available for future sale and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If our shareholders, option holders, or warrant holders exercise their rights to sell substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. Given the unpredictable transaction volumes for our common stock, the sale of a significant amount of these shares at any given time could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or otherwise be highly volatile. Such sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price when we deem conditions to be more favorable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 