Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a description of some of the principal risks inherent in our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition in the future. 13 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain current operations is dependent upon sustaining profitable operations or obtaining financing in the future. We have incurred significant losses since inception. For example, for the fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003 we incurred net losses of $1,857,000, $1,319,000 and $348,000 respectively. We will have a continuing need for new infusions of cash if we continue to incur losses in the future. We plan to increase our revenues through increased direct sales and marketing efforts on existing products and achieving regulatory approval for other products. If our direct sales and marketing efforts are unsuccessful or we are unable to achieve regulatory approval for our products, we will be unable to significantly increase our revenues. We believe that if we are unable to generate sufficient funds from sales or from debt or equity issuances to maintain our current expenditure rate, it will be necessary to significantly reduce our operations, including our sales and marketing efforts and research and development. If we are required to significantly reduce our operations, our business will be harmed. Changes in our business, financial performance or the market for our products may require us to seek additional sources of financing, which could include short-term debt, long-term debt or equity. Although in the past we have been successful in obtaining financing, there is a risk that we may be unsuccessful in obtaining financing in the future on terms acceptable to us and that we will not have sufficient cash to fund our continued operations. Our revenues and operating income may be constrained: • if commercial adoption of our TMR laser systems by healthcare providers in the United States declines; • until such time, if ever, as we obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals for our PMC laser systems; and • for an uncertain period of time after such approvals are obtained. We may not be able to successfully market our products if third party reimbursement for the procedures performed with our products is not available for our health care provider customers. Few individuals are able to pay directly for the costs associated with the use of our products. In the United States, hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers that purchase medical devices generally rely on third party payors, such as Medicare, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the procedure in which the medical device is being used. Effective July 1, 1999, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), formerly the Health Care Financing Administration, commenced Medicare coverage for TMR procedures performed with FDA approved devices. Hospitals and physicians are eligible to receive Medicare reimbursement covering 100% of the costs for TMR procedures. If CMS were to materially reduce or terminate Medicare coverage of TMR procedures, our business and results of operation could be harmed. In July 2004, CMS convened the Medicare Advisory Committee (“MCAC”) to review the clinical evidence regarding laser myocardial revascularization as a treatment option for Medicare patients. The MCAC meeting was a non-binding public hearing to consider the body of scientific evidence concerning the safety and efficacy of laser myocardial revascularization and to provide advice and recommendations to the CMS on clinical issues. The MCAC reviewed more than six years of clinical evidence on laser myocardial revascularization and heard testimony from a group of leading physicians regarding TMR. Subsequent to that public hearing, CMS has not initiated a pending National Coverage Determination relating to laser myocardial revascularization. In September 2004, we confirmed that CMS had no current intention to initiate any changes in the current national coverage decision and related memoranda regarding TMR. As PMC has not been approved by the FDA, the CMS has not approved reimbursement for PMC. If we obtain FDA approval for PMC in the future and CMS does not provide reimbursement, our ability to successfully market and sell our PMC products may be affected. Even though Medicare beneficiaries appear to account for a majority of all patients treated with the TMR procedure, the remaining patients are beneficiaries of private insurance and private health plans. We have 14 Table of Contents limited experience to date with the acceptability of our TMR procedures for reimbursement by private insurance and private health plans. If private insurance and private health plans do not provide reimbursement, our business will suffer. If we obtain the necessary foreign regulatory registrations or approvals for our products, market acceptance in international markets would be dependent, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement is a significant factor considered by hospitals in determining whether to acquire new equipment. A hospital is more inclined to purchase new equipment if third-party reimbursement can be obtained. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country. They include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. Although we expect to seek international reimbursement approvals, any such approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. Failure to receive international reimbursement approvals could hurt market acceptance of our TMR and PMC products in the international markets in which such approvals are sought, which would significantly reduce international revenue. We may fail to obtain required regulatory approvals in the United States to market our PMC laser system. The FDA has not approved our PMC laser system for any application in the United States. In July 2001, the FDA Advisory Panel recommended against approval of PMC for public sale and use in the United States. In February 2003, the FDA granted an independent panel review of our pending PMA application for PMC by the Medical Devices Dispute Resolution Panel (“MDDRP”). In July 2003, the FDA agreed to review additional data in support of our PMA supplement for PMC under the structure of an interactive review process between us and the FDA review team The independent panel review by the MDDRP was cancelled in lieu of the interactive review, but the FDA has agreed to reschedule the MDDRP hearing in the future, if the dispute cannot be resolved. In August 2004, we met with the FDA and agreed on the steps needed to design and initiate a new clinical trial to confirm the safety and efficacy of PMC. In January 2005, we again met with the agency and agreed on major trial parameters. We came to agreement with the FDA on a final trial design and received formal FDA approval in January 2006. We are currently working to understand the specific direct and indirect costs and are initiating our pursuit of a corporate partner in the interventional cardiology arena. There can be no assurance, however, that we will receive a favorable determination from the FDA. We will not be able to derive any revenue from the sale of our PMC system in the United States until such time, if any, that the FDA approves the device. Such inability to realize revenue from sales of our PMC device in the United States may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may incur impairment charges on long-lived assets if future events indicate asset values my not be recoverable. In January 1999, we entered into an agreement with PLC Systems, Inc., which granted us non-exclusive worldwide use of certain PLC patents. In return, we paid PLC a license fee totaling $2,500,000 over a forty-month period. The present value of the payments of $2,300,000 was recorded as an asset and is included in other assets. The PLC patents are valuable to our PMC product line. The PMC product line is not approved for sale in the United States but is sold internationally. If PMC product sales decline in the future, we may suffer an impairment of the asset’s value. We may fail to obtain required regulatory approvals in the United States to market our new minimally invasive and robotically assisted handpieces. Both the PEARL Robotic 5.0 and Thoracoscopic 8.0 Minimally Invasive Delivery Systems have achieved CE Mark and Health Canada approval, and are part of an FDA approved IDE study that is underway to validate the safety and feasibility of these advanced delivery systems and the minimally invasive approach. The PEARL 5.0 handpiece utilizes a robotically assisted technique in an FDA approved trial of advanced laser delivery systems to provide the significant patient benefits of Holmium: YAG TMR via 15 Table of Contents minimally invasive port access. The trial is a single arm consecutive series (open label) validation study of the advanced port access delivery system. The PEARL 8.0 handpiece utilizes a thoracoscopic technique in an FDA approved trial of advanced laser delivery systems to provide the significant patient benefits of Holmium: YAG TMR via minimally invasive port access. The trial is a single arm consecutive series (open label) validation study of the advanced port access delivery system. We will not be able to derive any revenue from the sale of our new minimally invasive and robotically assisted handpieces in the United States until such time, if any, that the FDA approves these devices. Such inability to realize revenue from sales of these devices in the United States may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In the future, the FDA could restrict the current uses of our TMR product and thereby restrict our ability to generate revenues. We currently derive approximately 98% of our revenues from our TMR product. The FDA has approved this product for sale and use by physicians in the United States. At the request of the FDA, we are currently conducting post-market surveillance of our TMR product. If we should fail to meet the requirements mandated by the FDA or fail to complete our post-market surveillance study in an acceptable time period, the FDA could withdraw its approval for the sale and use of our TMR product by physicians in the United States. Additionally, although we are not aware of any safety concerns during our on-going post-market surveillance of our TMR product, if concerns over the safety of our TMR product were to arise, the FDA could possibly restrict the currently approved uses of our TMR product. In the future, if the FDA were to withdraw its approval or restrict the range of uses for which our TMR product can be used by physicians in the United States, such as restricting TMR’s use with the coronary artery bypass grafting procedure, either outcome could lead to reduced or no sales of our TMR product in the United States and our business could be materially and adversely affected. We must comply with FDA manufacturing standards or face fines or other penalties including suspension of production. We are required to demonstrate compliance with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices regulations if we market devices in the United States or manufacture finished devices in the United States. The FDA inspects manufacturing facilities on a regular basis to determine compliance. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory requirements, we can be subject to: • fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; • recalls or seizures of products; • total or partial suspensions of production; and • criminal prosecutions. The impact on us of any such failure to comply would depend on the impact of the remedy imposed on us. We may fail to comply with international regulatory requirements and could be subject to regulatory delays, fines or other penalties. Regulatory requirements in foreign countries for international sales of medical devices often vary from country to country. In addition, the FDA must approve the export of devices to certain countries. The occurrence and related impact of the following factors would harm our business: • delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, foreign regulatory approvals or clearances; • the loss of previously obtained approvals or clearances; or • the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. To market in Europe, a manufacturer must obtain the certifications necessary to affix to its products the CE Marking. The CE Marking is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and 16 Table of Contents compliance with applicable European medical device directives. In order to obtain and to maintain a CE Marking, a manufacturer must be in compliance with the appropriate quality assurance provisions of the International Standards Organization and obtain certification of its quality assurance systems by a recognized European Union notified body. However, certain individual countries within Europe require further approval by their national regulatory agencies. We have completed CE Mark registration for all of our products in accordance with the implementation of various medical device directives in the European Union. Failure to maintain the right to affix the CE Marking or other requisite approvals could prohibit us from selling our products in member countries of the European Union or elsewhere. Any enforcement action by international regulatory authorities with respect to past or future regulatory noncompliance could cause our business to suffer. Noncompliance with international regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action such as prohibitions against us marketing our products in the European Union, which would significantly reduce international revenue. We may not be able to meet future product demand on a timely basis and may be subject to delays and interruptions to product shipments because we depend on single source third party suppliers and manufacturers. We purchase certain critical products and components for lasers and disposable handpieces from single sources. In addition, we are vulnerable to delays and interruptions, for reasons out of our control, because we outsource the manufacturing of our products to third parties. We may experience harm to our business if we cannot timely provide lasers to our customers or if our outsourcing suppliers have difficulties supplying our needs for products and components. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts. As a result, our sources are not obligated to continue to provide these critical products or components to us. Although we have identified alternative suppliers and manufacturers, a lengthy process would be required to qualify them as additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturers. Also, it is possible some of our suppliers or manufacturers could have difficulty meeting our needs if demand for our TMR and PMC laser systems were to increase rapidly or significantly. We believe that we have an adequate supply of lasers to meet our expected demand for the next twelve months. However, if demand for our TMR laser is greater than we currently anticipate and there is a delay in obtaining production capacity, unless we are able to obtain lasers originally placed through our loaned laser program and no longer utilized by a hospital, we may not be able to meet the demand for our TMR laser. In addition, any defect or malfunction in the laser or other products provided by our suppliers and manufacturers could cause delays in regulatory approvals or adversely affect product acceptance. Further, we cannot predict: • if materials and products obtained from outside suppliers and manufacturers will always be available in adequate quantities to meet our future needs; or • whether replacement suppliers and/or manufacturers can be qualified on a timely basis if our current suppliers and/or manufacturers are unable to meet our needs for any reason. Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management and operational infrastructure affecting our ability to meet any increased demand for our products and possibly having an adverse effect on our operating results. Since 2001 we have attempted to minimize our workforce, research and development expenses, and other operating expenses in effort to keep our cost structure more in line with our revenues. To the extent we are successful in expanding our business, such growth may place a significant strain on our limited personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolving growth of our business presents numerous risks and challenges, including: • the dependence on the growth of the market for our TMR and PMC systems; • our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing clinical adoption of the TMR procedure; 17 Table of Contents • the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; • domestic and international regulatory developments; • rapid technological change; • the highly competitive nature of the medical devices industry; and • the risk of entering emerging markets in which we have limited or no direct experience. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we may need to obtain additional funding to improve information systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage our employees, and such funding may not be available in sufficient quantities, if at all. If we are not able to manage these activities and implement these strategies successfully to expand to meet any increased demand, our operating results could suffer. Our operating results are expected to fluctuate and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results may not indicate future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter and are expected to continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter in future periods. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Due to the emerging nature of the markets in which we compete, forecasting operating results is difficult and unreliable. It is likely or possible that our operating results for a future quarter will fall below the expectations of public market analysts that may cover our stock and investors. When this occurred in the past, the price of our common stock fell substantially, and if this occurs in the future, the price of our common stock may fall again, perhaps substantially. Until May 2006, our stock was listed on the OTC Bulletin Board and is currently listed on the Pink Sheets which, in either case, may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Effective April 3, 2003 our common stock was delisted from The Nasdaq SmallCap Market and became quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board on the same day. In May of 2006, our common stock was delisted from the OTC Bulletin Board as a result of our failure to timely file our periodic reports. The Pink Sheets and the OTC Bulletin Board are significantly more limited markets in comparison to the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. The listing of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board or the Pink Sheets will likely result in a significantly less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could ultimately further depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We expect to seek reinstatement of our common stock for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board in the near future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully obtain or maintain such a listing. To the extent we are no able to obtain or maintain a listing on the OTC Bulletin Board, the liquidity and trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital in the future would be adversely affected. The trading prices of many high technology companies, and in particular medical device companies, have been volatile which may result in large fluctuations in the price of our common stock. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many high technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of many of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of medical device companies could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. 18 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, during the 52-week period ended June 30, 2006, the closing prices of our common stock as reported on the OTC Bulletin Board or Pink Sheets ranged from a high of $0.65 per share to a low of $0.25 per share. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • the timing and amount of conversions and subsequent sales of common stock issuable upon conversion of outstanding convertible promissory notes and warrants; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; • additions or terminations of coverage of our common stock by securities analysts; • statements by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; • conditions or trends in the medical device industry; • the lack of liquidity in the market for our common stock; and • changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other medical device companies. The prices at which our common stock trades will affect our ability to raise capital, which may have an adverse affect on our ability to fund our operations. We face competition from products of our competitors which could limit market acceptance of our products and render our products obsolete. The market for TMR laser systems is competitive. We currently compete with PLC Systems, a publicly traded company which uses a CO(2) laser and an articulated mechanical arm in its TMR products. Edwards Lifesciences, a well known, publicly traded provider of products and technologies to treat cardiovascular disease, has assumed full sales and marketing responsibility in the U.S. for PLC’s TMR Heart Laser 2 System and associated kits pursuant to a co-marketing agreement between the two companies executed in January 2001. Through its significantly greater financial and human resources, including a well-established and extensive sales representative network, we believe Edwards has the potential to market to a greater number of hospitals and doctors that we currently can. If PLC, or any new competitor, is more effective than we are in developing new products and procedures and marketing existing and future products similar to ours, our business may suffer. The market for TMR laser systems is characterized by rapid technical innovation. Our current or future competitors may succeed in developing TMR products or procedures that: • are more effective than our products; • are more effectively marketed than our products; or • may render our products or technology obsolete. If we obtain the FDA’s approval for our PMC laser system, we will face competition for market acceptance and market share for that product. Our ability to compete may depend in significant part on the timing of introduction of competitive products into the market, and will be affected by the pace, relative to competitors, at which we are able to: • develop products; • complete clinical testing and regulatory approval processes; 19 Table of Contents • obtain third party reimbursement acceptance; and • supply adequate quantities of the product to the market. Third party intellectual property rights may limit the development and protection of our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success is dependent in large part on our ability to: • obtain patent protection for our products and processes; • preserve our trade secrets and proprietary technology; and • operate without infringing upon the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Certain competitors and potential competitors of ours have obtained United States patents covering technology that could be used for certain TMR and PMC procedures. We do not know if such competitors, potential competitors or others have filed and hold international patents covering other TMR or PMC technology. In addition, international patents may not be interpreted the same as any counterpart United States patents. While we periodically review the scope of our patents and other relevant patents of which we are aware, the question of patent infringement involves complex legal and factual issues. Any conclusion regarding infringement may not be consistent with the resolution of any such issues by a court. Costly litigation may be necessary to protect intellectual property rights. We may have to engage in time consuming and costly litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or to determine the proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may become subject to patent infringement claims or litigation, or interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions. Defending and prosecuting intellectual property suits, United States Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time-consuming. We may be required to litigate further to: • enforce our issued patents; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or interference proceedings will result in substantial expense and significant diversion of effort by technical and management personnel. If the results of such litigation or interference proceedings are adverse to us, then the results may: • subject us to significant liabilities to third parties; • require us to seek licenses from third parties; • prevent us from selling our products in certain markets or at all; or • require us to modify our products. Although patent and intellectual property disputes regarding medical devices are often settled through licensing and similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. 20 Table of Contents Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. This would harm our business. The United States patent laws have been amended to exempt physicians, other health care professionals, and affiliated entities from infringement liability for medical and surgical procedures performed on patients. We are not able to predict if this exemption will materially affect our ability to protect our proprietary methods and procedures. We rely on patent and trade secret laws, which are complex and may be difficult to enforce. The validity and breadth of claims in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. Issued patent or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent application may not exclude competitors or may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, patents issued or licensed to us may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our competitors: • have not developed or will not develop similar products; • will not duplicate our products; or • will not design around any patents issued to or licensed by us. Because patent applications in the United States were historically maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, we cannot be certain that: • others did not first file applications for inventions covered by our pending patent applications; or • we will not infringe any patents that may issue to others on such applications. We may suffer losses from product liability claims if our products cause harm to patients. We are exposed to potential product liability claims and product recalls. These risks are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. We could be subject to product liability claims if the use of our TMR or PMC laser systems is alleged to have caused adverse effects on a patient or such products are believed to be defective. Our products are designed to be used in life-threatening situations where there is a high risk of serious injury or death. We are not aware of any material side effects or adverse events arising from the use of our TMR product. Though we are in the process of responding to the FDA’s Circulatory Devices Panel’s recent recommendation against approval of our PMC product because of concerns over the safety of the device and the data regarding adverse events in the clinical trials, we believe there are no material side effects or adverse events arising from the use of our PMC product. When being clinically investigated, it is not uncommon for new surgical or interventional procedures to result in a higher rate of complications in the treated population of patients as opposed to those reported in the control group. In light of this, we believe that the difference in the rates of complications between the treated groups and the control groups in the clinical trials for our PMC product are not statistically significant, which is why we believe that there are no material side effects or material adverse events arising from the use of our PMC product. Any regulatory clearance for commercial sale of these products will not remove these risks. Any failure to comply with the FDA’s good manufacturing practices or other regulations could hurt our ability to defend against product liability lawsuits. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover product liability claims against us. Our product liability insurance may not be adequate for any future product liability problems or continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 21 Table of Contents If we were held liable for a product liability claim or series of claims in excess of our insurance coverage, such liability could harm our business and financial condition. We maintain insurance against product liability claims in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. We may require increased product liability coverage as sales of approved products increase and as additional products are commercialized. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected as a result of claims made by our former Chief Executive Officer. On July 12, 2006, we terminated Michael Quinn as our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President in accordance with the terms of his employment agreement. Mr. Quinn has subsequently alleged wrongful termination and a breach of his employment agreement and has indicated that he believes he is entitled to monetary damages in excess of $4,750,000 plus other, non-economic damages, including punitive damages. As of August 18, 2006, we had not been informed of the initiation of any formal legal proceedings. To the extent Mr. Quinn initiates legal proceedings our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by the costs and management time and resources required to defend such action. In addition, although we believe Mr. Quinn’s claims are without merit, to the extent that Mr. Quinn prevails in any legal proceeding, the payment of any judgment could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend heavily on key personnel and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee or if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team and could impair our ability to effectively operate and grow our business. For example, in April 2005, Christine Ocampo, our former Chief Financial Officer, resigned, and in July 2006 we terminated the employment of Michael Quinn, our former Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board. We depend on the skills and abilities of our key management level employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by further turnover. To the extent we are unable to identify or retain a suitable management personnel, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. We sell our products internationally which subjects us to specific risks of transacting business in foreign countries. In future quarters, international sales may become a significant portion of our revenue if our products become more widely used outside of the United States. Our international revenue is subject to the following risks, the occurrence of any of which could harm our business: • foreign currency fluctuations; • economic or political instability; • foreign tax laws; • shipping delays; • various tariffs and trade regulations; • restrictions and foreign medical regulations; 22 Table of Contents • customs duties, export quotas or other trade restrictions; and • difficulty in protecting intellectual property rights. If an Event of Default Occurs Under the Convertible Note Issued to Laurus, It Could Seriously Harm Our Operations. On October 26, 2004, we issued a $6,000,000 secured convertible term note to Laurus, of which $1,665,000 remained outstanding as of June 30, 2006. Pursuant to the terms of the note, an “event of default” includes a suspension of trading of our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board which remains uncured within thirty (30) days of notice of the suspension. To the extent that the delisting of our stock in May 2006 is deemed a “suspension of trading,” the Company could be deemed to be in default of its obligations under the note. If an event of default occurs under the note, interest on the note would accrue at the default rate which is the then current prime rate plus 12% per annum until the default is cured. In addition, the holder of the note will have the right to accelerate and declare it immediately due and payable and exercise its rights as a secured creditor under applicable law and the security agreement with us, including the right to foreclose upon our assets that secure the note, which constitute substantially all of our assets. In addition to the requirements that we maintain our listing on the OTC Bulletin Board, the note and related agreements contain numerous events of default which include: • A failure to pay interest and principal payments when due; • a breach by us of any material covenant or term or condition of the note or any agreement made in connection therewith; • a breach by us of any material representation or warranty made in the note or in any agreement made in connection therewith; • if we make an assignment for the benefit of our creditors, or a receiver or trustee is appointed for us; • any form of bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding is instituted by or against us and is not dismissed within 60 days; • any money judgment entered or filed against us for more than $50,000 and remains unresolved for 30 days; • our failure to timely deliver shares of common stock when due upon conversions of the note; • we experience an event of default under any other debt obligations; and • we experience a loss, damage or encumbrance upon collateral securing the Laurus debt which is valued at more than $100,000 and is not timely mitigated. If we default on the note and the holder demands all payments due and payable, the cash required to pay such amounts would most likely come out of working capital and non current assets, which may not be sufficient to repay the amounts due. In addition, since we rely on our working capital for our day to day operations, such a default on the note could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition to such extent that we are forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations. Further, our obligations under the note are secured by all of our assets. Failure to fulfill our obligations under the note and related agreements could lead to loss of these assets, which would be detrimental to our operations. We may continue to incur significant non-operating, non-cash charges resulting from changes in the fair value of warrants and derivatives. In October 2004, we entered into a Secured Convertible Term Note agreement with Laurus Funds. Pursuant to the Note agreement, a warrant totaling 2.6 million was issued to Laurus. This warrant, along with multiple embedded derivatives in the agreement, have been recorded at their relative fair value at the inception date of the agreement, October 27, 2004, and will continue to be recorded at fair value at each 23 Table of Contents subsequent balance sheet date. Any change in value between reporting periods will be recorded as a non-operating, non-cash charge at each reporting date. The impact of these non-operating, non-cash charges could have an adverse effect on our stock price in the future. The fair value of the warrant and derivatives is tied in large part to our stock price. If our stock price increases between reporting periods, the warrant and derivatives become more valuable. As such, there is no way to forecast what the non-operating, non-cash charges will be in the future or what the future impact will be on our financial statements. The restrictions on our activities contained in the Laurus financing documents could negatively impact our ability to obtain financing from other sources. The Laurus financing documents restrict us from obtaining additional debt financing, subject to certain specified exceptions. To the extent that Laurus declined to approve a debt financing that does not otherwise qualify for an exception to the consent requirement, we would be unable to obtain such debt financing. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, we have granted to Laurus a right of first refusal to provide additional financing to us in the event that we propose to engage in additional debt financing or to sell any of our equity securities. Laurus’s right of first refusal could act as a deterrent to third parties which may be interested in providing us with debt financing or purchasing our equity securities. To the extent that such a financing is required for us to conduct our operations, these restrictions could materially adversely impact our ability to achieve our operational objectives. Low market prices for our common stock would result in greater dilution to our shareholders, and could negatively impact our ability to convert the Laurus debt into equity The market price of our common stock significantly impacts the extent to which we are permitted to convert the unrestricted and restricted portions of the Laurus debt into shares of our common stock. The lower the market price of our common stock as of the respective times of conversion, the more shares we will need to issue to Laurus to convert the principal and interest payments then due on the unrestricted portion of the debt. If the market price of our common stock falls below certain thresholds, we will be unable to convert any such repayments of principal and interest into equity, and we will be forced to make such repayments in cash, which we currently forecast will be required to sustain our operations. Our operations could be materially adversely impacted if we are forced to make repeated cash payments on the unrestricted portion of the Laurus debt. Further, prior to the full repayment of the unrestricted portion of the Laurus debt, we will only be able to require conversions of the $3,000,000 restricted cash amount to the extent the market price of our common stock exceeds certain levels. To the extent that the market price of our common stock does not reach such specified levels, we will be not be entitled to take possession of any of the restricted cash during the term of the Laurus note. The restricted portion of the debt will continue to accrue interest during the entire period that we are unable to require conversion. In addition, to the extent that conversions of the restricted portion of the debt are not effected during the term of the note, we have only a limited ability to convert a specified amount of the restricted debt (subject to meeting certain minimum market price thresholds and volume requirements), and we will be required to repay the remaining restricted principal and interest in cash. In May 2006, the Company repaid $2,417,000 of the Note’s outstanding principal amount out of the restricted cash account created for the benefit of Laurus and the Company and related interest of $314,000. In connection with the repayment, the Company was required to pay a prepayment penalty of $483,000 out of the Company’s unrestricted cash. Therefore, the risks associated to the restricted debt are no longer applicable. Future sales of our common stock could lower our stock price. The sale of our common stock by the holders of the Laurus debt upon conversion of all or any portion of the Laurus debt could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, if our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of options or warrants or shares issued in previous financings, in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. If these sales were to occur, we may also find it more difficult to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate and desirable. 24 Table of Contents In the future, we may issue additional shares in public or private offerings. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock would have on the market price of our common stock. We expect that Laurus will generally promptly sell any shares into which the Laurus indebtedness is converted, and that the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of such sales. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation as well as our rights agreement could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change of control. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, subject to any limitations prescribed by law, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without shareholder approval. On August 17, 2001 we adopted a shareholder rights plan, as amended, and under the rights plan, our board of directors declared a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 30, 2001. Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, in the event (a) any person or group acquires 15% or more of our then outstanding shares of voting stock (or 21% or more of our then outstanding shares of voting stock in the case of State of Wisconsin Investment Board), (b) a tender offer or exchange offer is commenced that would result in a person or group acquiring 15% or more of our then outstanding voting stock, (c) we are acquired in a merger or other business combination in which we are not the surviving corporation or (d) 50% or more of our consolidated assets or earning power are sold, then the holders of our common stock are entitled to exercise the rights under the Rights Plan, which include, based on the type of event which has occurred, (i) rights to purchase preferred shares from us, (ii) rights to purchase common shares from us having a value twice that of the underlying exercise price, and (iii) rights to acquire common stock of the surviving corporation or purchaser having a market value of twice that of the exercise price. The rights expire on August 17, 2011, and may be redeemed prior thereto at $0.001 per right under certain circumstances. The Board’s ability to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval while providing desirable flexibility in connection with financings, acquisitions and other corporate purposes, and the existence of the rights plan might discourage, delay or prevent a change in the ownership of our company or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. To the extent that such interpretations or changes in policies negatively impact our reported financial results, our results of stock price could be adversely affected. Recent rulemaking by the Financial Accounting Standards Board will require us to expense equity compensation given to our employees and could significantly harm our operating results and may reduce our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation to attract and retain employees. We historically have used stock options as a component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted changes that will require companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives beginning in the first quarter ending March 31, 2006. This accounting change will reduce our reported earnings and may require us to reduce the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which may make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Each of these results could materially and adversely affect our business. 25 Table of Contents We currently do not have adequate internal controls over financial reporting as noted in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures and we are exposed to risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and will require our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We are developing a program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements on a sustained basis. Companies do not have significant experience in complying with these requirements on an ongoing and sustained basis. As a result, we expect to continue to incur increased expense and to devote management resources to Section 404 compliance. As noted in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective due to a material weakness. If the material weakness is not remediated, investor perceptions of Cardiogenesis may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 