Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report and our other SEC filings, in considering our business and prospects. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our success is dependent upon the success of FC2. We expect to derive virtually all of our future revenues from sales of our only product, FC2. The ultimate level of demand for FC2 is uncertain, and we may not be able to grow our business if demand for FC2 does not increase. We also depend on public sector agencies around the world to continue to include FC2 in their STI prevention and family planning programs; and on our commercial sector distribution partners to successfully market and distribute FC2. A decline in demand for FC2 would reduce our net revenues and profitability. Our business may be affected by contracting risks with government and other international health agencies. Our customers are primarily large international agencies and government health agencies which purchase and distribute FC2 for use in family planning and HIV/AIDS prevention programs. Sales to such agencies may be subject to government contracting risks, including the appropriations process and funding priorities, potential bureaucratic delays in awarding contracts, process errors, politics or other pressures, and the risk that contracts may be subject to cancellation, delay or restructuring. These contracting risks may cause significant quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results and could adversely affect our net revenues and profitability. Budget issues and spending cuts affecting government health agencies may also adversely affect demand for our product and our net revenues. We depend on three major customers for a significant portion of our net revenues. The Company's three largest customers currently are UNFPA, USAID and Sekunjalo. UNFPA accounted for 62 percent of unit sales in fiscal 2013, 40 percent of unit sales in fiscal 2012, and 25 percent of unit sales in fiscal 2011. USAID accounted for less than 10 percent of unit sales in fiscal 2013, 25 percent of unit sales in fiscal 2012, and 26 percent of unit sales in fiscal 2011. Sekunjalo accounted for less than 10 percent of unit sales in fiscal 2013, 20 percent of unit sales in 2012 and less than 10 percent of unit sales in fiscal 2011. An adverse change in our relationship with our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and profitability. 13 Since we sell product in foreign markets, we are subject to international business risks that could adversely affect our operating results. Our international operations subject us to risks, including: · economic and political instability; · changes in international regulatory requirements, import duties or export restrictions, including limitations on the repatriation of earnings; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws; · price controls and other restrictions on foreign currency; and · difficulties in our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies. Any of these risks might disrupt the supply of our products, increase our expenses or decrease our net revenues. The cost of compliance with trade and foreign tax laws increases our expenses, and actual or alleged violations of such laws could result in enforcement actions or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. Increases in the cost of raw materials, labor and other costs used to manufacture our product could increase our cost of sales and reduce our gross margins. We may experience increased costs of raw materials, including the nitrile polymer used in FC2, and increased labor costs. We may not be able to pass along such cost increases to our customers. As a result, an increase in the cost of raw materials, labor or other costs associated with manufacturing FC2 could increase our cost of sales and reduce our gross margins. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Because we manufacture FC2 in a leased facility located in Malaysia, a portion of our operating costs are denominated in a foreign currency. While a material portion of our future sales of FC2 are likely to be in foreign markets, all sales of FC2 are denominated in U.S. dollars. Manufacturing costs are subject to normal currency risks associated with fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Malaysian ringgit (MYR) relative to the U.S. dollar. Historically, we have not hedged our foreign currency risk. We rely primarily on a single facility to manufacture FC2, which subjects us to the risk of supply disruptions. We manufacture FC2 in a single leased facility located in Malaysia. Difficulties encountered by this facility, such as fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of a contagious disease, could halt or disrupt production at the facility, delay the completion of orders or cause the cancellation of orders. Any of these risks could increase our expenses or reduce our net revenues. Our product is subject to substantial government regulation which exposes us to risks that we will be fined or exposed to civil or criminal liability, receive negative publicity or be prevented from selling our product. FC2 is subject to regulation by the FDA under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and by foreign regulatory agencies. Under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, medical devices must receive FDA clearance before they can be sold. FDA regulations also require us to adhere to "Good Manufacturing Practices," which include testing, quality control and documentation procedures. Our compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could: · be fined or exposed to civil or criminal liability; · face suspensions of clearances, seizures or recalls of products or operating restrictions; 14 · receive negative publicity; or · be prohibited from selling our product in the U.S. or in foreign markets. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions may negatively affect our business. If the recent decline in general economic conditions in the U.S. and other global markets in which we operate continues, or if consumers fear that economic conditions will continue to decline, consumers may reduce expenditures for products such as our product. Adverse changes may occur as a result of adverse global or regional economic conditions, fluctuating oil prices, declining consumer confidence, unemployment, fluctuations in stock markets, contraction of credit availability or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. These changes may negatively affect the sales of our product, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, or increase costs associated with producing and distributing our product. In addition, a substantial portion of the sales of FC2 are made in the public market to government agencies, including USAID and other government agencies around the world. Worsening economic conditions as well as budget deficits and austerity measures may cause pressures on government budgets and result in a reduction in purchases of FC2 from us by governmental agencies. Because our product faces significant competition from other products, including other female condoms as well as the male condom, we may not be able to achieve anticipated growth levels or profit margins. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could have a negative effect on our net revenues, cash flows and profit margins. Some parties have developed and marketed female condoms, although only one such product has WHO pre-clearance and none of these female condoms have been approved by the FDA. It is also possible that other parties will develop a female condom. These products, if developed, could be distributed by companies with greater financial resources and customer contacts than us. In addition, there are a number of other products currently marketed which have a higher degree of accepted efficacy for preventing pregnancy than does the female condom. These products include male condoms, birth control pills, and Depo Provera. However, other than FC2, only the latex male condom is generally recognized as being efficacious in preventing both unintended pregnancies and STIs. Companies manufacturing these competing products are generally much larger than we are and have access to significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, FC2 is generally sold at prices comparatively greater than the price of the latex male condom. Accordingly, FC2 will not be able to compete with the latex male condom solely on the basis of price. Sales of our product fluctuate, which causes our operating results to vary from quarter-to-quarter. Sales of our product fluctuate based upon demand from our commercial partners and the public sector and the nature of government procurement processes. Historically, our net revenues and profitability have varied from quarter–to-quarter due to such buying patterns. Quarterly variations in operating results may cause us to fail to meet our earnings guidance or market expectations for our operating results and may tend to depress our stock price during such quarters. Material adverse or unforeseen legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could have an adverse impact on our profits and cash flows. We may, from time to time, become a party to legal proceedings incidental to our business, including, but not limited to, alleged claims relating to product liability, environmental compliance, patent infringement, commercial disputes and employment matters. Future litigation could require us to record reserves or make payments which could adversely affect our profits and cash flows. Even the successful defense of legal proceedings may cause us to incur substantial legal costs and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on our patented and other proprietary technology relating to FC2. The actions taken by us to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our product, processes or technology. We cannot assure you that our proprietary technology will not become known to competitors, or that others will not independently develop a substantially equivalent or better female condom that does not infringe on our intellectual property rights, or will not challenge or assert rights in, and ownership of, our patents and other proprietary rights. 15 A limited number of our shareholders can exercise substantial influence over our company. As of November 29, 2013, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 25.3 percent of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If these shareholders were to vote together as a group, they would have the ability to exert significant influence over our Board of Directors and policies. For instance, these shareholders would be able to exert a significant influence over the outcome of all shareholder votes, including votes concerning director elections, amendments to our articles of incorporation and possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. We may not be able to continue paying dividends on our common stock. Although we have paid a quarterly cash dividend to the holders of our common stock since the second quarter of fiscal 2010, holders of our common stock are not entitled to receive dividends. Downturns in the domestic and global economies or in our operating results could cause our Board of Directors to consider, among other things, the reduction or elimination of dividends paid on our common stock. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, under our credit facility with Heartland Bank, dividends are only permitted as long as after giving effect to the dividend we have a ratio of total liabilities to total stockholders' equity of no more than 1:1. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, Wisconsin law and change of control agreements with our officers could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents, Wisconsin law and change of control agreements that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include the following: · the authority provided to our Board of Directors in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation to issue preferred stock without further action by our shareholders; · change of control agreements we have entered into with four of our employees which provide for up to three years of compensation following a change of control as defined in the agreements; · the provision under Wisconsin law that permits shareholders to act by written consent only if such consent is unanimous; · the provision under Wisconsin law that requires for a corporation such as us that was formed before January 1, 1973, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our voting stock to approve an amendment to our articles of incorporation, a merger submitted to a vote of our shareholders or a sale of substantially all of our assets; and · the Wisconsin control share acquisition statute and Wisconsin's "fair price" and "business combination" provisions which limit the ability of an acquiring person to engage in certain transactions or to exercise the full voting power of acquired shares under certain circumstances. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may become volatile again in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: · our failure to meet our earnings guidance or market expectations for our performance; · changes in the rate at which we pay dividends; · the timing of announcements by us or our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions or financial performance; · fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; · substantial sales of our common stock; · general stock market conditions; or · other economic or external factors. 16 You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 