ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company's actual results and could cause the Company's actual consolidated results for the Company's current year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. UNCERTAIN OUTLOOK The Company no longer has any operating business. As a result of this fact, together with the stockholders' deficit, the Company's significant loss from operations and the pending legal matters, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The Board of Directors continues to consider various alternative courses of action for the Company, including possibly acquiring or combining with one or more operating businesses. The Board of Directors has reviewed and analyzed a number of proposed transactions and will continue to do so until it can determine a course of action going forward to best benefit all shareholders, including the holder of the Company's outstanding preferred stock described below. The Company cannot predict when the Directors will have developed a proposed course of action or whether any such course of action will be successful. No assurances can be made that the holders of our capital stock will receive any distributions if the Company is wound up and liquidated or sold. The outstanding preferred stock has a liquidation preference over the common stock of approximately $31.3 million, which includes accrued dividends. Also, upon a change of control of the Company, the holder of the outstanding preferred stock can cause the Company to redeem the preferred stock for 101% of the liquidation preference. PENDING LITIGATION Although significant litigation, including the litigation with McDonald's and related entities, was settled during the third quarter of 2004, other material litigation against the Company is still pending, specifically, a case in Canada which arose out of the same events which resulted in the McDonald's litigation. In addition to the on-going legal costs associated with the defense of this case and any future cases which may be brought against the Company by persons who opted out of the McDonald's settlement or others, any significant adverse judgment would have a material adverse effect on the Company. DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL We are dependent on several key personnel, including our Directors. In light of our uncertain outlook, there is no assurance that our key personnel can be retained. The loss of the services of our key personnel would harm the Company. In addition, the Company has a limited number personnel. As such, this presents a challenge in implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with which the Company must comply in fiscal 2007. If Section 404 is not properly implemented, the Company's internal control over financial reporting may be adversely affected. INVESTMENTS The Company has made strategic and venture investments in a portfolio of privately held companies. These investments were in technology and internet related companies that were at varying stages of development, and were intended to provide the Company with an expanded technology and internet presence, to enhance the Company's position at the leading edge of e-business and to provide venture investment returns. These companies in which the Company has invested are subject to all the risks inherent in technology and the internet. In addition, these companies are subject to the valuation volatility associated with the investment community and capital markets. The carrying value of the Company's investments in these companies is subject to the aforementioned risks. Periodically, the Company performs a review of the carrying value of all its investments in these companies, and considers such factors as current results, trends and future prospects, capital market conditions and other economic factors. The carrying value of the Company's investment portfolio totaled $11.5 million as of December 31, 2005. 7 From time to time, the Company may provide forward looking information such as forecasts of expected future performance or statements about the Company's plans and objectives. This information may be contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases or oral statements by the officers of the Company. The Company desires to take advantage of the "Safe Harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and these risk factors are intended to do so. 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Inapplicable. 