Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Some of the statements we make in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are generally identifiable by the use of the words “anticipate,” “will,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “seek” or similar expressions and are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical statements of fact and those regarding our intent, belief, plans or expectations such as statements concerning our operating and growth strategy, projections of revenue, income or loss, information regarding future restaurant openings and capital expenditures, potential increases in food and other operating costs, and our development, expansion, franchising plans and future operations. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results in future periods to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Those risks and uncertainties include, among others, costs and uncertainties relating to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the definitive merger agreement with Fidelity National Financial, Inc.; the continued deterioration in the United States economy and the related adverse effect on our sales of decreased consumer spending; our ability to achieve our internal forecast of sales and profitability; our ability to comply with the terms and conditions of our financing agreements; our ability to maintain or increase comparable store sales and operating margins at our restaurants; the effect that increases in food, labor, energy, interest costs and other expenses have on our results of operations; the effect of increased competition; our ability to sell or sublease closed restaurants and other surplus assets; our ability to successfully implement and realize projected benefits of our turnaround and transformation process; the resolution of outstanding legal proceedings; and the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, you should not regard the inclusion of such information as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives and plans will be achieved. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect events and circumstances occurring after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. We face risks and uncertainties associated with our previously announced signing of a definitive merger agreement related to the acquisition of all our outstanding shares of common stock. On February 5, 2012, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Fidelity National Financial, Inc. (“FNF”) and Fred Merger Sub Inc. (“Merger Sub”), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of FNF, pursuant to which Merger Sub has commenced a tender offer to purchase all of the outstanding shares of our common stock for $9.85 per share and, if the tender offer is consummated, subject to the approval of our shareholders, if required, and the satisfaction of certain other conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, the Company will merge with and into Merger Sub, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation and becoming an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of FNF (see note 24 of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information). The announcement of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, whether or not consummated, may create instability in our relationships with key employees and vendors and may create potential concerns or negative impressions among our customers and prospective customers. The Merger Agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the proposed transaction, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business that may affect our ability to execute on our business strategies and/or to attain our financial goals. We have committed and expect to further commit significant Company resources to the proposed transaction which could have been devoted to other business opportunities. Also, the ensuing process places significant demands upon our management resources, which among other things may distract our senior management and our board of directors from committing the optimum amount of time, attention and resources to our ongoing business operations. Since the announcement of the proposed transaction, several putative class action lawsuits have been filed by purported shareholders of the Company on behalf of themselves and other shareholders of the Company in relation to the transaction (see note 20 of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information). All of these lawsuits seek to enjoin the proposed transaction or rescission of the transaction if it is consummated. We also could be subject to additional litigation related to the proposed transaction, whether or not it is consummated. While we currently believe all such litigation is without merit and will not succeed, these pending and potential lawsuits create additional uncertainty relating to the proposed transaction and defending such matters is costly and distracting to management. 13 Table of Contents The Merger Agreement can be terminated by us or FNF under certain circumstances. If terminated, we must pay FNF a termination fee under certain circumstances, which fee will be either $6.74 million or $3.37 million depending on the circumstances giving rise to payment of the termination fee. Under certain circumstances, we would be required to reimburse FNF for its actual expenses incurred in connection with the proposed transaction, subject to a $2 million cap, which such expense reimbursement will reduce the subsequent payment of any termination fee. The completion of the proposed transaction is subject to certain conditions, including, among others, (i) that the number of shares of our common stock validly tendered and not validly withdrawn, together with any shares then owned by FNF and its affiliates, equals at least a majority of the shares of our common stock issued and outstanding on a fully diluted basis, (ii) the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and certain other antitrust laws, (iii) the absence of a material adverse effect on the Company and (iv) certain other customary conditions. We cannot predict whether the closing conditions for the proposed transaction set forth in the Merger Agreement will be satisfied. As a result, we cannot assure you that the proposed transaction will be completed. If the closing conditions for the proposed transaction are not satisfied or waived pursuant to the Merger Agreement, or if the transaction is not completed for any other reason, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. In addition, if the proposed transaction does not occur, we will nonetheless remain liable for the significant expenses that we have incurred related to the transaction. These factors, alone or in combination with other circumstances and events, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. FNF and Merger Sub filed a Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO (the “Schedule TO”) with the SEC on February 27, 2012, and we have filed a Solicitation/Recommendation Statement on Schedule 14D-9 (the “Schedule 14D-9”) with the SEC. The Schedule TO and Schedule 14D-9 have been sent to our shareholders. We urge our investors and shareholders to read the Schedule 14D-9 and the Schedule TO and other relevant materials as they become available because they will contain important information about the proposed transaction. General economic conditions, as well as those specific to the restaurant industry, may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business results depend on a number of industry-specific and general economic factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include consumer income, interest rates, inflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and discretionary spending. A continued deterioration in consumer confidence and these other factors could continue to reduce guest traffic and impose pressures on pricing, harming our results of operations. The significant slowdown and volatility in the U.S. economy has and is expected to continue to negatively affect our business. For instance, the soft housing market, tight credit and high unemployment rates in recent years have led to a lack of consumer confidence, particularly for consumers that frequent casual-dining chains. Continuing weakness in the spending of those consumers has had and could continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Since our business depends upon consumer discretionary spending, high unemployment and decreased home values, rising fuel and energy costs and tighter access to consumer credit would likely place additional pressure on our guest counts and reduce our profitability as our guests may have lower disposable income and reduce the frequency with which they dine out, may spend less when dining out or may choose more inexpensive restaurants. There can be no assurance that the macroeconomic environment will improve significantly or that the federal government’s stimulus efforts will restore consumer confidence, increase liquidity and the availability of credit, or result in significantly lower unemployment. In response to ongoing economic conditions, many of our competitors have continued discounting activities in markets in which we operate. Our response, or failure to respond, to such discounting could negatively impact our restaurant sales. In addition, general economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our suppliers, landlords, franchisees and other business partners. Some of our suppliers could experience serious cash flow problems due to the current credit market. As a result, they may attempt to increase their prices, pass through increased costs or alter payment terms. Our suppliers may be forced to reduce their production, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A weak economic recovery or worsening of the U.S. economy, or even the fear of such a development, could intensify the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Changing consumer preferences could force us to modify our concepts and menus and could result in a reduction in our revenues. Our O’Charley’s and Ninety Nine restaurants are casual-dining restaurants that feature menus intended to appeal to a broad spectrum of guests. Our Stoney River restaurants are upscale casual-dining steakhouses that feature steaks, fresh seafood and other gourmet entrées. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of these foods and these styles of dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could materially adversely affect our future operating results. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes in consumer preferences, as well as other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. In connection with the repositioning of our Stoney River concept in 2009 and 2010, we reduced prices of certain menu offerings and added new menu items. We may make further changes in our concepts and menus in order to respond to changes in consumer tastes or dining patterns. If we change a restaurant concept or menu, we may lose guests who do not prefer the new concept or menu, and may not be able to attract a sufficient new guest base to produce the revenue needed to make the restaurant concept profitable. Unfavorable publicity, or a failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could harm our reputation and adversely impact our guest counts and sales. The good reputation of our restaurant brands is a key factor in the success of our business. Actual or alleged incidents at any of our restaurants could result in negative publicity that could harm our brands. Negative publicity may result from allegations of illegal, unfair or inconsistent employment practices, guest discrimination, illness or injury. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to a limited number of our restaurants, or only to a single restaurant, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand. Negative publicity also may result from health concerns including food safety and flu outbreaks, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products, environmental disasters, crime incidents, scandals involving our employees, or disruptions or operational problems at our restaurants, all of which could make our brands and menu offerings less appealing to our guests and negatively impact our guest counts and sales. Adverse publicity and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of our brands, or our failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, even incidents occurring at restaurants operated by our competitors or in the supply chain generally could result in negative publicity that could harm the restaurant industry overall and, indirectly, our own brands. Our restaurants may not be able to compete successfully with other restaurants, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, service, location, nutritional and dietary trends and food quality, and there are many well-established competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than us, including a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, some of which operate more restaurants and have greater financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors have been in existence for a substantially longer period than us and may be better established in the markets where our restaurants are or may be located. Some of our competitors advertise on national television, which may provide them with greater awareness and name recognition than we can achieve through our advertising efforts. Our success to drive incremental sales or maintain sales levels is dependent upon our operational execution and marketing. If our marketing promotions fail to achieve a competitive advantage we may lose market share. Additionally, we face increasing competition from the convergence of restaurant, deli and grocery services, as supermarkets and grocery stores offer “convenient meals” in the form of improved entrées and side dishes in their deli sections. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully in new and existing markets, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We also compete with other restaurants for experienced management personnel and hourly team members and with other restaurants and retail establishments for quality sites. The effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs could have a material effect on our operating results. Our revenues are heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful, which may lead us to fail to attract new guests and retain existing guests. If our marketing and advertising programs are unsuccessful, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our marketing and 15 Table of Contents advertising programs may also be impacted by the activities of our competitors. Increased spending on advertising and promotions by our competitors could result in increased spending by us on advertising and promotions, or could reduce the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that the current economic environment and the competitive landscape in the casual-dining restaurant industry have made our customers more value-conscious, and that we must respond to new market conditions and consumers’ demand for superior value. This strategy is reflected in, among other things, menu offerings at our O’Charley’s and Ninety Nine restaurants and our value-oriented pricing and menu changes at our Stoney River restaurants. If we are unable to successfully execute this strategy, our operating margins and financial results could be adversely affected. We may incur costs or liabilities and lose revenue as the result of existing or proposed government laws or regulation. Our restaurants are subject to extensive federal, state and local government laws and regulation, including regulations related to the preparation and sale of food (such as labeling, allergens content, trans fat content and other menu information regarding nutrition), the sale of alcoholic beverages, employment matters (such as minimum wage, employee health insurance, organizing and collective bargaining, fair employment practices, and employee health and safety), information security, zoning and building codes and other health, sanitation and safety matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. The federal healthcare reform legislation that became law in March 2010 or PPACA requires restaurant companies such as ours to disclose calorie information on their menus. We do not expect to incur any material costs from compliance with this provision, but cannot anticipate any changes in guest behavior resulting from the implementation of this portion of the law, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. All of these regulations impact not only our current restaurant operations but also our ability to open new restaurants, if our business strategy calls for us to do so. We will be required to comply with applicable state and local regulations in any new locations into which we expand. Any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining licenses, permits or approvals in such new locations could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant in a particular area or reduce operations at an existing location, either of which could materially and adversely affect our growth and results of operations. The revenues and costs of operating our restaurants may be adversely affected if there are changes in laws governing minimum hourly wages or tip credits, labor or collective bargaining laws, nutritional labeling, environmental matters, workers’ compensation insurance rates, employee health insurance, unemployment tax rates, sales taxes, corporate income tax or other laws and regulations, such as the federal Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family Medical Leave Act and the PPACA. The PPACA contains requirements that may significantly raise our employee health benefits costs or alter the benefits we provide, including mandatory enrollment of employees in company health plans, the elimination of caps on annual and lifetime coverage limits, a ban on pre-existing conditions as an exclusion for coverage, a prohibition on linking eligibility and premium rates to health-status factors, and mandatory coverage availability for dependents through age 26. If our employee health insurance and other of the foregoing costs increase, there can be no assurance that we will be able to offset the increase by increasing our menu prices or by other means, which would adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to comply with our financial covenants, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. At December 25, 2011, we had a total of $0.2 million in debt and capital lease obligations. We had no amounts outstanding on our revolving credit facility at December 25, 2011. Our credit facility contains customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on dividends, repurchases of capital stock, sale leaseback transactions, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, mergers and acquisitions, and asset sales. In addition, our credit facility contains certain financial covenants, including an adjusted debt to EBITDAR ratio, a senior secured leverage ratio, a fixed-charge coverage ratio and capital expenditures ratio. As of the end of our 2011 fiscal year, there were no defaults under our credit facility and we believe we were in compliance with all covenants. Although we currently project that we will remain in compliance with these covenants, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with these covenants. If we were to violate any of our covenants under our credit facility, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining amendments or waivers on acceptable terms. Any waiver or amendment may result in future increases in the interest costs and possible additional restrictions under our credit facility. 16 Table of Contents In addition, we have four separate lease agreements that cover lease arrangements for an aggregate of 30 of our Ninety Nine restaurants, each of which contains a fixed charge covenant calculation. Each of the four restaurant groups are subject to an annual fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.50 to 1.00. Each of the lease agreements exceeded the 1.50 to 1.00 minimum as of the end of fiscal 2011. Failure to remain in compliance with these lease covenants could adversely affect our results of operations. Our support centers could experience a natural or man-made disaster, resulting in a loss of data and information, and disruption of our business. Successful operation of our restaurants depends upon the oversight, information systems and administrative support that they receive from our support centers. For example, our information systems provide point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, financial reporting, various other processes and transactions and maintaining operational efficiencies. We have developed and tested a Disaster Recovery Plan to respond to the loss of information systems in the event of natural and man-made disasters. This plan allows us to fully restore our critical systems in a remote location within three business days. If the Disaster Recovery Plan were to fail, the loss of data and other capabilities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and the reliability of our financial information. We may experience higher operating costs, which would adversely affect our operating results if we cannot increase menu prices to cover them. Our operating results are significantly dependent on our ability to anticipate and react to increases in food, labor, team member benefits, insurance, energy and other costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, production, availability and recalls of food products, inflation and seasonality may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. Some climatologists predict that the long-term effects of climate change may result in more severe, volatile weather, which could affect our food cost. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, because the pricing strategy at all of our concepts is intended to provide an attractive price-to-value relationship, we may not be able to pass along price increases to our guests, particularly in the current economic environment, without adversely impacting our guest counts. We compete with other restaurants for experienced management personnel and hourly team members. Each of our concepts offers medical benefits to hourly team members. Increases in health care costs, changes in state or federal minimum wage laws, or changes in legal requirements relating to employee benefits would likely cause an increase in our labor costs. We cannot assure that we will be able to offset increased wage and benefit costs through our purchasing and hiring practices or menu price increases, particularly over the short term. As a result, increases in wages and benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the current premiums that we pay for our insurance (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property, health, and directors’ and officers’ liability) may increase annually, thereby further increasing our costs. The dollar amount of claims that we actually experience under our workers’ compensation and general liability insurance, for which we carry high per-claim deductibles, may also increase at any time, thereby further increasing our costs. Further, the decreased availability of property and liability insurance has the potential to negatively impact the cost of premiums and the magnitude of uninsured losses, particularly if the insurance carriers themselves became financially unstable. We outsource certain business processes to third-party vendors that subject us to risks, including disruptions in business and increased costs. Some business processes that are dependent on technology are outsourced to third parties. Such processes include gift card tracking and authorization, credit card authorization and processing, certain payroll processes and insurance and benefit administrators. We make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services are observing proper internal control practices, including secure data transfers between us and the third-party vendor; however, there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or ability to accomplish our financial and management reporting. Failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of our guests and team members could expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and team members both internally and with third party vendors. Our use of this information is regulated at the federal and state levels, as well as by certain third party contracts. If our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with 17 Table of Contents these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as operations, results of operations and financial condition, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, or changes are imposed by our business partners, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. We may incur costs or liabilities as a result of litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues that can also cause guests to avoid our restaurants. We are subject to complaints or litigation from time to time from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality or health concerns. Litigation or adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are subject to litigation under “dram shop’’ laws that allow a person to sue us based on any injury or death caused by an intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our restaurants. While we maintain insurance for lawsuits under a “dram shop” law or alleging illness or injury from food, we have significant deductibles under such insurance and any such litigation may result in a verdict in excess of our liability insurance policy limits, which could result in substantial liability for us and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are a defendant from time to time in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, including claims relating to injury; claims relating to workplace and employment matters, including wage and hour disputes, discrimination claims and similar matters; claims resulting from “slip and fall” accidents; claims relating to lease and contractual obligations; claims relating to our franchising initiatives; trademark infringement; shareholder claims; and claims from guests or employees alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We do not believe that any of the legal proceedings pending against us as of the date of this report will have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or financial condition. We may incur liabilities, receive benefits, settle disputes, sustain judgments, or accrue expenses relating to legal proceedings in a particular fiscal quarter which may adversely affect our results of operations, or on occasion, receive settlements that favorably affect results of operations. However, the outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. Even if a claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any negative allegation regarding our company, our business or our products could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential guests. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A large part of our success depends on our ability to execute our strategic plan and to realize our anticipated supply chain efficiencies. Our strategic plan involves a number of initiatives intended to improve our restaurant level economics and enhance guest loyalty. Our strategic plan involves significant investments in our management team and our restaurants and the success of the strategic plan depends on our ability to successfully implement the plan and realize the projected return on our investment. Our strategy also includes improving our restaurant level economics, and we believe that effective supply chain management will contribute significantly to achieving this goal. However, a failure to successfully implement and realize projected savings from these actions could adversely affect the results of our strategic plan. Our restaurants are concentrated geographically; if any one of the regions in which our restaurants are located experiences an economic downturn, adverse weather or other material change, our business results may suffer. Our O’Charley’s restaurants are located in the Eastern, Southeastern, and Midwestern United States. Our Ninety Nine restaurants are located in the Northeastern United States. As of December 25, 2011, we operated 39 of our 221 O’Charley’s restaurants in Tennessee and 61 of our 105 Ninety Nine restaurants in Massachusetts. As a result, our business and our financial or operating results may be materially adversely affected by adverse economic, weather or business conditions in these markets, as well as in other geographic regions in which we operate restaurants. 18 Table of Contents Any disruption in our supply chain could adversely affect our ability to operate our restaurants. Possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Such disruptions may be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit in a tightened credit market, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, or other conditions beyond our control. Our inability to effectively manage supply chain risk could increase our costs and limit the availability of products critical to our restaurant operations. We have outsourced the manufacture of all food products, as well as the distribution and transportation services to the O’Charley’s, Ninety Nine and Stoney River brands, to third parties. This makes us dependent upon the performance of third-party manufacturers and distributors for the availability and delivery of food and other supplies. Any disruptions to their operations could have a material impact on our future reported results. We rely heavily on technology in our business, and any interruption, failure or breach of security of that technology could negatively affect our ability to effectively operate our business. If we experience problems with our ability to effectively manage our information systems it could disrupt our operations. Our business depends on information systems that assist us in, among other things, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, financial reporting, various other processes and transactions and maintaining operational efficiencies. All of these processes depend upon the reliability and capacity of these information systems. These systems include software developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers. To the extent that these external contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems, our operations could be negatively affected. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. In addition, damage or interruption from power outages, computer, network and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, a breach of security, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees could cause delays in customer service, hinder operational efficiencies, result in a loss of data or require a significant investment to remediate the problem. If we are unable to successfully implement, maintain, secure, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions and increases in administrative expenses which could affect our results of operations. Failure to comply with current regulatory requirements will result in additional expenses and may adversely affect us. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of our management’s attention and greater utilization of external resources. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, including any standards or regulations approved under the current government administration. This ongoing investment results in continuing support costs included in general and administrative expenses. We are dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining qualified restaurant employees. Availability of staff varies widely from location to location. Many staff members are in entry-level or part-time positions, typically with high rates of turnover. Even though recent trends in employee turnover have been favorable, if restaurant management and staff turnover were to increase, we could suffer higher direct costs associated with recruiting, training and retaining replacement personnel. Management turnover as well as general shortages in the labor pool can cause our restaurants to be operated with reduced staff, which negatively affects our ability to provide appropriate service levels to our customers. Competition for qualified employees exerts upward pressure on wages paid to attract such personnel, resulting in higher labor costs, together with greater recruiting and training expenses. 19 Table of Contents We are dependent upon our senior management team to execute our business strategy. Our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy are highly dependent on the efforts of our senior management team. Many of the members of our senior management team do not have long tenures with us. Recent hires include our Chief Executive Officer and President in September 2010, our Stoney River Concept President in February 2011, and our O’Charley’s Concept President in September 2011. Additionally, effective as of December 27, 2010, our former Chief Financial Officer resigned to accept a position with another company, and our Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller was subsequently promoted to serve as our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Although the members of our senior management team have employment agreements with us, these agreements may not provide sufficient incentives for these officers to continue employment with us. The loss of one or more of the members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of the members of our senior management team. Identification of material weakness in internal control may adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Those provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control. If such a material weakness is identified, it could indicate a lack of adequate controls to generate accurate financial statements. We routinely assess our internal controls, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely remediate any material weaknesses that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting team members, especially in light of the increased demand for such individuals among publicly-traded companies. As of December 25, 2011 we believe our internal control over financial reporting was effective (see Item 9A “Controls and Procedures”). Changes to estimates related to our property and equipment, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain restaurant locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets. We make certain estimates and projections with regard to individual restaurant operations, as well as our overall performance in connection with our impairment analyses for long-lived assets. An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value or undiscounted future cash flows of the asset. The projection of future cash flows used in this analysis requires the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from our estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If impairment charges are significant, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 20 Table of Contents 