Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Some of the statements we make in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are generally identifiable by the use of the words “anticipate,” “will,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “seek” or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical statements of fact and those regarding our intent, belief, plans or expectations such as statements concerning our operating and growth strategy, projections of revenue, income or loss, information regarding future restaurant openings and capital expenditures, potential increases in food and other operating costs, and our development, expansion, franchising and joint venture plans and future operations. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results in future periods to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Those risks and uncertainties include, among others, our ability to increase operating margins and increase same store sales at our restaurants; the effect that increases in food, labor, energy, interest costs and other expenses have on our results of operations; our ability to successfully implement and realize projected savings from changes to our supply chain; our ability to sell closed restaurants and other surplus assets; the possible adverse effect on our sales of decreases in consumer spending; the effect of increased competition; our ability to successfully implement and realize projected benefits of our turnaround and transformation process, including our re-brandings and other initiatives and the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, you should not regard the inclusion of such information as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives and plans will be achieved. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect events and circumstances occurring after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our success depends on our ability to execute our strategic plan, including our re-branding and supply chain efficiency initiatives. Our strategic plan involves a number of initiatives intended to improve our restaurant level economics and enhance guest loyalty. Our strategic plan involves significant investments in our management team and our restaurants and the success of the strategic plan depends on our ability to successfully implement the plan and realize the projected return on our investment. As part of our strategic plan, we have developed new prototype restaurants and are in the process of re-branding many of our existing O'Charley's and Ninety Nine restaurants. These re-branding efforts include substantial capital investment in remodeling the restaurants. As of December 30, 2007, we have completed 29 re-brandings at O'Charley's restaurants and 42 re-brandings at Ninety Nine Restaurant restaurants since inception of our re-branding programs. We plan on re-branding approximately 70 O’Charley’s restaurants and approximately 40 Ninety Nine restaurants in fiscal 2008. A failure to realize the benefits anticipated from these re-brandings could adversely affect our turnaround efforts. In addition, during fiscal 2007, we completed the sale of our commissary facility in Nashville, Tennessee and the outsourcing of various food processing and distribution activities performed at our commissary and distribution facilities in Nashville, Tennessee, and Woburn, Massachusetts. Our strategy includes improving our restaurant level economics, and we believe that selling our commissary facility and outsourcing certain processes will contribute significantly to this goal. However, a failure to successfully implement and realize projected savings from these changes could adversely affect the results of our strategic plans. 10 Changing consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns could force us to modify our concepts and menus and could result in a reduction in our revenues. Our O’Charley’s and Ninety Nine restaurants are casual dining restaurants that feature menus intended to appeal to a broad spectrum of guests. Our Stoney River restaurants are upscale steakhouses that feature steaks, fresh seafood and other gourmet entrees. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of these foods and these styles of dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could materially adversely affect our future operating results. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits, as well as other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. We may be forced to make changes in our concepts and menus in order to respond to changes in consumer tastes or dining patterns. If we change a restaurant concept or menu, we may lose guests who do not prefer the new concept or menu, and may not be able to attract a sufficient new guest base to produce the revenue needed to make the restaurant profitable. In addition, consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of beef, the primary item on our Stoney River menu, food born illnesses or other diseases or by specific events such as E. coli food poisoning or outbreaks of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (mad cow disease) or other diseases. Our success is also dependent to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could harm our results of operations. Our customers face economic pressures which could adversely impact their frequency of visiting our restaurants. Recent changes in the housing and housing finance market, increases in prices for gasoline, food and utilities and decreases in consumer confidence have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on the mid-scale casual dining consumers that account for a significant share of our sales. Continuing weakness in the spending of those consumers has had and could continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We may experience higher operating costs, which would adversely affect our operating results, if we cannot increase menu prices to cover them. Our operating results are significantly dependent on our ability to anticipate and react to increases in food, labor, team member benefits, energy and other costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions (including hurricanes), governmental regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products and seasonality may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, because the pricing strategy at our O’Charley’s and Ninety Nine restaurants is intended to provide an attractive price-to-value relationship, we may not be able to pass along price increases to our guests without adversely impacting our guest counts. We compete with other restaurants for experienced management personnel and hourly team members. Each of our concepts offers medical benefits to hourly team members. Increases in health care costs, changes in state or federal minimum wage laws, or changes in legal requirements relating to employee benefits would likely cause an increase in our labor costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to offset increased wage and benefit costs through our purchasing and hiring practices or menu price increases, particularly over the short term. As a result, increases in wages and benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our continued growth depends on our ability to open new restaurants and operate our new restaurants profitably, which in turn depends upon our continued access to capital. A significant portion of our historical growth has been due to opening new restaurants. We have substantially reduced our new restaurant growth pending the implementation of our strategic initiatives in our turnaround plan, but still opened five new company-owned O’Charley’s restaurants and two new Ninety Nine restaurants in 2007. We currently plan to open between three and five new company-owned O’Charley’s restaurants, between two and four new Ninety Nine restaurants, and one or two new Stoney River restaurants in 2008. Our ability to open new restaurants successfully depends on a number of factors, such as: • the selection and availability of quality restaurant sites; • our ability to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms; • our ability to hire, train and retain the skilled management and other personnel necessary to open, manage and operate new restaurants; • our ability to secure the governmental permits and approvals required to open new restaurants; • our ability to manage the amount of time and money required to build and open new restaurants, including the possibility that adverse weather conditions may delay construction and the opening of new restaurants; and • the availability of adequate financing. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, we have historically generated insufficient cash flow from operations to fund our working capital and capital expenditures and, accordingly, our ability to open new restaurants and our ability to grow, as well as our ability to meet other anticipated capital needs, may be dependent on our continued access to external financing, including borrowings under our credit 11 facility and financing obtained in the capital markets. Our ability to make borrowings under our credit facility will require, among other things, that we comply with certain financial and other covenants, and we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that we will be successful in opening new restaurants in accordance with our current plans or otherwise. Furthermore, we cannot be assured that our new restaurants will generate revenues or profit margins consistent with those of our existing restaurants, or that the new restaurants will be operated profitably. Our growth may strain our management and infrastructure, which could slow our development of new restaurants and adversely affect our ability to manage existing restaurants. Our growth has placed significant demands upon our management. We also face the risk that our existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls and information systems will be inadequate to support our planned growth. We cannot predict whether we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our turnaround effort and planned growth will impose on management and these systems and controls. If our management is unable to meet these demands or if we fail to continue to improve our information systems and financial controls or to manage other factors necessary for us to achieve our growth objectives, our operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Unanticipated expenses and market acceptance could affect the results of restaurants we open in new and existing markets. As part of our growth plans, we may open new restaurants in areas in which we have little or no operating experience and in which potential guests may not be familiar with our restaurants. As a result, we have incurred and may continue to incur costs related to the opening, operation, supervision and promotion of those new restaurants that are substantially greater than those incurred in other areas. Even though we may incur substantial additional costs with these new restaurants, they may attract fewer guests than our more established restaurants in existing markets. As a result, the results of operations at new restaurants may be inferior to those of our existing restaurants. The new restaurants may even operate at a loss. Our primary growth plan is to open restaurants in or near markets in which we have existing restaurants. We may be unable to attract enough guests to the new restaurants for them to meet our objectives. Even if we are able to attract enough guests to the new restaurants to meet our objectives for that restaurant, those guests may be former guests of one of our existing restaurants in that market and the opening of a new restaurant in the existing market could reduce the revenue of our existing restaurants in that market. We could face labor shortages that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified team members, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers, necessary to continue our operations and to keep pace with our growth. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and quantity needed to fill these positions are in short supply. Given the low unemployment rates in certain areas in which we operate, we may have difficulty hiring and retaining qualified management and other personnel. Any inability to recruit and retain sufficient qualified individuals may adversely affect operating results at existing restaurants and delay the planned openings of new restaurants. Any delays in opening new restaurants or any material increases in team member turnover rates in existing restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Additionally, we have increased wages and benefits to attract a sufficient number of competent team members, resulting in higher labor costs. Our restaurants are concentrated geographically; if any one of the regions in which our restaurants are located experiences an economic downturn, adverse weather or other material change, our business results may suffer. Our O’Charley’s restaurants are located in the Southeastern and Midwestern United States. Our Ninety Nine restaurants are located primarily in the Northeastern United States. As of December 30, 2007, we operated 39 of our 229 O’Charley’s restaurants in Tennessee and 62 of our 115 Ninety Nine restaurants in Massachusetts. As a result, our business and our financial or operating results may be materially adversely affected by adverse economic, weather or business conditions in these markets, as well as in other geographic regions in which we operate restaurants. Our restaurants may not be able to compete successfully with other restaurants, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, service, location, nutritional and dietary trends and food quality, and there are many well-established competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than us, including a large number of national and regional restaurant chains. Some of our competitors have been in existence for a substantially longer period than us and may be better established in the markets where our restaurants are or may be located. Some of our competitors advertise on national television, which may provide them with greater awareness and name recognition than we can achieve through our advertising efforts. Additionally, we face increasing competition from the convergence of restaurant, deli and grocery services, as supermarkets and grocery stores offer “convenient meals” in the form of improved entrees and side dishes in their deli sections. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully in new and existing markets, our results of operations will be adversely affected. To the extent that we open restaurants in larger cities and metropolitan areas, we expect competition to be more intense in those markets. We also compete with other restaurants for experienced management personnel and hourly team members and with other restaurants and retail establishments for quality sites. Further disruption in financial markets could adversely affect our access to capital. With the recent changes in the financial markets as a result of the downturn in the economy we believe this could have an adverse impact on our ability to obtain continued or additional access to capital. Should we not be able to obtain access to the capital markets it could have an adverse impact on our future reported results. 12 Any disruption in manufacturing and distribution operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our restaurants. We have historically operated a commissary in Nashville, Tennessee through which we manufactured, purchased, and distributed a substantial majority of the food products and supplies for our O’Charley’s and Stoney River restaurants. We also continue to operate a similar distribution facility in Bellingham, Massachusetts, through which we distribute a portion of the food products and supplies for our Ninety Nine restaurants. During the second quarter of 2007, we completed the sale of our commissary facility in Nashville, Tennessee and the outsourcing of various food processing and distribution activities performed at our commissary and distribution facilities in Nashville, Tennessee and Woburn, Massachusetts. As of December 30, 2007, we have completed the transition of the manufacture of certain food products and our signature yeast rolls, as well as the distribution and transportation services to the O’Charley’s and Stoney River brands, from our commissary operations to third parties. Since the transition is now complete, we are now dependant upon the performance of third party manufacturers and distributors. Any disruptions to their operations could have a material impact on our future reported results. Although our distribution facility in Bellingham, Massachusetts remains in operation for our Ninety Nine restaurants, we will continue to consider alternatives. If the operation of our Bellingham, Massachusetts quality product center is disrupted, we may not be able to deliver food and supplies to our Ninety Nine restaurants. If our quality product center is unable to deliver the food products and supplies required to run our Ninety Nine restaurants, we may not be able to find other sources of food or supplies, or, if alternative sources of food or supplies are located, our operating costs may increase. Accordingly, any disruption in our distribution operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our Ninety Nine restaurants and would adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur costs or liabilities and lose revenue as the result of government regulation. Our restaurants are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulation, including regulations related to the preparation and sale of food (such as regulations regarding labeling, allergens content, trans fat content and other menu information regarding nutrition), the sale of alcoholic beverages, zoning and building codes and other health, sanitation and safety matters. All of these regulations impact not only our current restaurant operations but also our ability to open new restaurants. We will be required to comply with applicable state and local regulations in new locations into which we expand. Any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining licenses, permits or approvals in such new locations could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant in a particular area or reduce operations at an existing location, either of which would materially and adversely affect our growth and results of operations. In addition, our Bellingham, Massachusetts quality product center is licensed and subject to regulation by the United States Department of Agriculture and is subject to further regulation by state and local agencies. Our failure to obtain or retain federal, state or local licenses for our Bellingham, Massachusetts quality product center or to comply with applicable regulations could adversely affect our quality product centers operations and disrupt delivery of food and other products to our restaurants. If one or more of our restaurants were unable to serve alcohol or food for even a short time period, we could experience a reduction in our overall revenue. The costs of operating our restaurants may increase if there are changes in laws governing minimum hourly wages or tip credits, workers’ compensation insurance rates, unemployment tax rates, sales taxes, corporate income tax or other laws and regulations, such as the federal Americans with Disabilities Act, which governs access for the disabled. If any of the above costs increase, we cannot assure you that we will be able to offset the increase by increasing our menu prices or by other means, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur costs or liabilities as a result of litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues that can also cause guests to avoid our restaurants. We are subject to complaints or litigation from time to time from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality or health concerns. Litigation or adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect us or our restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are subject to litigation under “dram shop’’ laws that allow a person to sue us based on any injury or death caused by an intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our restaurants. While we maintain insurance for lawsuits under a dram shop law or alleging illness or injury from food, we have significant deductibles under such insurance and any such litigation may result in a verdict in excess of our liability insurance policy limits, which could result in substantial liability for us and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are a defendant from time to time in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, including claims relating to injury; claims relating to workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters; claims resulting from “slip and fall” accidents; claims relating to lease and contractual obligations; claims relating to our joint venture or franchising initiatives; and claims from guests or employees alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We do not believe that any of the legal proceedings pending against us as of the date of this report will have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or financial condition. We may incur liabilities, receive benefits, settle disputes, sustain judgments, or accrue expenses relating to legal proceedings in a particular fiscal quarter which may adversely affect our results of operations, or on occasion, receive settlements that favorably affect results of operations. Compliance with and any failure to comply with current regulatory requirements will result in additional expenses and may adversely affect us. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of our management’s attention and greater utilization of external resources. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment has resulted in and we expect will continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses as well as management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 13 We are dependent upon our senior management team to execute our business strategy. Our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy are highly dependent on the efforts of our senior management team. Many of the members of our senior management team do not have long tenures with us, including, in particular, our Concept President-O’Charley’s who joined us in February 2006, our Chief Supply Chain Officer who joined us in May 2006, and our Chief Development Officer who joined us in April 2007. Although the members of our senior management team have employment agreements with us, these agreements may not provide sufficient incentives for these officers to continue employment with us. The loss of one or more of the members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of the members of our senior management team. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 