ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We provide the following discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We could also be adversely affected by other factors in addition to those listed here. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We derive a majority of our net sales from our core branded products, and any factor that hurts our sales of these products could reduce our revenues and profitability. We derive a majority of our net sales from our core branded products: ADOXA®, KERALACTM, SOLARAZE®, ZODERM®, LIDAMANTLE®, ROSULA®, SELSEB®, ZONALON®, PAMINE®, ANAMANTLE®HC, FLORA-Q® and GLUTOFAC®-ZX. These core branded products accounted for a total of approximately 85% of our net sales for 2005 and approximately 75% of our net sales for 2004 (ADOXA®, SOLARAZE® and ZONALON® were acquired by us on August 10, 2004). We believe that the net sales of these products, along with sales of any product to be developed in connection with our collaboration and license agreement with Medigene and possible line extensions, will constitute the majority of our overall net sales for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any factor that hurts our sales of these core products, individually or collectively, could reduce our revenues and profitability. Many of our core branded products are subject to generic or comparable product competition currently or may be in the near future. Each of our core branded products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by regulatory or competitive changes. Net sales of our core branded products could also be adversely affected by other factors, including: • Manufacturing or supply interruptions; • the development of new competitive pharmaceuticals and technological advances to treat the conditions addressed by our core branded products; • marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our competitors; • effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • legal or regulatory action by the FDA and other government regulatory agencies; • changes in the prescribing practices of dermatologists, podiatrists and/or gastroenterologists; • restrictions on travel affecting the ability of our sales force to market to prescribing physicians in person; • changes in the reimbursement or substitution policies of third party payers or retail pharmacies; • product liability claims; • the outcome of disputes relating to trademarks, patents, license agreements and other rights. Failure to maintain ADOXA® net sales would reduce our revenues and profitability. On August 10, 2004, we purchased certain assets of Bioglan Pharmaceuticals. As part of the transaction, we acquired certain intellectual property, regulatory filings, and other assets relating to ADOXA®, an oral antibiotic indicated for the treatment of acne that is currently not patent protected. ADOXA® accounted for approximately 34% and 13% of our net sales for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The concentration of our net sales in a single product line makes us particularly dependent on that line. If demand for the ADOXA® or any other material product line decreases and we fail to replace those sales, our revenues and profitability would decrease. We rely on unpatented technologies for ADOXA®. During December 2005, a generic competitor introduced less expensive versions of ADOXA® 100mg and ADOXA® 50mg tablets in bottles. These 18 introductions of competing products will most likely result in reduced Net Sales for those impacted ADOXA® products. To minimize lost profits as a result of generic competition against ADOXA®, we entered into a Licensing and Distribution Agreement with Par Pharmaceutical to manufacture and distribute in the United States authorized generic versions of ADOXA® in such strengths and dosage forms as we approve. In addition to entering into our agreement with Par, we have implemented life cycle management techniques for ADOXA®, including launching ADOXA Paks®, designed to enhance patient compliance and physician prescribing, in January 2005 and ADOXA® 150mg tablets in late 2005. These strategies might not be successful, and ADOXA® is susceptible to further potential generic competition and sales erosion. We also depend upon the unpatentable skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, as well as those of our advisors, consultants and other contractors, none of which might provide effective protection for ADOXA®. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our net sales or profit levels for ADOXA® products or that they will not decrease. Net sales of KERALACTM and CARMOL®40 have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the introduction of competitive products and net sales of ADOXA® may be affected by the recent introduction of competitive products. In the second quarter of 2003, a competitor launched a competing product with the same active ingredient as CARMOL® 40 CREAM. During the fourth quarter of 2003, generic competitors introduced less expensive comparable products to CARMOL® 40 CREAM, LOTION and GEL, also with the same active ingredient. These introductions of competing products resulted in reduced demand for our CARMOL® 40 CREAM, LOTION and GEL products during the year ended December 31, 2004 in comparison to the same periods in the prior year. The total net sales for CARMOL®40 CREAM, LOTION and GEL for the year ended 2005 were $6,085,620, a decrease of $7,417,649 from the year ended December 31, 2004. During January 2005, a generic competitor introduced less expensive comparable products to KERALACTM LOTION and NAIL GEL with the same active ingredient. These introductions of competing products will most likely result in reduced demand for our KERALACTM LOTION and NAIL GEL products in the upcoming quarters. During July 2005, generic competitors introduced less expensive comparable products to KERALACTM CREAM, with the same active ingredient. These introductions of these competing products will most likely result in reduced demand for our KERALACTM CREAM products in upcoming quarters. We rely on unpatented technologies for ADOXA®. During December 2005, a competitor introduced generic versions of ADOXA® 50mg and 100mg tablets. We expect that the introduction of these products and the possible future introduction of other competing products will result in reduced demand for ADOXA®. If aggregate demand for CARMOL® 40, KERALACTM, ADOXA® or any other material product line decreases and we fail to replace those sales, our revenues and profitability would decrease. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our net sales levels for CARMOL® 40, KERALACTM and ADOXA®, or that they will not decrease. Our growth depends upon our ability to develop new products, including products, if any, to be developed in connection with our collaboration and license agreement with Medigene. We have acquired the rights to a potential ointment or other topical formulation containing green tea catechins, developed pursuant to our agreement with MediGene, for the treatment of dermatological diseases in humans, including, but not limited to, external genital warts, perianal warts and actinic keratosis. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop any products or technology, including any products to be developed under the Medigene research and development project or pharmaceutical line extensions of our existing brands, in a timely manner, or at all. Delays in the research, development, testing or regulatory approval processes will cause a corresponding delay in revenue generation from those products. Regardless of whether they are ever released to the market, the expense of such processes will have already been incurred. We cannot assure you that the FDA will approve any products or line extensions we develop, including any products developed under the MediGene research and development project, in a timely fashion, or at all. 19 We reevaluate our research and development efforts regularly to assess whether our efforts to develop a particular product or technology are progressing at a rate that justifies our continued expenditures. On the basis of these reevaluations, we have abandoned in the past, and may abandon in the future, our efforts on a particular product or technology. Products that we research or develop may not be successfully commercialized. If we fail to take a product or technology from the development stage to market on a timely basis, we may incur significant expenses without a near-term financial return. We may in the future, supplement our internal research and development by entering into research and development agreements with other pharmaceutical companies. We may, upon entering into such agreements, be required to make significant up-front payments to fund the projects. We cannot be sure, however, that we will be able to locate adequate research partners or that supplemental research will be available on terms acceptable to us in the future. Even if we are able to enter into collaborations, we cannot assure you that these arrangements will result in successful product development or commercialization. Failure of our products to gain, or otherwise maintain, market acceptance would hurt our revenues and profitability. There is a risk that our products may not gain, or otherwise maintain, market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community generally. The degree of market acceptance of any product that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including demonstrated clinical efficacy and safety, cost-effectiveness, potential advantages over alternative products, and our marketing and distribution capabilities. Physicians may elect to not recommend using them for any number of other reasons, including whether our products best meet the particular needs of the individual patient. We do not have proprietary protection for most of our branded pharmaceutical products, and our sales could suffer from competition by generic or comparable products. There is no proprietary protection for most of our branded pharmaceutical products, and competing generic or comparable products for most of these products are sold by other pharmaceutical companies. In addition, governmental and other pressure to reduce pharmaceutical costs may result in physicians prescribing products for which there are generic or comparable products. Increased competition from the sale of generic pharmaceutical or comparable products may cause a decrease in revenue from our branded products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, which would likely negatively affect the market price of our stock. In addition, our branded products for which there are no generic or comparable forms available, may face competition from different therapeutic treatments used for the same indications for which our branded products are used. Our intellectual property rights might not afford us with meaningful protection. Other than patents with respect to SOLARAZE®, we do not have meaningful patents or patent applications pending with respect to any other material products currently sold by us. The ownership of a patent or an interest in a patent does not always provide significant protection and the patents and applications in which we have an interest may be challenged as to their validity or enforceability. Others may independently develop similar technologies or design around the patented aspects of our technology. Challenges may result in significant harm to our business. The cost of responding to these challenges and the inherent costs to defend the validity of our patents, including the prosecution of infringements and the related litigation, could be substantial. Such litigation also could require a substantial commitment of management’s time, which would detract from the time available to be spent maintaining and developing our business. We mainly rely on unpatented proprietary technologies in the development and commercialization of our products. We also depend upon the unpatentable skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, as well as those of our advisors, consultants and other contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how that is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents may be difficult to enforce, we often use trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information or result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy to us in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently develop similar or equivalent trade secrets or know-how. 20 During 2005, generic competitors introduced less expensive comparable products to ANAMANTLE®HC CREAM KIT and KERALACTM LOTION, CREAM and NAIL GEL. In addition, during 2005, another generic competitor introduced less expensive comparable products to ROSULA® AQUEOUS GEL and CLEANSER. We have been issued a U.S. patent with respect to our ROSULA® AQUEOUS GEL and CLEANSER products and have a patent application pending with respect to our KERALACTM products. With respect to our issued patent, and our pending patent, if this patent issues, we intend to seek legal remedies against the generic competitors, including seeking monetary damages. The timing of the issuance of our pending patent, if at all, is uncertain. Further, even if the pending patent issues, our issued and pending patents may not provide significant protection and may be challenged as to their validity or enforceability. Generic competition and introductions by us of line extensions of our existing products or new products may require that we make unexpected changes in our estimates for future product returns and reserves for obsolete inventory which would adversely affect our operating results. Part of our operating plan includes the introduction of line extensions of our existing products to create marketing advantages and extend the life cycles of our products. From time-to-time we may seek to introduce line extensions on an expedited basis before we are able to reduce the levels of inventories of product which may be rendered obsolete or otherwise adversely affected by the line extension. This may require us to increase our estimate for returns of product on hand at wholesalers, which is recorded as a reduction of our net sales, and increase our reserve for inventory in our warehouse which is recorded as a cost of sales. Accordingly, generic competition and the introduction of line extensions may adversely affect our operating results. The restatement of our consolidated financial statements for the Third Quarter 2004 and SEC inquiry have, and will continue to have, an adverse impact on us, including increased costs and the increased possibility of legal or administrative proceedings. As a result of the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for the Third Quarter 2004 and the SEC inquiry, we have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including: • We have incurred substantial unanticipated costs for accounting, legal and financing fees in connection with the restatement. Although the restatement is complete, we expect to continue to incur such costs. • We and certain of our officers and directors have also been named defendants in federal securities class action and federal and state shareholder derivative lawsuits. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits may make additional claims, expand existing claims and/or expand the time periods covered by the complaints and other plaintiffs may bring additional actions with other claims. We expect to incur additional substantial defense costs regardless of the outcome of these lawsuits. Likewise, such events have caused, and will likely continue to cause, a diversion of our management’s time and attention. If we do not prevail in any such actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs which may not be covered by insurance. • The SEC has instituted an informal inquiry which has resulted in, and will likely to continue to result in, a diversion of our management’s time and attention and the incurrence of increased costs. The inquiry could lead to a formal SEC investigation. The inquiry may also result in civil penalties or criminal proceedings, including fines, injunctions or orders with respect to future activities, all of which would result in further substantial costs and diversion of management time and attention. Under our $110 million senior credit facility, we are required to continually satisfy certain financial and other covenants. If we were unable to maintain these covenants and payment obligations under this credit facility were to become immediately due and payable, we may be unable to repay these amounts which could adversely affect our financial condition. 21 As of December 31, 2005, our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments were approximately $65 million. As of that date, we had a total of $78 million outstanding under our $110 million senior credit facility. If we are unable to continually satisfy the financial and other covenants set forth under our $110 million credit facility, and amounts outstanding under this facility were declared due and payable, we may be unable to repay those amounts and our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness. The result of these actions would have a significantly negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We may need additional financing to implement our business strategy, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us. In order to implement our business strategy, and to grow through acquisitions and product enhancement, we may need additional financing. Our ability to grow is dependent upon, and may be limited by, among other things, the availability of satisfactory financing arrangements. Our existing loan agreement with syndicated banks restricts our ability to incur indebtedness and our ability to grant liens upon, and security interests in, our assets, including our intellectual property. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the additional capital necessary to pursue our business strategy. In addition, even if we can obtain additional financing, that financing may not be on terms that are satisfactory to us. Any indebtedness that we incur will rank senior to the interest of the holders of our common stock. We will need to finance any new acquisitions from one or more of the following: • our acquisition of a credit facility with the syndicated banks; • existing working capital and positive cash flow from operations; • new borrowings; • issuing equity securities. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected if we do not adequately address those weaknesses or if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. We did not adequately implement certain controls over information technology used in our core business and financial reporting. These areas included logical access security controls to financial applications and change management procedures, and we have therefore identified a material weakness in our information technology general controls as of December 31, 2005. In addition, we did not adequately implement certain controls relating to our review and verification of internally prepared reports and analyses utilized in the financial closing process, and we have therefore identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to the financial closing process as of December 31, 2005. The existence of these or one or more other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. We may incur charges for intangible asset impairment. When we acquire or license the rights to sell a product, we record intangible assets. If applicable, we use the assistance of valuation experts to help us allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the various intangible assets we have acquired. Then, we must estimate the economic useful life of each of these intangible assets in order to amortize their cost as an expense in our statement of operations over the estimated economic useful life of the related asset. The factors that drive the actual economic useful life of a pharmaceutical product are inherently uncertain, and include patent protection, physician loyalty and prescribing patterns, competition by products prescribed for similar indications, future introductions of competing products not yet FDA approved, the impact of promotional efforts and many other issues. We 23 use all of these factors in initially estimating the economic useful lives of our products, and we also continuously monitor these factors for indications of appropriate revisions. In assessing the recoverability of our intangible assets, we must make assumptions regarding estimated undiscounted future cash flows and other factors. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows do not exceed the carrying value of the intangible assets we must determine the fair value of the intangible assets. If the fair value of the intangible assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to the difference. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment changes for these assets. We review intangible assets for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we determine that an intangible asset is impaired, a non-cash impairment charge would be recognized. As circumstances after an acquisition can change, the value of intangible assets may not be realized by us. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of the unamortized intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. In addition, in the event of a sale of any of our assets, we cannot be certain that our recorded value of such intangible assets would be recovered. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate which could negatively affect the price of our stock. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year depending upon the relative timing of events or uncertainties that may arise. The following events or occurrences, among others, could cause fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period, which could negatively affect the price of our stock: • changes in the amount we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses; • changes in the amount we spend to promote our products; • delays between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses, including delays in the regulatory approval process for new products; • changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently prescribe our products; • changes in wholesale and retail customers purchases and returns of our products; • changes in reimbursement policies of health plans and other similar health insurers, including changes that affect newly developed or newly acquired products; • increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products; • manufacturing and supply interruptions, including any failure by our manufacturers to comply with manufacturing specifications; • development of new competitive products by others; • the mix of products that we sell during any time period; • our responses to price competition; • market acceptance of our products; • the impairment and write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets; • implementation of new or revised accounting, securities, tax or corporate responsibility rules, policies, regulations or laws; • disposition of non-core products, technologies and other rights; • expenditures as a result of legal actions; • termination or expiration of, or the outcome of disputes relating to, trademarks, patents, license agreements and other rights; • increases in insurance rates for existing products and the cost of insurance for new products; • general economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and investments, that affect customer demand; • lack of effectiveness of our sales and marketing endeavors; • seasonality of demand for our products; • our level of research and development activities. 23 We have outstanding indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Our total consolidated long term debt, arising solely from the term loan portion of our $110 million credit facility, was approximately $78 million as of December 31, 2005. Under our $110 million credit facility, we and our operating subsidiaries, Doak Dermatologics, Bioglan Pharmaceuticals Corp. and A. Aarons, Inc., are able to obtain an additional $30 million of borrowings after we file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2006 and when we are (i) not in default under, and (ii) in compliance with, all the other terms and conditions in our credit facility. In addition, under our credit facility, we have granted to the lenders a lien on substantially all of our current and future property, including our intellectual property. The degree to which we are indebted could have important consequences to you because, among other things: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be required to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • our ability to obtain financing in the future may be impaired; • our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock may be restricted; • we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; • we may be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our ability to make payments on and, if necessary, to refinance our debt will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future, which may be influenced by general economic, business, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt as a result of a default, or otherwise, on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance any of our debt, including the debt under our credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Because we rely on independent manufacturers for our products, any regulatory or production problems could affect our product supply. We do not own or operate any manufacturing or production facilities. Independent companies manufacture and supply our products. Many of these companies also manufacture and supply products for some of our competitors. We do not have licensing or other supply agreements with some of these manufacturers or suppliers for our products, and therefore, some of them could terminate their relationship with us at any time, thereby hampering our ability to deliver and sell the manufactured product to our customers and negatively affecting our operating margins. From time to time, we have experienced delays in shipments from some of our vendors due to production management problems. Although we believe we can obtain replacement manufacturers, the absence of such agreements with our present suppliers may interrupt our ability to sell our products and seriously affect our present and future sales. Currently, all of our ADOXA®, KERALACTM, SOLARAZE®, ZODERM®, LIDAMANTLE®, ROSULA®, SELSEB®, ZONALON®, PAMINE®, ANAMANTLE®HC, FLORA-Q® and GLUTOFAC®-ZX are contract manufactured. Any delays in manufacturing or shipping products, including any customs or related issues, may affect our product supply and ultimately have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the regulations of the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, all manufacturers of pharmaceutical products sold in the United States must comply with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, requirements. Manufacturing operations and processes are subject to FDA inspection, and failure to comply with cGMP requirements can lead to the 24 shutdown of a facility, the seizure of product distributed that the facility, and other sanctions. The cGMP validation of a new facility and the approval of that manufacturer for a new drug product may take a year or more before manufacture can begin at the facility. If we wish or need to identify an alternate manufacturer, delays in obtaining FDA approval of the replacement manufacturing facility could cause an interruption in the supply of our products. Although we have business interruption insurance covering the loss of income for up to $4,060,000, this insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for any interruption of this kind. As a result, the loss of a manufacturer could cause a reduction in our sales, margins and market share, as well as harm our overall business and financial results. Our reliance on third party manufacturers and suppliers can be disruptive to our inventory supply. We, and the manufacturers of our products, rely on suppliers of raw materials used in the production of our products. Some of these materials, including the active ingredient in PAMINE® and PAMINE® FORTE, are available from only one source or a limited number of sources and others may become available from only one source or a limited number of sources. Any disruption in the supply of raw materials or an increase in the cost of raw materials to our manufacturers could have a significant effect on their ability to supply us with our products. We try to maintain inventory levels that are no greater than necessary to meet our current projections. Any interruption in the supply of finished products could hinder our ability to timely distribute finished products. If we are unable to obtain adequate product supplies to satisfy our customers’ orders, we may lose those orders and our customers may cancel other orders and stock and sell competing products. This, in turn, could cause a loss of our market share and reduce our revenues. We cannot be certain that supply interruptions will not occur or that our inventory will always be adequate. Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of our finished products including: • timing, scheduling and prioritization of production by our current manufacturers; • labor interruptions; • changes in our sources for manufacturing; • the timing and delivery of domestic and international shipments; • failure to meet regulatory requirements for imports or exports; • our failure to locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed on a timely basis; • conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials. If we cannot purchase or integrate new products or companies, our business may suffer. Our principal strategy is to continue to expand our business by acquiring or licensing new products, late stage development products and companies, developing product line extensions of acquired brands, producing new products through modest research and development of compounds already in use, and successfully promoting our products by utilizing our sales force. There are several factors that could limit or restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy successfully: • we may not have the financing to acquire an available or late stage development product; • we may not be able to make acquisitions because other bidders may have greater financial resources; • we may be unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates; • we may not be able to achieve our targeted profit margins with some of the products available for acquisition; • we must be able to maintain adequate operational, financial and management information systems and motivate and effectively manage an increasing number of employees, and as a result, we may not manage our acquisitions effectively; • we may not be able to retain or hire the necessary qualified employees. Sales of newly acquired or licensed products or internally developed products or line extensions may not be profitable and we may not achieve anticipated sales levels for such products. Moreover, while we anticipate making future acquisitions in accordance with our strategic plan, we might be unable to 25 consummate any future acquisitions, and we may not be able to achieve the same rates of return and historical sales levels of any acquired product. Our failure to do so could have a negative effect on the growth of our sales and profitability, and on our operations. We could be sued regarding the intellectual and proprietary rights of others, which could seriously harm our business and cost us a significant amount of time and money. Historically, we have only conducted patent searches on a limited basis due to the maturity of our products. As a result, the products and technologies we currently market, and those we may market in the future may infringe on patents and other rights owned by others. If we are unsuccessful in any challenge to the marketing and sale of our products or technologies, we may be required to license the disputed rights, if the holder of those rights is willing, or to cease marketing the challenged products, or to modify our products to avoid infringing upon those rights. Patents and patent applications to which we have rights may be subject to claims of rights by third parties. If there are conflicting claims to the same patent or patent application, we may not prevail and, even if we do have some rights in a patent or application, those rights may not be sufficient for the marketing and distribution of products covered by the patent or application. In addition, we conduct trademark searches. However, the products we currently market, and those we may market in the future, may infringe on trademarks and other rights owned by others. If we are unsuccessful in any challenge to the marketing and sale of our products, we may be required to license the disputed rights, if the holder of those rights is willing, or to cease marketing the challenged products under that brand name to avoid infringing upon those rights. Although we believe that our product lines and brand names do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future, and if asserted, an infringement claim might not be successfully defended. The costs of responding to infringement claims could be substantial and could require a substantial commitment of management’s time and resources. We depend on a limited number of customers, and if we lose any of them, our business could be harmed. Our four largest customers, who are all wholesalers, accounted for an aggregate of approximately 90% of our gross trade accounts receivable at December 31, 2005 and 91% of our gross trade accounts receivable at December 31, 2004. The following table presents a summary of sales to our four largest customers as a percentage of our total gross sales: Year Ended December 31, Customer* 2003 2004 2005 AmerisourceBergen Corporation 17 % 15 % 13 % Cardinal Health, Inc. 27 % 36 % 40 % McKesson Corporation 24 % 25 % 29 % Quality King Distributors, Inc. 14 % 11 % 1 % * No other customer had a percentage of the Company’s total gross sales greater than 5% during the periods. The loss of any of these customers’ accounts or a reduction in their purchases could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may face pricing pressures from these and other large customers. Distribution Service Agreements (DSAs) with our wholesalers have affected our sales and product returns and may result in us paying an additional service fee to the wholesalers in the future. We have entered into DSAs with our two major wholesale customers, McKesson and Cardinal, which became effective during 2004. The terms of these DSAs require us to pay quarterly fees which are offset 26 by any price appreciation of the inventory that these wholesalers have on hand and also by any discounts that we give them for new product promotions. In return for these “fees,” these wholesalers are obligated, generally, to maintain their inventory levels to the agreed upon months-on-hand and to provide us with monthly inventory and sales reports. The increased visibility afforded by these DSAs provides us with greater sales and inventory predictability and the improved ability to match sales with underlying demand. As a result of executing its respective DSA with us, Cardinal and McKesson each reduced its inventory of our products. As such, the majority of the impact of these DSAs on our operations was felt as our sales to McKesson and Cardinal decreased and returns increased. In addition, as a result of the DSAs, the Company accrued an aggregate of $750,963 in fees for these two wholesale customers during 2005. Consolidation of wholesalers of pharmaceutical products can negatively affect our distribution terms and sales of our products. In recent years, the distribution network for pharmaceutical products has been subject to increasing consolidation. As a result, a few large wholesalers control a significant share of the market. As a consequence, there are fewer channels for wholesale and retail pharmaceutical distribution than were historically available. Accordingly, we depend on fewer wholesalers for our products and we are less able to negotiate price terms with wholesalers. Although we believe that this consolidation among wholesalers will ultimately reduce our distribution costs, our inability to aggressively negotiate price terms with them over the long term could inhibit our efforts to improve our profit margins or sales levels. The continued or future consolidation among pharmaceutical wholesalers could limit our ability to compete effectively. In addition, the number of independent and small chain drug stores has decreased as retail consolidation has occurred. Further consolidation among, or any financial difficulties of, wholesalers or retailers could result in the combination or elimination of warehouses which may result in product returns to our company, cause a reduction in the inventory levels of wholesalers and retailers, or otherwise result in reductions in purchases of our products, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Elimination of buying and selling among wholesalers affects our sales and returns of our products. Prior to 2005, major drug wholesalers, including McKesson, Cardinal, AmerisourceBergen and Quality King, and some chain drug stores, bought and sold pharmaceutical products with each other in order to take advantage of selling and buying pharmaceutical products below the pharmaceutical companies’ wholesale prices. Because of new regulations designed to eliminate counterfeit drugs, wholesalers now have certain pedigree requirements that require them to purchase drugs directly from pharmaceutical companies. Therefore, the practice of buying and selling among drug wholesalers and chain drug stores has been eliminated. As a result of eliminating buying and selling among drug wholesalers and chain drug stores, the wholesalers and drug stores that had been engaged in speculative buying have now experienced a reduction in resale locations, and therefore, less demand for speculative purchases and an increase in our returns. We may be subject to product liability claims, in which case we may not have adequate insurance coverage, we could face substantial losses and legal costs, and our reputation could suffer. Pharmaceutical and health related products, such as those we market, may carry health risks. Consequently, consumers may bring product liability claims against us. We maintain product liability insurance on our products that provides coverage of up to $10,000,000 in the aggregate per year. This insurance is in addition to the required product liability insurance maintained by the manufacturers of our products. We cannot assure that product liability claims will not exceed that coverage or that our reputation will not suffer as a result of any claims. If insurance does not fully fund any product liability claim, or if we are unable to recover damages from the manufacturer of a product that may have caused such injury, we must pay such claims from our own funds. We may also incur substantial litigation costs to defend such claims, even if the claims are without merit. Any such payment or costs could have a detrimental effect on our financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our liability insurance at reasonable premium rates, if at all. We are subject to chargebacks and rebates when our products are resold to or reimbursed by governmental agencies and managed care buying groups, which may reduce our future profit margins. 27 Chargebacks and rebates are the difference between the prices at which we sell our products to wholesalers and the price that third party payors, such as governmental agencies and managed care buying groups, ultimately pay pursuant to fixed price contracts. Medicare, Medicaid and reimbursement legislation or programs regulate drug coverage and reimbursement levels for most of the population in the United States. Federal law requires all pharmaceutical manufacturers to rebate a percentage of their revenue arising from Medicaid-reimbursed drug sales to individual states. Some of our products are subject to rebates of up to the greater of 15.1% of the average manufacturer price or the difference between the average manufacturer price and the lowest manufacturer price during a specified period. We record an estimate of the amount either to be charged back to us or rebated to the end-users at the time of sale to the wholesaler. Over recent years, the pharmaceutical industry in general has accepted the managed care system of chargebacks and rebates. Managed care organizations increasingly began using these chargebacks and rebates as a method to reduce overall costs in drug procurement. Levels of chargebacks and rebates have increased momentum and caused a greater need for more sophisticated tracking and data gathering to confirm sales at contract prices to third-party payors with respect to related sales to wholesalers. We record an accrual for chargebacks and rebates based upon factors including current contract prices, historical chargeback rates and actual chargebacks claimed. The amount of actual chargebacks claimed could, however, be higher than the amounts we accrue, and could reduce our profit margins during the period in which claims are made. Rising insurance costs could negatively impact profitability. The cost of insurance, including workers compensation, product liability and general liability insurance, has risen significantly in recent years and may increase in the future. In addition, as a result of the SEC inquiry, the restatement of our financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, the federal securities class action lawsuit and federal and state derivative shareholder lawsuits, the cost of insurance for our directors and officers insurance will increase. In response, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease certain coverages to mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety of our products, our sales may be harmed and we may be forced to withdraw products. Physicians and potential patients may have a number of concerns about the safety of our products, whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research. Negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products could reduce market or governmental acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand or product withdrawal. In addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims. We selectively outsource some of our non-sales and non-marketing services, and cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate supplies of these services on acceptable terms. To enable us to focus on our core marketing and sales activities, we selectively outsource non-sales and non-marketing functions, such as product and clinical research, manufacturing and warehousing. As we expand our activities in these areas, we expect to use additional financial resources. Typically, we do not enter into long-term contracts for our non-sales and non-marketing functions. Whether or not long-term contracts exist, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate supplies of these services or products in a timely fashion, on acceptable terms, or at all. The loss of our key personnel could limit our ability to operate our business successfully. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management staff, the loss of whose services we believe would impede the achievement of our acquisition and development objectives. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel on acceptable terms. Many of our key managerial, operational, scientific and development personnel, including Daniel Glassman, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, would be difficult to replace. The loss of our personnel’s services could delay the development of contracts and products and limit our ability to operate our business successfully. Shareholder lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. 28 We, along with certain of our officers and directors, were named defendants in thirteen federal securities lawsuits that were consolidated on May 5, 2005 in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The plaintiffs allege violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, arising out of disclosures made to the market that plaintiffs allege were materially false and misleading. Plaintiffs also allege that we and the individual defendants falsely recognized revenue. Additionally, two related New Jersey state court shareholder derivative actions were filed on April 29, 2005 and May 11, 2005 against certain of our officers and directors alleging breach of fiduciary duty and other claims arising out of substantially the same allegations made in the federal securities class action. Further, a federal shareholder derivative action was recently filed against us and certain of our officers and directors alleging breach of fiduciary duties arising out of the SEC inquiry and the restatement of our financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 and violations of Delaware law regarding annual meetings. These proceedings have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in a diversion of management’s attention and resources and in significant professional fees. These professional fees have substantially increased, and in the near term may continue to substantially increase, our cash needs. We have certain obligations to indemnify our officers and directors and to advance expenses to such officers and directors. Although we have purchased liability insurance for our directors and officers, if our insurance carriers should deny coverage, or if the indemnification costs exceed the insurance coverage, we may be forced to bear some or all of these indemnification costs directly, which could be substantial and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the cost of our liability insurance increases significantly, or if this insurance becomes unavailable, we may not be able to maintain or increase our levels of insurance coverage for our directors and officers, which could make it difficult to attract or retain qualified directors and officers. We are not able to estimate the amount of any damages that may arise from these legal proceedings and the internal efforts associated with defending ourselves and our officers and directors. If we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves, these lawsuits could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as a result of the damages that we would be required to pay. It is possible that our insurance policies either may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. While we believe that the allegations and claims made in these lawsuits are wholly without merit and intend to defend these actions vigorously, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in any or all of these actions. Concerns with respect to the circumstances surrounding our pending litigations may have created uncertainty regarding our ability to focus on our business operations and remain competitive with other companies in our industry. Because of this uncertainty, we may have difficulty retaining critical personnel or replacing personnel who leave us. We could be subject to fines, penalties, or other sanctions as a result of the inquiry by the SEC. In December 2004, we were advised by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that it is conducting an informal inquiry relating to us to determine whether there have been violations of the federal securities laws. In connection with the inquiry, the SEC staff has requested that we provide it with certain information and documents, including with respect to revenue recognition and capitalization of certain payments. We are cooperating with this inquiry, however, we are unable at this point to predict the final scope or outcome of the inquiry, and it is possible it could result in civil injunctive or criminal proceedings, the imposition of fines and penalties, and/or other remedies and sanctions. The conduct of these proceedings could negatively impact our stock price. Since we cannot predict the outcome of this matter and its impact on us, we have made no provision relating to this matter in our financial statements. In addition, we expect to continue to incur expenses associated with the SEC inquiry and its repercussions, regardless of the outcome of the SEC inquiry, and it may divert the efforts and attention of our management team from normal business operations. We could face adverse consequences as a result of our late SEC filings. We failed to timely file this Form 10-K as well as other reports with the SEC. As a result, we will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of 12 months after becoming current in our filings. Our inability to use a short form registration statement for a period of 12 29 months after becoming current in our SEC reporting obligations may impair our ability or increase the costs and complexity of our efforts, to raise funds in the public markets or use our stock as consideration in acquisitions should we desire to do so. In addition, we may face additional adverse consequences, including an inability to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 covering a public offering of securities declared effective by the SEC, an inability to make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements (including registration statements on Form S-8 covering employee stock plans), and limitations on the ability of our affiliates to sell our securities pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. These restrictions and adverse consequences may negatively affect our ability to attract and retain key employees and may further impair our ability to raise funds in the public markets should we desire to do so or use our stock as consideration in acquisitions. In addition, our future success depends largely upon the support of our customers, suppliers and investors. The late SEC filings have resulted in negative publicity and may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. The effects of the late SEC filings could cause some of our customers or potential customers to refrain from purchasing or defer decisions to purchase our products. Additionally, current or potential suppliers and other parties may re-examine their willingness to do business with us. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our financial and business prospects. Because we were unable to obtain a waiver from the SEC of the requirement to include pre-March 22, 2002 statements of income and cash flows for Bioglan Pharmaceuticals, we are currently prevented from having registration statements for public offerings of our securities declared effective by the SEC. Due to the significance of the acquisition of Bioglan Pharmaceuticals on August 10, 2004, among other factors, we were unable to obtain a waiver from the SEC of the requirement to include Bioglan Pharmaceuticals’ pre-March 22, 2002 statements of income and cash flows in our Form 8-K filed with respect to the acquisition. We intend to again seek a waiver from the SEC concerning our omission of those financial statements, which is a requirement for us to have future registration statements for our securities declared effective by the SEC. However, we cannot assure whether or when that waiver may be granted. Until we are able to have registration statements for public offerings of our securities declared effective by the SEC, we would need to pursue additional borrowings or private placements of securities if we desired to conduct a financing, which could result in increased costs or other less favorable terms compared to public offerings. If we cannot sell our products in amounts greater than our minimum purchase requirements under some of our supply agreements or sell our products in accordance with our forecasts, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Some of our supply agreements require us to purchase certain minimum levels of active ingredients or finished goods. If we are unable to maintain market exclusivity for our products, if our product life-cycle management is not successful, if we fail to sell our products in accordance with the forecasts we develop as required by our supply agreements or if we do not terminate supply agreements at optimal times for us, we may incur losses in connection with the purchase commitments under the supply agreements or purchase orders. In the event we incur losses in connection with the purchase commitments under the supply agreements or purchase orders, there may be a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY We face significant competition within our industry. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies in the pharmaceutical, chemical, cosmetic and health care fields. Our competitors include AstraZeneca, Sanofi-Aventis, Axcan Pharma, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Connetics, Ferndale Laboratories, First Horizon Pharmaceuticals, Galderma, GlaxoSmithKline, Valeant Pharmaceuticals, Medicis Pharmaceutical, Ortho Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer, Salix Pharmaceuticals, Schering Plough, Schwarz Pharma, Upsher-Smith, Warner-Chilcott and others. Many of these companies have greater resources than we do to devote to marketing, sales, research and development and acquisitions. As a result, they have a 30 greater ability than us to undertake more extensive research and development, marketing and pricing policy programs. In addition, many of these competitors have greater name-recognition than we do among purchasers of pharmaceutical products, and in some cases, they have a reputation for producing highly-effective products. In addition to competition from existing products, it is also possible that our competitors may develop and bring new products to market before us, or may develop new technologies that improve existing products, new products that provide the same benefits as existing products at less cost, or new products that provide benefits superior to those of existing products. These competitors also may develop products that make our current or future products obsolete. Our competitors may also make technological advances reducing their cost of production so that they may engage in price competition through aggressive pricing policies to secure a greater market share to our detriment. Any of these events could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial results, including reductions in our market share and gross margins. Failure to comply with government regulations could affect our ability to operate our business. Virtually all aspects of our activities are regulated by federal and state statutes and government agencies. The research, manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, distribution, advertising and marketing of our products, and disposal of waste products arising from these activities, are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as by foreign governments in countries where we distribute some of our products. Noncompliance with applicable FDA or other government policies or requirements could subject us to enforcement actions, such as suspensions of distribution, seizure of products, product recalls, fines, “whistleblower” lawsuits, criminal penalties, injunctions, failure to approve pending drug product applications or withdrawal of product marketing approvals. Similar civil or criminal penalties could be imposed by other government agencies or various agencies of the states and localities in which our products are manufactured, sold or distributed and could have ramifications for our contracts with government agencies, such as the contract we have with the Veteran’s Administration and the Department of Defense. These enforcement actions would detract from management’s ability to focus on our daily business and would have an adverse effect on the way we conduct our daily business, which could severely impact future profitability. The FDA may change its enforcement policies and take action against products marketed without an approved application such as some of our products. New prescription drugs must be the subject of an FDA-approved application before they may be marketed in the United States. Certain other drugs may be marketed over the counter, or OTC, under special regulations issued by the FDA known as OTC monographs. Certain drugs that we and others market are not the subject of an approved application or an OTC monograph. FDA has recognized that there are numerous, perhaps thousands, of such drug products currently on the market without FDA approvals or authorizations. These include principally products that first came on the market without an NDA prior to changes in the food and drug laws in 1962, and new products that have come on the market since that time on the grounds that they are identical, similar, or related to pre-1962 products. FDA has stated that these unapproved products are new drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and thus require an effective approval in order to be introduced into interstate commerce. However, FDA also acknowledges that many of these products have been marketed and prescribed for years without raising any safety or effectiveness issues, and thus has established policies stating the circumstances under which it will exercise its enforcement discretion and not take action against an otherwise unapproved new drug. Several of our products, including KERALAC®, CARMOL®40, ROSULA®, ZODERM® CARMOL® SCALP TREATMENT, SELSEB®, LIDAMANTLE®, LIDAMANTLE® HC and ANAMANTLE®HC, are marketed in the United States without an FDA-approved marketing application under FDA’s established enforcement policies on the grounds that they are identical, related, or similar to products that existed on the market prior to 1962. Any change in the FDA’s enforcement discretion and/or policies could prevent us 31 from continuing to market these products without incurring the expense and delay of obtaining an approval, alter the way we have to conduct our business, and severely affect our future profitability. In addition, if a competitor submits a new drug application to the FDA for any of these drugs, the FDA may require us also to file a new drug application or an abbreviated new drug application for that same drug in order to continue marketing it in the United States. Similarly, if FDA issues a final OTC monograph covering one of the products we currently market on a prescription basis, we may be required to sell the product under the monograph on an OTC basis, which could significantly affect our future profitability. If we market products in a manner that violates health care fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. Federal health care program anti-kickback statutes prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing, or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, or off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would also harm our financial condition. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. State pharmaceutical marketing compliance and reporting requirements may expose us to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities. In recent years, several states and localities, including California, the District of Columbia, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico, Vermont, and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. We are not aware of any companies against which fines or penalties have been assessed under these special state reporting and disclosure laws to date. We are currently in the process of developing a formal compliance infrastructure and standard operating procedures to comply with such laws. Unless we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. Changes in the reimbursement policies of managed care organizations and other third party payors may reduce our gross margins. 32 Our operating results and business success depend in large part on the availability of adequate third party payor reimbursement to patients for our prescription brand products. These third party payors include governmental entities, such as Medicaid, private health insurers and managed care organizations. A majority of the United States population now participates in some version of managed care. Because of the size of the patient population covered by managed care organizations, marketing of prescription drugs to them and the pharmacy benefit managers that serve many of these organizations has become important to our business. Managed care organizations and other third party payors try to negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs. Managed care organizations and pharmacy benefit managers typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their lower costs, generic products are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one managed care organization to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical conditions. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization patient population. Payment or reimbursement of only a portion of the cost of our prescription products could make our products less attractive to patients, suppliers and prescribing physicians. Changes in the reimbursement policies of these entities could prevent our branded pharmaceutical products from competing on a price basis. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or if adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if reimbursement policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share, our gross margins and our overall business and financial condition could be negatively affected. We began to focus on the inclusion of our products in these formularies relatively recently and, therefore, other specialty pharmaceutical companies may have a competitive advantage with respect to this marketing channel. Moreover, some of our products are not of a type generally eligible for reimbursement, primarily due to either the product’s market share being too low to be considered, cheaper generics being available, or because the product is available without a prescription. It is also possible that products manufactured by others could have the same effects as our products and be subject to reimbursement. If this were the case, some of our products might become too costly to patients. New legislation or regulatory proposals may adversely affect our revenues. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing or amending the way in which health care services and products are provided and paid for in the United States, including the cost of prescription products, importation and reimportation of prescription products from countries outside the United States and changes in the amounts at which pharmaceutical companies are reimbursed for sales of their products, have been proposed. While we cannot predict when or whether any of these proposals will be adopted, or the effect these proposals may have on our business, the pending nature of these proposals, as well as the adoption of any amendment or change in existing applicable laws and regulations, may exacerbate industry-wide pricing pressures and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, in 2000, Congress directed the Department of Health and Human Services to issue regulations allowing the reimportation of approved drugs originally manufactured in the United States back into the United States from other countries where the drugs were sold at a lower price. Although the Secretary of Health and Human Services has not acted to implement this directive, the House of Representatives passed a similar bill in January 2003 that would have permitted reimporation to take effect without the action of the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. This bill as well as other reimportation bills have not yet resulted in any new laws or regulations. Enactment of any of these proposed bills and other initiatives could decrease the reimbursement amount we receive for our products. Additionally sales of our products in the United States could be adversely affected by the importation into the U.S, of foreign manufactured products that some may deem equivalent to our product and that are available outside the United States at lower prices than in the United States. Most of these foreign imports into the U.S. are illegal under current law. However, the volume of imports continues to rise due to the limited enforcement resources of the FDA and the U.S. Customs Service, and there is increased political pressure to permit the imports as a mechanism for expanding access to lower priced medicines. In addition, state and local governments have suggested that they may import or facilitate the import of drugs from 33 Canada for employees covered by state health plans or others, and some already have put such plans in place. Changes in Medicare, Medicaid or similar governmental programs or the amounts paid by those programs for our products may also adversely affect our earnings. These programs are highly regulated, and subject to frequent and substantial changes and cost containment measures. In recent years, changes in these programs have limited and reduced reimbursement to providers. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 or MMA, created a new, voluntary prescription drug benefit under the Social Security Act, or Part D Medicare Drug Benefit. Beginning in 2006, Medicare beneficiaries entitled to Part A or enrolled in Part B, as well as certain other Medicare enrollees, are eligible for the Part D Medicare Drug Benefit. Regulations implementing the Part D Medicare Drug Benefit were issued in January 2005 and the impact of these regulations and how they will be enforced is not yet fully understood by the industry. In addition, the MMA requires that the Federal Trade Commission conduct a study and make recommendations regarding additional legislation that may be needed concerning the Medicare Drug Benefit. We are unable at this time to predict or estimate the financial impact of this new legislation or these regulations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Because our Class B common stock has the right, as a class, to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and has disparate voting rights with respect to all other matters on which our stockholders vote, your voting rights will be limited and the market price of our common stock may be affected adversely. Holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on matters on which our stockholders vote generally. As long as there are at least 325,000 shares of our Class B common stock outstanding, holders of our Class B common stock vote, as a class, to elect a majority of our board of directors. In addition, shares of our Class B common stock are entitled to five votes per share on all other matters to be voted on by stockholders in general. The ability of the holders of our Class B common stock to elect a majority of our directors and the differential in the voting rights between the common stock and the Class B common stock could affect adversely the market price of our common stock. All of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock are currently held by Daniel Glassman, our founder and Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Iris Glassman and Bradley Glassman. Our founder and Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer exercises substantial control over our affairs. At December 31, 2005, Daniel Glassman, our founder and Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and members of his immediate family (including Iris Glassman and Bradley Glassman), were the beneficial owners of approximately 11% or 2,039,455 shares of our outstanding common stock, including the possible beneficial conversion of all outstanding shares of Class B common stock. The Class B common stock currently votes, as a class, to elect a majority of our board of directors, and has five votes per share or approximately 18% of the total voting power, with respect to all other matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote other than the election of the board of directors. As a result, Mr. Glassman exercises control over the election of our board of directors and significantly influences all of our corporate actions. The interests of Mr. Glassman and his family may differ from yours and they may be able to take actions that advance their respective interests to your detriment. Mr. Glassman’s ability to exercise control over the election of the board of directors may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition and could discourage any bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price. Our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may delay or prevent our change of control, even if beneficial to investors. Our charter authorizes us to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as the board of directors may determine from time to time. This authority empowers the board of directors, without further stockholder approval, to issue preferred shares with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could decrease the voting power or other rights of the 34 holders of our common stock. The issuance of such preferred stock could, under some circumstances, discourage, delay or prevent a change of control. To date, we have not issued any shares of preferred stock. In addition, we are and will continue to be, subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Our stock price has fluctuated considerably and may decline. Stock prices of emerging growth pharmaceutical and small-cap companies such as ours fluctuate significantly. In particular, our stock price per share since January 1, 2003, has fluctuated from a low of $7.47 to a high of $32.50. A variety of factors that could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, include: • announcements of developments related to our business; • quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; • general conditions in the pharmaceutical and health care industries; • our ability to react favorably to changes in governmental regulations affecting products we market; • new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; • developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; • current events affecting the political, economic and social situation in the United States and other countries where our subsidiaries operate; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • lack of an active, liquid trading market for our common stock; • acquisitions and financings; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; • class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits; • purchases or sales of blocks of our common stock, including any short-selling activities. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. If our revenues, if any, in any particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our operating results to suffer further. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may fall by a significant amount. In addition, in recent years there have been extreme fluctuations in the stock market in general and the market for shares for emerging growth and specialty pharmaceutical companies in particular. These fluctuations were sometimes unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock. We do not know whether the market price of our common stock will decline or not. Securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits have often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities and we are currently the subject of such lawsuits. Due to the volatility of our stock price, we could be the target of further securities litigation in the future. Securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits are often expensive and time consuming and their outcome may be uncertain. Any additional claims, whether successful or not, could require us to devote significant amounts of monetary or human resources to defend ourselves and could harm our reputation. We may need to spend significant amounts on our legal defense and senior management may be required to divert their attention from other portions of our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If, as a result of any proceeding, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation. 35 The exercise of outstanding warrants and options or the issuance of other shares could reduce the market price of our stock. We currently have outstanding a substantial number of options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. If the holders of all outstanding warrants and options exercised them, we would have approximately an additional 1,882,076 shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2005. The sale, or availability for sale, of such substantial amounts of additional shares of common stock in the public marketplace could reduce the prevailing market price of our securities and otherwise impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. We may sell equity securities in the future, which would cause dilution. We may sell equity securities in the future to obtain funds for general corporate or other purposes. We may sell these securities at a discount to the market price. Any future sales of equity will dilute the holdings of existing stockholders, possibly reducing the value of their investment. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 