Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Some of the statements we make in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are generally identifiable by the use of the words “anticipate,” “will,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “seek” or similar expressions and are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical statements of fact and those regarding our intent, belief, plans or expectations such as statements concerning our operating and growth strategy, projections of revenue, income or loss, information regarding future restaurant openings and capital expenditures, potential increases in food and other operating costs, and our development, expansion, franchising and joint venture plans and future operations. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results in future periods to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Those risks and uncertainties include, among others, the continued deterioration in the United States economy and the related adverse effect on our sales of decreases in consumer spending; our ability to achieve our internal forecast of sales and profitability, our ability to comply with the terms and conditions of our financing agreements; our ability to maintain or increase same store sales and operating margins at our restaurants; the effect that increases in food, labor, energy, interest costs and other expenses have on our results of operations; the effect of increased competition; our ability to successfully implement changes to our supply chain; our ability to sell closed restaurants and other surplus assets; our ability to successfully implement and realize projected benefits of our turnaround and transformation process, including our re-brandings and other initiatives; the resolutions of outstanding legal proceedings; and the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, you should not regard the inclusion of such information as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives and plans will be achieved. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect events and circumstances occurring after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The current economic situation could adversely affect our results of operations. The significant slowdown and volatility in the U.S. economy has and is expected to continue to negatively affect our business. For instance, the soft housing market, tightening credit and increasing unemployment have led to lack of consumer confidence, particularly for consumers that frequent casual dining chains. Continuing weakness in the spending of those consumers has had and could continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Since our business depends upon consumer discretionary spending, further deepening of job losses and home values and tighter access to consumer credit would place additional pressure on our guest counts and reduce our profitability. There can be no assurance that the macroeconomic environment will improve significantly or that the federal government's stimulus efforts will restore consumer confidence, increase liquidity and the availability of credit, or result in lower unemployment. In response to current economic conditions, many of our competitors have increased discounting activities in markets in which we operate. Our response or failure to respond, to such discounting could negatively impact our restaurant sales. In addition, some of our suppliers could experience serious cash flow problems due to the credit market crisis. As a result, they may attempt to increase their prices, pass through increased costs or alter payment terms. Our suppliers may be forced to reduce their production, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. We do not expect that the difficult economic conditions are likely to improve significantly in the near future, and any continuation or worsening of the credit crisis, or even the fear of such a development, could intensify the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on our results of operations. 11 Changing consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns could force us to modify our concepts and menus and could result in a reduction in our revenues. Our O’Charley’s and Ninety Nine restaurants are casual-dining restaurants that feature menus intended to appeal to a broad spectrum of guests. Our Stoney River restaurants are upscale casual-dining steakhouses that feature steaks, fresh seafood and other gourmet entrées. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of these foods and these styles of dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could materially adversely affect our future operating results. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes in consumer preferences, as well as other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. We may be forced to make changes in our concepts and menus in order to respond to changes in consumer tastes or dining patterns. If we change a restaurant concept or menu, we may lose guests who do not prefer the new concept or menu, and may not be able to attract a sufficient new guest base to produce the revenue needed to make the restaurant profitable. In addition, consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of beef, the primary item on our Stoney River menu, food born illnesses or other diseases or by specific events such as E. coli food poisoning or outbreaks of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (mad cow disease) or other diseases. Our success is also dependent to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. A continued deterioration in consumer confidence and these other factors could continue to reduce guest traffic and impose pressures on pricing, harming our results of operations. Our restaurants may not be able to compete successfully with other restaurants, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, service, location, nutritional and dietary trends and food quality, and there are many well-established competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than us, including a large number of national and regional restaurant chains. Some of our competitors have been in existence for a substantially longer period than us and may be better established in the markets where our restaurants are or may be located. Some of our competitors advertise on national television, which may provide them with greater awareness and name recognition than we can achieve through our advertising efforts. Our success to drive incremental sales or maintain sales levels is dependent upon our operational execution and marketing. If our marketing promotions fail to achieve a competitive advantage we may lose market share. Additionally, we face increasing competition from the convergence of restaurant, deli and grocery services, as supermarkets and grocery stores offer “convenient meals” in the form of improved entrées and side dishes in their deli sections. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully in new and existing markets, our results of operations will be adversely affected. To the extent that we open restaurants in larger cities and metropolitan areas, we expect competition to be more intense in those markets. We also compete with other restaurants for experienced management personnel and hourly team members and with other restaurants and retail establishments for quality sites. The effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs could have a material effect on our operating results. Our revenues are heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful, which may lead us to fail to attract new guests and retain existing guests. If our marketing and advertising programs are unsuccessful, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We believe that the current economic environment and the competitive landscape in the casual dining restaurant industry have made our customers more value-conscious, and that we must respond to new market conditions and consumers' demand for superior value for the money and quality. This strategy is reflected in, among other things, our O’Charley’s and Ninety Nine restaurants, menu offerings and our value-oriented pricing and menu changes at our Stoney River restaurants. If we are unable to successfully execute this strategy, our operating margins and financial results could be adversely affected. We may incur costs or liabilities and lose revenue as the result of existing or proposed government laws or regulation. Our restaurants are subject to extensive federal, state and local government laws and regulation, including regulations related to the preparation and sale of food (such as regulations regarding labeling, allergens content, trans fat content and other menu information regarding nutrition), the sale of alcoholic beverages, employment matters (such as minimum wage, employee health insurance, organizing and collective bargaining, fair employment practices, and employee health and safety), zoning and building codes and other health, sanitation and safety matters. All of these regulations impact not only our current restaurant operations but also our ability to open new restaurants. We will be required to comply with applicable state and local regulations in any new locations into which we expand. Any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining licenses, permits or approvals in such new locations could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant in a particular area or reduce operations at an existing location, either of which could materially and adversely affect our growth and results of operations. The revenues and costs of operating our restaurants may be adversely effected if there are changes in laws governing minimum hourly wages or tip credits, labor or collective bargaining laws, nutritional labeling, workers’ compensation insurance rates, employee health insurance, unemployment tax rates, sales taxes, corporate income tax or other laws and regulations, such as the federal Americans with Disabilities Act and the Family Medical Leave Act. If any of the above costs increase, we cannot assure that we will be able to offset the increase by increasing our menu prices or by other means, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 12 If we are unable to comply with our financial covenants, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. At December 27, 2009, we had a total of $131.9 million in debt and capitalized lease obligations, which includes $125.0 million pursuant to our subordinated notes due 2013. We had no amounts outstanding on our revolving credit facility at December 27, 2009. Our credit facility contains customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on dividends, repurchases of capital stock, sale leaseback transactions, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and mergers, acquisitions and asset sales. In addition, our credit facility contains certain financial covenants, including an adjusted debt to EBITDAR ratio, a senior secured leverage ratio, a fixed-charge coverage ratio and capital expenditures ratio. As of the end of our 2009 fiscal year, there were no defaults under our credit facility and we were in compliance with all covenants. Although we currently project that we will remain in compliance with these covenants there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with these covenants. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2009, we entered into our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement to enhance our financial flexibility. See Note 26 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion relating to this matter. If we were to violate any of our covenants under our credit facility there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining amendments or waivers on acceptable terms. Any waiver or amendment may result in future increases in the interest costs and possible additional restrictions under our credit facility. If we were unable to obtain a waiver or negotiate an amendment on acceptable terms and a default were to occur under our credit facility, such default would also constitute a default under certain conditions under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes. In addition, we have four separate lease agreements that cover lease arrangements for an aggregate of 30 of our Ninety Nine restaurants, each of which contains a fixed charge covenant calculation. Each of the four restaurant groups are subject to an annual fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.50 to 1.00. The fixed charge coverage ratio for one of the leases, which includes six Ninety Nine restaurants, was 1.48 to 1.00, which was below the required 1.50 to 1.00 minimum. In order to remain in compliance, we were required to make a rent prepayment of approximately $111,000. The other three leases covering the remaining 24 restaurants exceeded the 1.50 to 1.00 minimum. Failure to remain in compliance with these lease covenants could adversely impact our results of operations. Our support centers could experience a natural or man-made disaster, resulting in a loss of data and information, and disruption of our business. Successful operation of our restaurants depends upon the oversight, information systems and administrative support that they receive from our three support centers. For example, our information systems provide point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, financial reporting, various other processes and transactions and maintaining operational efficiencies. We have developed and tested a Disaster Recovery Plan to respond to the loss of information systems and administrative support in the event of natural and man-made disasters. This plan allows us to fully restore our systems in a remote location within three business days. If the Disaster Recovery Plan were to fail, the loss of data and other capabilities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and the reliability of our financial information. We may experience higher operating costs, which would adversely affect our operating results, if we cannot increase menu prices to cover them. Our operating results are significantly dependent on our ability to anticipate and react to increases in food, labor, team member benefits, energy and other costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products and seasonality may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, because the pricing strategy at our O’Charley’s and Ninety Nine restaurants is intended to provide an attractive price-to-value relationship, we may not be able to pass along price increases to our guests without adversely impacting our guest counts. We compete with other restaurants for experienced management personnel and hourly team members. Each of our concepts offers medical benefits to hourly team members. Increases in health care costs, changes in state or federal minimum wage laws, or changes in legal requirements relating to employee benefits would likely cause an increase in our labor costs. We cannot assure that we will be able to offset increased wage and benefit costs through our purchasing and hiring practices or menu price increases, particularly over the short term. As a result, increases in wages and benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 In addition, the current premiums that we pay for our insurance (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property, health, and directors’ and officers’ liability) may increase annually, thereby further increasing our costs. The dollar amount of claims that we actually experience under our workers’ compensation and general liability insurance, for which we carry high per-claim deductibles, may also increase at any time, thereby further increasing our costs. Further, the decreased availability of property and liability insurance has the potential to negatively impact the cost of premiums and the magnitude of uninsured losses, particularly if the insurance carriers themselves became financially unstable. We outsource certain business processes to third-party vendors that subject us to risks, including disruptions in business and increased costs. Some business processes that are dependent on technology are outsourced to third parties. Such processes include gift card tracking and authorization, credit card authorization and processing, certain payroll processes and benefit administrators. We make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services are observing proper internal control practices, including secure data transfers between us and the third-party vendor; however, there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or ability to accomplish our financial and management reporting. Failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of our guests and teammates could expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and teammates both internally and with third party vendors. The use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels, as well as by certain third party contracts. If our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as operations, results of operations and financial condition, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, or changes are imposed by our business partners, we may incur additional costs to ensure it remains in compliance. We may incur costs or liabilities as a result of litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues that can also cause guests to avoid our restaurants. We are subject to complaints or litigation from time to time from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality or health concerns. Litigation or adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are subject to litigation under “dram shop’’ laws that allow a person to sue us based on any injury or death caused by an intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our restaurants. While we maintain insurance for lawsuits under a “dram shop” law or alleging illness or injury from food, we have significant deductibles under such insurance and any such litigation may result in a verdict in excess of our liability insurance policy limits, which could result in substantial liability for us and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are a defendant from time to time in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, including claims relating to injury; claims relating to workplace and employment matters, including wage and hour disputes, discrimination claims and similar matters; claims resulting from “slip and fall” accidents; claims relating to lease and contractual obligations; claims relating to our joint venture or franchising initiatives; and claims from guests or employees alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We do not believe that any of the legal proceedings pending against us as of the date of this report will have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or financial condition. We may incur liabilities, receive benefits, settle disputes, sustain judgments, or accrue expenses relating to legal proceedings in a particular fiscal quarter which may adversely affect our results of operations, or on occasion, receive settlements that favorably affect results of operations. Our continued growth depends on our ability to open new restaurants and operate our new restaurants profitably, which in turn depends upon our continued access to capital. A significant portion of our historical growth has been due to opening new restaurants. We have substantially reduced our new restaurant growth over the past several years as we formulated our turnaround plan and more recently due to the deteriorating economic environment. We opened one new Ninety Nine restaurant and one new Stoney River restaurant in 2009. We do not plan to open any new restaurants in 2010. Our ability to operate new restaurants successfully depends on a number of factors, such as: • the macroeconomic environment, including consumer confidence and discretionary spending; • the selection and availability of quality restaurant sites; • our ability to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms; 14 • our ability to hire, train and retain the skilled management and other personnel necessary to open, manage and operate new restaurants; • our ability to secure the governmental permits and approvals required to open new restaurants; • our ability to manage the amount of time and money required to build and open new restaurants, including the possibility that adverse weather conditions may delay construction and the opening of new restaurants; and • the availability of adequate financing. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, we have historically generated insufficient cash flow from operations to fund our working capital and capital expenditures and, accordingly, our ability to open new restaurants and our ability to grow, as well as our ability to meet other anticipated capital needs, may be dependent on our continued access to external financing, including borrowings under our credit facility and financing obtained in the capital markets. Our ability to make borrowings under our credit facility will require, among other things, that we comply with certain financial and other covenants, and we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that we will be successful in opening new restaurants at such time we decide to resume new restaurant growth. Furthermore, we cannot be assured that our new restaurants will generate revenues or profit margins consistent with those of our existing restaurants, or that any new restaurants will be operated profitably. Our success depends on our ability to execute our strategic plan and to realize our anticipated supply chain efficiencies. Our strategic plan involves a number of initiatives intended to improve our restaurant level economics and enhance guest loyalty. Our strategic plan involves significant investments in our management team and our restaurants and the success of the strategic plan depends on our ability to successfully implement the plan and realize the projected return on our investment. Our strategy also includes improving our restaurant level economics, and we believe that effective supply chain management will contribute significantly to achieving this goal. However, a failure to successfully implement and realize projected savings from these actions could adversely affect the results of our strategic plans. Our restaurants are concentrated geographically; if any one of the regions in which our restaurants are located experiences an economic downturn, adverse weather or other material change, our business results may suffer. Our O’Charley’s restaurants are located in the Eastern, Southeastern, and Midwestern United States. Our Ninety Nine restaurants are located primarily in the Northeastern United States. As of December 27, 2009, we operated 40 of our 235 O’Charley’s restaurants in Tennessee and 61 of our 116 Ninety Nine restaurants in Massachusetts. As a result, our business and our financial or operating results may be materially adversely affected by adverse economic, weather or business conditions in these markets, as well as in other geographic regions in which we operate restaurants. Any disruption in manufacturing and distribution operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our restaurants. We historically operated a commissary in Nashville, Tennessee through which we manufactured, purchased, and distributed a substantial majority of the food products and supplies for our O’Charley’s and Stoney River restaurants and we had also operated a distribution facility in Bellingham, Massachusetts, through which we distributed a portion of the food products and supplies for our Ninety Nine restaurants. During the second quarter of 2007, we completed the sale of our commissary facility in Nashville, Tennessee and the outsourcing of various food processing and distribution activities performed at our commissary and distribution facilities in Nashville, Tennessee and Woburn, Massachusetts. During the third quarter of 2009, we completed the sale of our distribution operations in Bellingham, Massachusetts and now outsource distribution services to our Ninety Nine restaurants. Following the sale of our commissary and Bellingham, Massachusetts distribution operations, we outsourced the manufacture of all food products, as well as the distribution and transportation services to the O’Charley’s, Ninety Nine and Stoney River brands, to third parties. Since the transition is now complete, we are now dependant upon the performance of third-party manufacturers and distributors. Any disruptions to their operations could have a material impact on our future reported results. We rely heavily on technology in our business, and any interruption, failure or breach of security of that technology could negatively affect our ability to effectively operate our business. If we experience problems with our ability to effectively manage our information systems it could disrupt our operations. Our business depends on information systems that assist us in, among other things, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, financial reporting, various other processes and transactions and maintaining operational efficiencies. All of these processes depend upon the reliability and capacity of these information systems. These systems include software developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers. To the extent that these external contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems, our operations could be negatively affected. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. In addition, a breach of security could cause delays in customer service, hinder operational efficiencies and could require a significant investment to remediate the problem. If we are unable to successfully implement, maintain, secure, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions and increases in administrative expenses. 15 Failure to comply with current regulatory requirements will result in additional expenses and may adversely affect us. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of our management’s attention and greater utilization of external resources. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, including any standards or regulations approved under the current government administration. This investment has resulted, and we expect will continue to result, in increased general and administrative expenses. We are dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining qualified restaurant employees. Availability of staff varies widely from location to location. Many staff members are in entry-level or part-time positions, typically with high rates of turnover. Even though recent trends in employee turnover have been favorable, if restaurant management and staff turnover were to increase, we could suffer higher direct costs associated with recruiting, training and retaining replacement personnel. Management turnover as well as general shortages in the labor pool can cause our restaurants to be operated with reduced staff, which negatively affects our ability to provide appropriate service levels to our customers. Competition for qualified employees exerts upward pressure on wages paid to attract such personnel, resulting in higher labor costs, together with greater recruiting and training expenses. We are dependent upon our senior management team to execute our business strategy. Our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy are highly dependent on the efforts of our senior management team. Many of the members of our senior management team do not have long tenures with us. Although the members of our senior management team have employment agreements with us, these agreements may not provide sufficient incentives for these officers to continue employment with us. Additionally, the difficult economy has impacted our senior executives, as we did not pay any bonuses to senior executives in 2007 and 2008 and froze base salaries in 2008 and 2009 (other than in connection with promotions). The loss of one or more of the members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of the members of our senior management team. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 