Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company’s actual results and could cause the Company’s actual consolidated results for the Company’s current year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Risks Related to the Company The Company has a long history of net losses and no recent history of profitability, and it may not be profitable in the future. The Company has not had an operating business since 2002. The Company reported net losses of $3.6 million and $1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Over the last decade, the Company’s board of directors has considered various alternative courses of action for the Company, including possibly acquiring or combining with one or more operating businesses, and it has reviewed and analyzed a number of proposed transactions. Although in March 2013 the Company acquired a majority interest in Three Lions, a start-up television production company with a particular emphasis on branded entertainment and special events, there can be no assurance that this investment will be successful or profitable. 3 Table of Contents The Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition will depend principally on the success of Three Lions. On March 18, 2013, the Company contributed $3.15 million to Three Lions in exchange for membership units representing 60% of the economic returns of Three Lions, including certain preferences with respect to common holders on operating returns and on a liquidation or sale of Three Lions. In respect of such previously issued membership units, the Company made a second capital contribution to Three Lions in the amount of $1.85 million on April 26, 2013, and a third and final capital contribution to Three Lions in the amount of $3.5 million on October 2, 2013. As a result of these transactions, the Company’s business substantially consists of acting as the majority equityholder of, and holding a membership interest in, Three Lions. Accordingly, the Company’s business results of operations and financial condition depend to a large degree on the successful operations of Three Lions. The Company expect Three Lions in the future to provide funds to pay the Company’s operating costs, including the cost of preparing and filing reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If Three Lions does not provide these funds, the Company’s overhead and net losses may increase, and its financial position may be materially adversely affected. Three Lions is recently formed, has no operating history and has never been profitable. Three Lions may never become profitable, and it could go out of business. Three Lions was formed on August 31, 2012. At the present time, it has no successful operating history. From its inception, Three Lions has generated no revenue and there can be no guarantee that it will ever generate revenue or become profitable. Three Lions’ future profitability will depend upon its ability to build relationships with content partners, sponsors and distributors; to monetize sponsorship, licensing and other agreements; and to control production-related and other expenses. There is no guarantee that Three Lions will meet all or any of these goals, and accordingly, there is no assurance that it will ever become a profitable company. If Three Lions fails to become profitable, it could go out of business, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Three Lions faces intense competition. The market for entertainment is highly competitive. Three Lions faces significant competition from both established studios and other independent producers with respect to sponsorship relationships, access to talent and distribution of programming. The costs of entry into the independent television production market are relatively low, and there may not be significant barriers to entry. Competition for television distribution and sponsorship dollars is based primarily on audience size, demographic composition and viewer response to sponsors’ products and services. Television programming produced by Three Lions will compete directly for viewers, distribution and sponsorship dollars with other special event and pop culture programming, as well as with general programming and all other competing forms of media. Many competitors of Three Lions are larger with established brand names, greater resources and access to established distribution channels, and therefore may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to marketing and distribution of their products, generate greater brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than Three Lions. As a result, the revenues, results of operation and financial position of Three Lions may be materially adversely affected. The television industry is rapidly evolving, and recent trends have shown that audience response to both traditional and emerging distribution channels is volatile and difficult to predict. The entertainment industry in general and the television industry in particular continue to undergo significant changes, due both to shifting consumer tastes and to technological developments. New technologies, such as video-on-demand and Internet distribution of programming, have provided production companies with new channels through which to distribute their products. Accurately forecasting the changing expectations of television audiences and market demand within these new channels has proven challenging. The Company cannot accurately predict the overall effect that shifting audience tastes, technological change or the availability of alternative forms of entertainment may have on Three Lions. In addition to uncertainty regarding audience demand for Three Lions’ programming, there is uncertainty regarding the extent to which other developing distribution channels, including video-on-demand and Internet distribution of television, will gain market share and whether Three Lions will be successful in exploiting the business opportunities they provide. The failure to secure sufficient long-term agreements with sponsors, content partners and distributors would harm Three Lions. Three Lions does not have sufficient long-term agreements with sponsors, content partners or distributors for its programming and other content, and there can be no assurance that Three Lions will succeed in its efforts to enter into such 4 Table of Contents agreements. If Three Lions is unable to secure sufficient long-term agreements with sponsors, content partners or distributors, or if any major sponsor, content partner or distributor that Three Lions is able to secure were to scale back or terminate its relationship with Three Lions, it could have a material adverse effect on Three Lions’ and the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for advertising and competition for advertising dollars will impact Three Lions. Like other media companies, Three Lions is and will continue to be impacted by fluctuations in demand for advertising. Advertising revenue is susceptible to fluctuations in economic cycles. Expenditures by advertisers generally reflect economic conditions and declines in economic conditions adversely affect demand for advertising and may impact the levels of advertising revenue that Three Lions is able to generate. The growth in alternative forms of media has also led to increased competition for advertising dollars, which could in turn reduce Three Lions’ revenue from advertising. There can be no assurance that our investment in Three Lions will result in earnings or dividends to the Company. Although the Company believes that Three Lions’ branded entertainment concept offers us the opportunity for significantly improved operating results in future quarters, no assurance can be given that Three Lions will successfully execute its strategy. Therefore, no assurance can be given that Three Lions, or the Company, will ever operate on a profitable basis, as such performance is subject to numerous variables and uncertainties, many of which are out of the Company’s control. To the extent that Three Lions does become profitable, its revenues will depend significantly upon the success of the television programming and other content it produces. Accordingly, its revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Any quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may not match the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate significantly. Three Lions may not have sufficient cash flow to meet its operational needs. At December 31, 2013, Three Lions had a cash balance of approximately $4.3 million. Pursuant to the LLC Agreement, Three Lions raised an additional $3.7 million in scheduled capital contributions from its members in the first week of October 2013, but no further capital contributions are scheduled or required of Three Lions’ members under the LLC Agreement. In addition, OA3, a related party, is required under the LLC Agreement to make available to Three Lions, upon the request of its chief executive officer, a revolving loan facility in a principal amount not to exceed $6.0 million on the terms set forth in the LLC Agreement. These amounts may be insufficient to meet Three Lions’ start-up, operating and production expenses. Three Lions may need or choose to obtain additional financing by selling securities or by entering into credit agreements. Three Lions may not be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, Three Lions may be required to curtail its operations until such funds are available to move forward with its television programming, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Since the Company is expecting that its investment in Three Lions would, in the future, provide funds to pay its operating costs, if Three Lions does not provide these funds, the Company’s overhead and net losses may increase and its financial position may be materially adversely affected. The Company’s business would be adversely affected if Three Lions lost key members of its executive management team. Three Lions is highly dependent on the efforts and performance of its executive management team. The loss of any key members of this team could result in Three Lions’ inability to manage its operations effectively or to execute its business strategy. The failure to maintain or replace any such individuals could have a material adverse effect on Three Lions and the Company. Affiliates of Overseas Toys control the Company and may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders in the future. Overseas Toys beneficially owns approximately 87.6% of the Company’s common stock. As a result, Overseas Toys is able to control the election of the Company’s directors, determine its corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of the Company’s other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to its stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. This concentrated ownership position limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, the Company may take actions that some of its stockholders do not view as beneficial. Overseas Toys is controlled by an affiliate of The Yucaipa Companies, or Yucaipa. Four of the Company’s six directors are also current or former directors or executive officers of, or advisors to, Yucaipa or certain of its portfolio companies. Overseas Toys also has sufficient voting power to amend the Company’s organizational documents. The interests of 5 Table of Contents Overseas Toys may not coincide with the interests of other holders of the Company’s common stock. Additionally, Yucaipa and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with the Company. Yucaipa and its affiliates may also pursue, for their own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to the Company’s business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to the Company. So long as Overseas Toys continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control the Company’s decisions, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions that the Company’s other stockholders may desire. The Company may have a limited ability to use some or all of its net operating loss carryforwards in the future. As a result of prior operating losses, the Company has net operating loss, or “NOL,” carryforwards for federal income tax purposes. The ability to utilize its NOL carryforwards to reduce taxable income in future years could become subject to significant limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if the Company undergoes an ownership change. The Company would undergo an ownership change if, among other things, the stockholders who own, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of its common stock, or are otherwise treated as “5% shareholders” under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, increase their aggregate percentage ownership of the Company’s stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOL carryforwards. The annual limitation is generally equal to the value of the stock of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate for the month in which the ownership change occurs (the long-term tax-exempt rate for April 2014 is 3.56%). Any unused annual limitation may generally be carried over to later years until the NOL carryforwards expire. While the Company does not believe that it’s recently completed rights offering and the issuance of shares pursuant to exercised subscription rights triggered an ownership change upon the consummation of the rights offering, they could increase the likelihood that the Company may undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code in the future. The Company is dependent on certain key personnel. The Company is dependent on several key personnel, including its directors. In light of the Company’s uncertain outlook, there is no assurance that its key personnel can be retained. The loss of the services of the Company’s key personnel would harm it. In addition, the Company has a limited number of personnel. As such, this presents a challenge in maintaining compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If Section 404 compliance is not properly maintained, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting may be adversely affected. As a smaller reporting company, the Company is not required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Company’s auditors are not required to attest to the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. As a result, investors may become less comfortable with the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and the risk that material weakness or other deficiencies in internal controls go undetected may increase. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of the Company’s Common Stock The market price of the Company’s common stock could fluctuate in the future and may decline. The market price for the Company’s common stock has fluctuated in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future, including: • stockholder sentiment regarding the likelihood of success of the Company’s investment in Three Lions; • the ability of Three Lions to generate revenue and distribute dividends to the Company and its other members; • announcements of developments related to the Company’s or Three Lions’ business; • fluctuations in the Company’s or Three Lions’ operations; 6 Table of Contents • issuances of a substantial number of shares of the Company’s common stock into the marketplace, including upon the exercise of subscription rights; • general conditions in Three Lions’ industry, the domestic economy or the worldwide economy; • a shortfall in earnings compared to the Company’s stockholders’ expectations; • announcements of new acquisitions or dispositions; and • an outbreak of war or hostilities. Due to these factors, the price of the Company’s stock may decline and investors may be unable to resell their shares of the Company’s stock for a profit. In addition, the stock market experiences extreme volatility that often is unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause the Company’s stock price to decline regardless of its performance. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock is limited and if you invest you may have difficulty selling your shares in the future at the times and in the amounts you might want. While the Company’s common stock is quoted on the OTCQB Marketplace under the symbol “SWWI,” its stock is not listed on any stock exchange. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock is modest. The limited trading market for its common stock may lead to exaggerated fluctuations in market prices and possible market inefficiencies, as compared to a more actively traded stock. It may also make it more difficult to dispose of the Company’s common stock at expected prices or at all, especially for holders seeking to dispose of a large number of its stock. Forward Looking Information From time to time, the Company may provide forward looking information such as forecasts of expected future performance or statements about the Company’s plans and objectives. This information may be contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, or oral statements by the officers of the Company. The Company desires to take advantage of the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and these risk factors are intended to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 