Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Some of the statements we make in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are generally identifiable by the use of the words “anticipate,” “will,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “seek” or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical statements of fact and those regarding our intent, belief, plans or expectations such as statements concerning our operating and growth strategy, projections of revenue, income or loss, information regarding future restaurant openings and capital expenditures, potential increases in food and other operating costs, and our development, expansion, franchising and joint venture plans and future operations. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results in future periods to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Those risks and uncertainties include, among others, the adverse effect on our results from operations of decreases in consumer spending; our ability to maintain or increase same store sales and operating margins at our restaurants; the effect that increases in food, labor, energy, interest costs and other expenses have on our results of operations; our ability to successfully implement changes to our supply chain; our ability to sell closed restaurants and other surplus assets; our ability to comply with the terms and conditions of our financing agreements; the effect of increased competition; our ability to successfully implement and realize projected benefits of our turnaround and transformation process, including our re-brandings and other initiatives; the resolutions of outstanding legal proceedings; and the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, you should not regard the inclusion of such information as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives and plans will be achieved. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect events and circumstances occurring after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or currently deemed immaterial could also impair our business operations. The continuing deterioration in U.S. economic conditions is expected to adversely affect our results of operations. The continuing deterioration in the U.S. economy has and is expected to continue to negatively affect our business. For instance, the dramatic decline in the housing market, tightening credit and increasing unemployment have led to lack of consumer confidence, particularly for consumers that frequent casual dining chains. Continuing weakness in the spending of those consumers has had and could continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, some of our suppliers could experience serious cash flow problems due to the credit market crisis. As a result, they may attempt to increase their prices, pass through increased costs or alter payment terms. Our suppliers may be forced to reduce their production, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. We do not expect that the difficult economic conditions are likely to improve significantly in the near future, and any continuation or worsening of the credit crisis, or even the fear of such a development, could intensify the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on our results of operations. 9 If we are unable to comply with our financial covenants, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. At December 28, 2008, we had a total of $163.1 million in debt and capitalized lease obligations, which includes $23.8 million outstanding under our credit facility and $125.0 million pursuant to our senior subordinated notes due 2013. Our credit facility contains customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on dividends, repurchases of capital stock, sale leaseback transactions, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and mergers, acquisitions and asset sales. In addition, our credit facility contains certain financial covenants, including an adjusted debt to EBITDAR ratio, a senior secured leverage ratio, a fixed-charge coverage ratio and capital expenditures ratio. In December 2008, we amended our credit facility to revise certain financial covenants. As of the end of our 2008 fiscal year, there were no defaults under our credit facility and we were in compliance with all covenants. Although we currently project that we will remain in compliance with these covenants there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with these covenants. If we were to violate any of our covenants under our credit facility there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining amendments or waivers on acceptable terms. Any waiver or amendment may result in future increases in the interest costs and possible additional restrictions under our credit facility. If we were unable to obtain a waiver or negotiate an amendment on acceptable terms and a default were to occur under our credit facility, such default would also constitute a default under certain conditions under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes. We also have four separate lease agreements for an aggregate of 30 of our Ninety Nine Restaurants properties which contain financial covenants. Each of the four restaurant groups are subject to an annual fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.50 to 1.00. Although we currently project that we will remain in compliance with these covenants, if we are unable to remain in compliance with these covenants, our liquidity and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our continued growth depends on our ability to open new restaurants and operate our new restaurants profitably, which in turn depends upon our continued access to capital. A significant portion of our historical growth has been due to opening new restaurants. We have substantially reduced our new restaurant growth over the past several years as we formulated our turnaround plan and more recently due to the deteriorating economic environment. We opened four new company-owned O’Charley’s restaurants, two new Ninety Nine restaurants, and one new Stoney River restaurant in 2008. We currently plan to open no new company-owned O’Charley’s restaurants, one new Ninety Nine restaurant, and one new Stoney River restaurant in 2009. Our ability to open new restaurants successfully depends on a number of factors, such as: • the selection and availability of quality restaurant sites; • our ability to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms; • our ability to hire, train and retain the skilled management and other personnel necessary to open, manage and operate new restaurants; • our ability to secure the governmental permits and approvals required to open new restaurants; • our ability to manage the amount of time and money required to build and open new restaurants, including the possibility that adverse weather conditions may delay construction and the opening of new restaurants; and • the availability of adequate financing. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, we have historically generated insufficient cash flow from operations to fund our working capital and capital expenditures and, accordingly, our ability to open new restaurants and our ability to grow, as well as our ability to meet other anticipated capital needs, may be dependent on our continued access to external financing, including borrowings under our credit facility and financing obtained in the capital markets. Our ability to make borrowings under our credit facility will require, among other things, that we comply with certain financial and other covenants, and we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that we will be successful in opening new restaurants at such time we decide to resume new restaurant growth. Furthermore, we cannot be assured that our new restaurants will generate revenues or profit margins consistent with those of our existing restaurants, or that any new restaurants will be operated profitably. Our success depends on our ability to execute our strategic plan and to realize our anticipated supply chain efficiencies. Our strategic plan involves a number of initiatives intended to improve our restaurant level economics and enhance guest loyalty. Our strategic plan involves significant investments in our management team and our restaurants and the success of the strategic plan depends on our ability to successfully implement the plan and realize the projected return on our investment. As part of our strategic plan, we have developed new prototype restaurants and we have re-branded many of our existing O’Charley’s and Ninety Nine restaurants. These re-branding efforts include substantial capital investment in remodeling the restaurants. As of December 28, 2008, we have completed 62 re-brandings at O’Charley’s restaurants and 62 re-brandings at Ninety Nine restaurants since inception of our re-branding programs. However, we have decided to suspend our re-branding initiatives until economic conditions improve in order to preserve cash and pay down debt. Our strategy also includes improving our restaurant level economics, and we believe that effective supply chain management will contribute significantly to achieving this goal. However, a failure to successfully implement and realize projected savings from these actions could adversely affect the results of our strategic plans. 10 Changing consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns could force us to modify our concepts and menus and could result in a reduction in our revenues. Our O’Charley’s and Ninety Nine restaurants are casual dining restaurants that feature menus intended to appeal to a broad spectrum of guests. Our Stoney River restaurants are upscale steakhouses that feature steaks, fresh seafood and other gourmet entrees. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of these foods and these styles of dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could materially adversely affect our future operating results. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes in consumer preferences, as well as other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. We may be forced to make changes in our concepts and menus in order to respond to changes in consumer tastes or dining patterns. If we change a restaurant concept or menu, we may lose guests who do not prefer the new concept or menu, and may not be able to attract a sufficient new guest base to produce the revenue needed to make the restaurant profitable. In addition, consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of beef, the primary item on our Stoney River menu, food born illnesses or other diseases or by specific events such as E. coli food poisoning or outbreaks of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (mad cow disease) or other diseases. Our success is also dependent to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. A continued deterioration in consumer confidence and these other factors could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could harm our results of operations. We may experience higher operating costs, which would adversely affect our operating results, if we cannot increase menu prices to cover them. Our operating results are significantly dependent on our ability to anticipate and react to increases in food, labor, team member benefits, energy and other costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions (including hurricanes), governmental regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products and seasonality may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, because the pricing strategy at our O’Charley’s and Ninety Nine restaurants is intended to provide an attractive price-to-value relationship, we may not be able to pass along price increases to our guests without adversely impacting our guest counts. We compete with other restaurants for experienced management personnel and hourly team members. Each of our concepts offers medical benefits to hourly team members. Increases in health care costs, changes in state or federal minimum wage laws, or changes in legal requirements relating to employee benefits would likely cause an increase in our labor costs. We cannot assure that we will be able to offset increased wage and benefit costs through our purchasing and hiring practices or menu price increases, particularly over the short term. As a result, increases in wages and benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our restaurants are concentrated geographically; if any one of the regions in which our restaurants are located experiences an economic downturn, adverse weather or other material change, our business results may suffer. Our O’Charley’s restaurants are located in the Southeastern, Eastern, and Midwestern United States. Our Ninety Nine restaurants are located primarily in the Northeastern United States. As of December 28, 2008, we operated 40 of our 232 O’Charley’s restaurants in Tennessee and 62 of our 116 Ninety Nine restaurants in Massachusetts. As a result, our business and our financial or operating results may be materially adversely affected by adverse economic, weather or business conditions in these markets, as well as in other geographic regions in which we operate restaurants. Our restaurants may not be able to compete successfully with other restaurants, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, service, location, nutritional and dietary trends and food quality, and there are many well-established competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than us, including a large number of national and regional restaurant chains. Some of our competitors have been in existence for a substantially longer period than us and may be better established in the markets where our restaurants are or may be located. Some of our competitors advertise on national television, which may provide them with greater awareness and name recognition than we can achieve through our advertising efforts. Additionally, we face increasing competition from the convergence of restaurant, deli and grocery services, as supermarkets and grocery stores offer “convenient meals” in the form of improved entrees and side dishes in their deli sections. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully in new and existing markets, our results of operations will be adversely affected. To the extent that we open restaurants in larger cities and metropolitan areas, we expect competition to be more intense in those markets. We also compete with other restaurants for experienced management personnel and hourly team members and with other restaurants and retail establishments for quality sites. Any disruption in manufacturing and distribution operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our restaurants. We historically operated a commissary in Nashville, Tennessee through which we manufactured, purchased, and distributed a substantial majority of the food products and supplies for our O’Charley’s and Stoney River restaurants. We currently operate a distribution facility in Bellingham, Massachusetts, through which we distribute a portion of the food products and supplies for our Ninety Nine restaurants. During the second quarter of 2007, we completed the sale of our commissary facility in Nashville, Tennessee and the outsourcing of various food processing and distribution activities performed at our commissary and distribution facilities in Nashville, Tennessee and Woburn, Massachusetts. 11 Following the sale of our commissary, we outsourced the manufacture of certain food products and our signature yeast rolls, as well as the distribution and transportation services to the O’Charley’s and Stoney River brands, to third parties. Since the transition is now complete, we are now dependant upon the performance of third-party manufacturers and distributors. Any disruptions to their operations could have a material impact on our future reported results. If the operation of our Bellingham, Massachusetts distribution center is disrupted, we may not be able to deliver food and supplies to our Ninety Nine restaurants. Any disruption in our distribution operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our Ninety Nine restaurants and would adversely affect our results of operations. We rely heavily on technology in our business, and any interruption, failure or breach of security of that technology could negatively affect our ability to effectively operate our business. If we experience problems with our ability to effectively manage our information systems it could disrupt our operations. Our business depends on information systems that assist us in, among other things, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, financial reporting, various other processes and transactions and maintaining operational efficiencies. All of these processes depend upon the reliability and capacity of these information systems. These systems include software developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers. To the extent that these external contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems, our operations could be negatively affected. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. In addition, a breach of security could cause delays in customer service, hinder operational efficiencies and could require a significant investment to remediate the problem. If we are unable to successfully implement, maintain, secure, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions and increases in administrative expenses. We may incur costs or liabilities and lose revenue as the result of government regulation. Our restaurants are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulation, including regulations related to the preparation and sale of food (such as regulations regarding labeling, allergens content, trans fat content and other menu information regarding nutrition), the sale of alcoholic beverages, zoning and building codes and other health, sanitation and safety matters. All of these regulations impact not only our current restaurant operations but also our ability to open new restaurants. We will be required to comply with applicable state and local regulations in any new locations into which we expand. Any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining licenses, permits or approvals in such new locations could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant in a particular area or reduce operations at an existing location, either of which could materially and adversely affect our growth and results of operations. In addition, our Bellingham, Massachusetts distribution center is licensed and subject to regulation by state and local agencies. Our failure to obtain or retain federal, state or local licenses for our Bellingham, Massachusetts distribution center or to comply with applicable regulations could adversely affect its operations and disrupt delivery of food and other products to our restaurants. The costs of operating our restaurants may increase if there are changes in laws governing minimum hourly wages or tip credits, labor or collective bargaining laws, workers’ compensation insurance rates, unemployment tax rates, sales taxes, corporate income tax or other laws and regulations, such as the federal Americans with Disabilities Act and the Family Medical Leave Act. If any of the above costs increase, we cannot assure that we will be able to offset the increase by increasing our menu prices or by other means, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur costs or liabilities as a result of litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues that can also cause guests to avoid our restaurants. We are subject to complaints or litigation from time to time from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality or health concerns. Litigation or adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are subject to litigation under “dram shop’’ laws that allow a person to sue us based on any injury or death caused by an intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our restaurants. While we maintain insurance for lawsuits under a dram shop law or alleging illness or injury from food, we have significant deductibles under such insurance and any such litigation may result in a verdict in excess of our liability insurance policy limits, which could result in substantial liability for us and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are a defendant from time to time in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, including claims relating to injury; claims relating to workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters; claims resulting from “slip and fall” accidents; claims relating to lease and contractual obligations; claims relating to our joint venture or franchising initiatives; and claims from guests or employees alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We do not believe that any of the legal proceedings pending against us as of the date of this report will have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or financial condition. We may incur liabilities, receive benefits, settle disputes, sustain judgments, or accrue expenses relating to legal proceedings in a particular fiscal quarter which may adversely affect our results of operations, or on occasion, receive settlements that favorably affect results of operations. Failure to comply with current regulatory requirements will result in additional expenses and may adversely affect us. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of our management’s attention and greater utilization of external resources. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, including any standards or regulations approved under the current government administration. This investment has resulted, 12 and we expect will continue to result, in increased general and administrative expenses. It also takes management’s time and attention away from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We are dependent upon our senior management team to execute our business strategy. Our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy are highly dependent on the efforts of our senior management team. Many of the members of our senior management team do not have long tenures with us. Although the members of our senior management team have employment agreements with us, these agreements may not provide sufficient incentives for these officers to continue employment with us. The loss of one or more of the members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of the members of our senior management team. In February 2009, our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and President retired after serving 25 years with us. In the interim, our Board of Directors has appointed our Chief Financial Officer to serve as Interim President and CEO until a qualified replacement is found. We have retained a recruiting firm and are currently conducting a nationwide search for a new CEO. The departure of our CEO and President could have a disruptive effect on our ability to attract and retain qualified team members and execute our strategic plan. Though we intend to hire a qualified candidate for CEO in the near term, no assurance can be given that we will be able to attract and retain a suitable CEO. An extended period of time without a permanent CEO could materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Furthermore, in recruiting a new CEO we will incur recruiting, relocation, training and possibly experience operational inefficiencies. In the event we are unable to effect a smooth transition from our Interim President and CEO to a new CEO, or if a new CEO should unexpectedly prove to be unsuitable for our Company, the resulting disruption could negatively impact our operations and impede our ability to execute our strategic plan. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 