Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company’s actual results and could cause the Company’s actual consolidated results for the Company’s current year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Uncertain Outlook The Company no longer has any revenue generating business. The Board of Directors has considered various alternative courses of action for the Company, including possibly acquiring or combining with one or more operating businesses. The Board of Directors has reviewed and analyzed a number of proposed transactions. On March 22, 2013, the Company announced in a current report of Form 8-K that it, together with Richard Beckman, Joel Katz and OA3 had entered into the Operating Agreement of Three Lions. Pursuant to the 4 Table of Contents Operating Agreement, the Company made an initial capital contribution of $3,150,000 with respect to membership units representing 60% of the voting power of Three Lions. The membership units received by the Company represent a 60% interest in the economic returns of Three Lions, including certain preferences with respect to common holders on operating returns and on a liquidation or sale of Three Lions. The Company has the ability to, but is not required to, make certain additional capital contributions. If the Company does not make additional contributions, OA3 is obligated to make such contributions in the amounts that would otherwise be made by the Company. If OA3 makes such contributions, OA3 will receive a proportionate interest in Three Lions, subject to certain exceptions. The Company cannot predict whether such course of action will be successful. Dependence on Key Personnel We are dependent on several key personnel, including our directors. In light of our uncertain outlook, there is no assurance that our key personnel can be retained. The loss of the services of our key personnel would harm the Company. In addition, the Company has a limited number of personnel. As such, this presents a challenge in maintaining compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If Section 404 compliance is not properly maintained, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting may be adversely affected. Investments The Company held an investment in a privately held technology company, which was sold in 2011. The Company continues to hold investments in other privately held companies. One of these investments was originally intended primarily to also provide the Company with an expanded technology presence. The other private company in which the Company has an investment is in a biotechnology company which is subject to all the risks inherent in biotechnology. In addition, these companies are subject to the valuation volatility associated with the investment community and capital markets. The carrying value of the Company’s investments in these companies is subject to the aforementioned risks. Periodically, the Company performs a review of the carrying value of its investments in these companies, and considers such factors as current results, trends and future prospects of the investee, general market conditions, and other economic factors. Forward Looking Information From time to time, the Company may provide forward looking information such as forecasts of expected future performance or statements about the Company’s plans and objectives. This information may be contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, or oral statements by the officers of the Company. The Company desires to take advantage of the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and these risk factors are intended to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 