Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company’s actual results and could cause the Company’s actual consolidated results for the Company’s current year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Uncertain Outlook The Company no longer has any operating business. As a result of this fact, together with the stockholders’ deficit, the Company’s significant loss from operations and lack of operating revenue, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Board of Directors continues to consider various alternative courses of action for the Company, including possibly acquiring or combining with one or more operating businesses. The Board of Directors has reviewed and analyzed a number of proposed transactions and will continue to do so until it can determine a course of action going forward to best benefit all shareholders, including the holder of the Company’s outstanding preferred stock described below. The Company cannot predict when the directors will have developed a proposed course of action or whether any such course of action will be successful. No assurances can be made that the holders of our capital stock will receive any distributions if the Company is wound up and liquidated or sold. The outstanding preferred stock has a liquidation preference over the common stock of $33.9 million, which includes accrued dividends. Also, upon a change of control of the Company, the holder of the outstanding preferred stock can cause the Company to redeem the preferred stock for 101% of the liquidation preference. As previously reported on Form 8-K dated October 5, 2007, in September 2007 the Board appointed a Special Committee of independent directors to review the possible recapitalization of the Company which was approved by the stockholders as a non-binding stockholder proposal at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders. In the proposed recapitalization, the outstanding preferred stock would be converted into shares of common stock equal to 70% of the shares outstanding following the recapitalization. The members of the Special Committee are Joseph Bartlett and Allan Brown. 6 Table of Contents Dependence on Key Personnel We are dependent on several key personnel, including our directors. In light of our uncertain outlook, there is no assurance that our key personnel can be retained. The loss of the services of our key personnel would harm the Company. In addition, the Company has a limited number personnel. As such, this presents a challenge in maintaining compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If Section 404 compliance is not properly maintained, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting may be adversely affected. Investments The Company has made strategic and venture investments in a portfolio of privately held companies. These investments were in technology and internet related companies that were at varying stages of development, and were intended to provide the Company with an expanded technology and internet presence, to enhance the Company’s position at the leading edge of e-business and to provide venture investment returns. These companies in which the Company has invested are subject to all the risks inherent in technology and the internet. In addition, these companies are subject to the valuation volatility associated with the investment community and capital markets. The carrying value of the Company’s investments in these companies is subject to the aforementioned risks. Periodically, the Company performs a review of the carrying value of all its investments in these companies, and considers such factors as current results, trends and future prospects, capital market conditions and other economic factors. The carrying value of the Company’s investment portfolio totaled $3.0 million as of December 31, 2007. Forward Looking Information From time to time, the Company may provide forward looking information such as forecasts of expected future performance or statements about the Company’s plans and objectives. This information may be contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, or oral statements by the officers of the Company. The Company desires to take advantage of the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and these risk factors are intended to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 