Risk Factors This document, and the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other materials released to the public contain “forward-looking statements,” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements may discuss the Company’s prospects, expected revenue, expenses and profits, strategies for its operations and other subjects, including conditions in the oilfield service and oil and natural gas industries and in the United States and international economy in general. Our forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that may not prove to be accurate. All of the Company’s forward-looking information is, therefore, subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expected. Although it is not possible to identify all factors, these risks and uncertainties include the risk factors discussed below. Business Risks. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if its business assumptions do not prove to be accurate or if adverse changes occur in the Company’s business environment, including the following areas: • potential declines or increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices that would adversely affect our customers and the energy industry, • declines in drilling activity, • reduction in prices or demand for our products and services, • general global economic and business conditions, 13 Table of Contents • the ability of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels for oil, • the Company’s ability to successfully integrate acquisitions, • our ability to generate technological advances and compete on the basis of advanced technology, • delays in oil and natural gas activity permitting, • the potential for unexpected litigation or proceedings, • competition and consolidation in our businesses and • potentially higher prices for products used by the Company in its operations. Risks of Economic Downturn. In the event of an economic downturn in the United States or globally, there may be decreased demand and lower prices for oil and natural gas and therefore for our products and services. The Company’s customers are generally involved in the energy industry, and if these customers experience a business decline, we may be subject to increased exposure to credit risk. If an economic downturn occurs, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks from Operating Hazards. The Company’s operations are subject to hazards present in the oil and natural gas industry, such as fire, explosion, blowouts and oil spills. These incidents as well as accidents or problems in normal operations can cause personal injury or death and damage to property or the environment. The customer’s operations can also be interrupted. From time to time, customers seek to recover from the Company for damage to their equipment or property that occurred while the Company was performing work. Damage to the customer’s property could be extensive if a major problem occurred. For example, operating hazards could arise: • in the pressure pumping, completion fluids, completion tools and casing and tubular services, during work performed on oil and natural gas wells, • in the production chemical business, as a result of use of the Company’s products in oil and natural gas wells and refineries, and • in the process and pipeline business, as a result of work performed by the Company at petrochemical plants as well as on pipelines. Risks from Unexpected Litigation. The Company has insurance coverage against operating hazards, which it believes is customary in the industry. This insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. The Company’s insurance premiums can be increased or decreased based on the claims made by the Company under its insurance policies. The insurance does not cover damages from breach of contract by the Company or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. Whenever possible, the Company obtains agreements from customers that limit the Company’s liability. Insurance and customer agreements do not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. Risks from Ongoing Investigations. In recent government actions, civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions have been imposed against several public corporations and individuals arising from allegations of improper payments and deficiencies in books and records and internal controls. The U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and other authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions they may seek to impose in these circumstances, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties and modifications to business practices and compliance programs. We are in discussions with the Department of Justice and the SEC regarding our internal investigations and cannot currently predict the outcome of our investigations, when any of these matters will be resolved, or what, if any, actions may be taken by the Department of Justice, the SEC or other authorities or the effect the actions may have on our consolidated financial statements. 14 Table of Contents Risks from International Operations. The Company’s international operations are subject to special risks that can materially affect the Company’s sales and profits. These risks include: • limits on access to international markets, • unsettled political conditions, war, civil unrest, and hostilities in some petroleum-producing and consuming countries and regions where we operate or seek to operate, • declines in, or suspension of, activity by our customers in our areas of operations due to adverse local or regional economic, political and other conditions that affect drilling operations, • fluctuations and changes in currency exchange rates, • the impact of inflation, • governmental action such as expropriation of assets, and changes in general legislative and regulatory environments, exchange controls, global trade policies such as trade restrictions and embargoes imposed and international business, political and economic conditions and • the risk that events or actions taken by the Company or others as a result of its currently ongoing investigations (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Investigations Regarding Misappropriation and Possible Illegal Payments.”) adversely affect the Company’s operations in the affected countries. Weather. The Company’s performance is significantly impacted by the demand for natural gas in North America. Warmer than normal winters in North America, among other factors, may adversely impact demand for natural gas and, therefore, demand for the Company’s services. Conversely, colder than normal winters may positively impact demand for natural gas and the Company’s services. In addition, our U.S. operations could be materially affected by severe weather in the Gulf of Mexico. Severe weather, such as hurricanes, may cause: • evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services, • damage to offshore drilling rigs resulting in suspension of operations, and • loss of or damage to our equipment, inventory, and facilities. Credit. If the Company’s credit rating is downgraded below investment grade, this could increase our costs of obtaining, or make it more difficult to obtain or issue, new debt financing. If our credit rating is downgraded, we could be required to, among other things, pay additional interest under our credit agreements, or provide additional guarantees, collateral, letters of credit or cash for credit support obligations. Other Risks. Other risk factors that could cause actual results to be different from the results we expect include changes in environmental laws and other governmental regulations. Many of these risks are beyond the control of the Company. In addition, future trends for pricing, margins, revenue and profitability remain difficult to predict in the industries we serve and under current economic and political conditions. Except as required by applicable law, we do not assume any responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements. Available Information Information regarding the Company, including corporate governance policies, ethics policies and charters for the committees of the board of directors can be found on the Company’s internet website at http://www.bjservices.com. In addition, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to 15 Table of Contents Section 13 (a) or 15 (d) of the Exchange Act are made available free of charge on the Company’s internet website on the same day that we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Information filed with the SEC may be read or copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Executive Officers of the Registrant The current executive officers of the Company and their positions and ages are as follows: Name Age Position with the Company OfficeHeldSince J. W. Stewart 61 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 1990 Mark Airola 47 Assistant General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer 2003 Alasdair Buchanan 45 Vice President—Technology and Logistics 2005 Susan Douget 45 Director of Human Resources 2003 David Dunlap 44 Vice President and President—International Division 1995 Brian McCole 46 Controller 2002 Margaret B. Shannon 56 Vice President—General Counsel 1994 Jeffrey E. Smith 43 Treasurer 2002 T. M. Whichard 47 Vice President—Finance and Chief Financial Officer 2002 Kenneth A. Williams 55 Vice President and President—U.S./Mexico Division 1991 Mr. Stewart joined Hughes Tool Company in 1969 as Project Engineer. He served as Vice President—Legal and Secretary of Hughes Tool Company and as Vice President—Operations for a predecessor of the Company prior to being named President of the Company in 1986. In 1990, he was also named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Airola joined the Company as Assistant General Counsel in 1995 from Cooper Industries, Inc., a diversified manufacturing company, where he served as Senior Litigation Counsel. He was named Chief Compliance Officer in 2003. Mr. Buchanan joined the Company in 1982 as a Trainee Engineer and was named Vice President—Technology and Logistics in 2005. He has previously served in numerous international Engineering and Operations positions, including most recently as Region Manager of the Europe Africa Region, a position he had held since 1999. Ms. Douget joined the Company in 1979 and was promoted to Director, Human Resources in 2003. Prior to being promoted Director, she held various positions within the Human Resources function. Mr. Dunlap joined the Company in 1984 as a District Engineer and was named Vice President—International Division in 1995. He has previously served as Vice President—Sales for the Coastal Division of North America and U.S. Sales and Marketing Manager. Mr. McCole originally joined the Company as Director of Internal Audit in 1991. He also served as Controller of the Asia Pacific Region and Controller of BJ Chemical Services (formerly BJ Unichem). He left the Company in 1998 and returned in 2001 to serve as Director of Internal Audit until becoming Controller in 2002. Ms. Shannon joined the Company in 1994 as Vice President—General Counsel from the law firm of Andrews Kurth LLP, where she had been a partner since 1984. 16 Table of Contents Mr. Smith joined the Company in 1990 as Financial Reporting Manager. He also served as Director, Financial Planning. In 1997 he was promoted to Director, Business Development, a position he held until being named Treasurer in 2002. Prior to joining BJ Services, he held various positions with Baker Hughes Incorporated. Mr. Whichard joined the Company as Tax and Treasury Manager in 1989 from Weatherford International and was named Treasurer in 1992 and Vice President in 1998. Prior to being named Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in 2002, he served in various positions including Treasurer, Tax Director and Assistant Treasurer. Mr. Williams joined the Company in 1973 and has since held various positions in the U.S. operations. Prior to being named Vice President—U.S. Division in 1991, he served as Region Manager—Western U.S. and Canada. 