ITEM 1A. Risk Factors This document, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other materials released to the public contain “forward-looking statements,” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements may discuss our prospects, expected revenue, expenses and profits, strategies for our operations and other subjects, including conditions in the oilfield service and oil and natural gas industries and in the United States and international economy in general. Our forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that may not prove to be accurate. All of our forward-looking information is, therefore, subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expected. Although it is not possible to identify all factors, these risks and uncertainties include the risk factors discussed below. Business Risks Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our business assumptions do not prove to be accurate or if adverse changes occur in our business environment, including the following areas: • fluctuating prices of crude oil and natural gas, • conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, including drilling activity, • reduction in prices or demand for our products and services and level of acceptance of price book increases in our markets, • general global economic and business conditions, • international political instability, security conditions, hostilities, and declines in customer activity due to adverse local and regional conditions, • our ability to expand our products and services (including those we acquire) into new geographic markets, • our ability to generate technological advances and compete on the basis of advanced technology, • risks from operating hazards such as fire, explosion, blowouts and oil spills, • litigation for which insurance and customer agreements do not provide protection, • adverse consequences that may be found in or result from internal investigations, including potential financial and business consequences and governmental actions, proceedings, charges or penalties, 16 Table of Contents • changes in currency exchange rates, • severe weather conditions, including hurricanes, that affect conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, • the business opportunities that may be presented to and pursued by us, • competition and consolidation in our business, • changes in law or regulations and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and • other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks of Economic Downturn and Lower Oil and Natural Gas Prices In the event of an economic downturn in the United States or globally, there may be decreased demand and lower prices for oil and natural gas and therefore lower demand for our products and services. Our customers are generally involved in the energy industry, and if these customers experience a business decline, we may be subject to increased exposure to credit risk. If an economic downturn occurs, our results of operations may be adversely affected. A decline in oil and natural gas prices for any reason could reduce demand for our services. Risks from Operating Hazards Our operations are subject to hazards present in the oil and natural gas industry, such as fire, explosion, blowouts and oil spills. These incidents as well as accidents or problems in normal operations can cause personal injury or death and damage to property or the environment. The customer’s operations can also be interrupted. From time to time, customers seek to recover from us for damage to their equipment or property that occurred while we were performing work. Damage to the customer’s property could be extensive if a major problem occurred. For example, operating hazards could arise: • in the pressure pumping, completion fluids, completion tools and casing and tubular services, during work performed on oil and natural gas wells, • in the production chemical business, as a result of use of our products in oil and natural gas wells and refineries, and • in the process and pipeline business, as a result of work performed by us at petrochemical plants as well as on pipelines. Risks from Unexpected Litigation We have insurance coverage against some operating hazards. This insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. Our insurance premiums can be increased or decreased based on the claims made by us under our insurance policies. The insurance does not cover damages from breach of contract by us or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. Whenever possible, we obtain agreements from customers that limit our liability. Insurance and customer agreements do not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. Risks from Ongoing Investigations In recent government actions, civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions have been imposed against several public corporations and individuals arising from allegations of improper payments and deficiencies in books and records and internal controls. The U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and other authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions they may seek to impose in these circumstances, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties and modifications to business practices and compliance programs. We are in discussions with the Department of 17 Table of Contents Justice and the SEC regarding our internal investigations and cannot currently predict the outcome of our investigations, when any of these matters will be resolved, or what, if any, actions may be taken by the Department of Justice, the SEC or other authorities or the effect the actions may have on our business or consolidated financial statements. Risks from International Operations Our international operations are subject to special risks that can materially affect our sales and profits. These risks include: • limits on access to international markets, • unsettled political conditions, war, civil unrest, and hostilities in some petroleum-producing and consuming countries and regions where we operate or seek to operate, • declines in, or suspension of, activity by our customers in our areas of operations due to adverse local or regional economic, political and other conditions that reduce drilling operations, • fluctuations and changes in currency exchange rates, • the impact of inflation, • the ultimate tax liability may be significantly different due to different interpretations of local tax laws and tax treaties, estimates and assumptions made regarding the scope of and timing of income earned and changes in tax laws, • governmental action such as expropriation of assets, and changes in general legislative and regulatory environments, currency controls, global trade policies such as trade restrictions and embargoes imposed and international business, political and economic conditions, • terrorist attacks and threats of attacks have increased the political and economic instability in some of the countries in which we operate, and • the risk that events or actions taken by us or others as a result of our currently ongoing investigations (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Investigations Regarding Misappropriation and Possible Illegal Payments.”) adversely affect our operations in the affected countries. Weather Our performance is significantly impacted by the demand for natural gas in North America. Warmer than normal winters in North America, among other factors, may adversely impact demand for natural gas and, therefore, demand for our services. In addition, our U.S. operations could be materially affected by severe weather in the Gulf of Mexico. Severe weather, such as hurricanes, may cause: • evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services, • damage to offshore drilling rigs resulting in suspension of operations, and • loss of or damage to our equipment, inventory, and facilities. Credit Rating If our credit rating is downgraded below investment grade, this could increase our costs of obtaining, or make it more difficult to obtain or issue, new debt financing. If our credit rating is downgraded, we could be required to, among other things, pay additional interest under our credit agreements, or provide additional guarantees, collateral, letters of credit or cash for credit support obligations. 18 Table of Contents Other Risks Other risk factors that could cause actual results to be different from the results we expect include changes in environmental laws and other governmental regulations. The market price for our common stock, as well as other companies in the oil and natural gas industry, has been historically volatile. Many of these risks are beyond our control. In addition, future trends for pricing, margins, revenue and profitability remain difficult to predict in the industries we serve and under current economic and political conditions. Except as required by applicable law, we do not assume any responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 