ITEM 1A. Risk Factors This document, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other materials released to the public contain “forward-looking statements,” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements may discuss our prospects, expected revenue, expenses and profits, strategies for our operations and other subjects, including conditions in the oilfield service and oil and natural gas industries and in the United States and international economy in general. Our forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that may not prove to be accurate. All of our forward-looking information is, therefore, subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expected. Although it is not possible to identify all factors, these risks and uncertainties include the risk factors discussed below. 15 Table of Contents Business Risks Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our business assumptions do not prove to be accurate or if adverse changes occur in our business environment, including the following areas: • general global economic and business conditions, • our ability to expand our products and services (including those we acquire) into new geographic markets, • our ability to grow businesses we have acquired such that our investment can be fully realized, • our ability to generate technological advances and compete on the basis of advanced technology, • our ability to attract and retain skilled, trained personnel to provide technical services and support for our business, • our ability to procure sufficient supplies of materials essential to our business, such as cement, proppants (including sand), certain chemicals, and specialty metals, • the business opportunities that may be presented to and pursued by us, • competition in our business, including the addition of new competitors and new capacity in North America, • consolidation by our customers, which could result in loss of a customer, and • changes in laws or regulations and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Risks from an Economic Downturn and Lower Oil and Natural Gas Prices Recent economic data indicate that the rate of economic growth in the United States and worldwide has declined significantly from the growth rates experienced in recent years. Prolonged periods of little or no economic growth will likely decrease demand for oil and natural gas, which could result in lower prices for crude oil and natural gas and therefore lower demand and potentially lower pricing for our products and services. If economic conditions deteriorate for prolonged periods, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Crude oil and natural gas prices have declined significantly from their historic highs in July 2008, and such price declines can be expected to reduce drilling activity and demand for our services from the levels experienced during fiscal 2008. In addition, most of our customers are involved in the energy industry, and if a significant number of them experience a prolonged business decline or disruption as a result of economic slowdown or lower crude oil and natural gas prices, we may incur increased exposure to credit risk and bad debts. Risks related to the Worldwide Oil and Natural Gas Industry Conditions in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to factors beyond our control. Demand for our products and services is dependent upon the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development activities around the world. The level of worldwide oil and natural gas development activities is primarily influenced by the price of crude oil and natural gas, as well as expectations about future crude oil and natural gas prices. Crude oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile in recent months, and have declined significantly from their historic highs in July 2008. Such price declines can be expected to reduce drilling activity and demand for our services from the levels experienced during fiscal 2008 which could lead to lower pricing for our products and services. Prolonged periods of historically lower drilling activity could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks related to Global Credit Crisis Recent events in the global credit markets have significantly impacted the availability of credit and financing costs for many of our customers. Many of our customers finance their drilling and production programs through third-party lenders. The reduced availability and increased costs of borrowing could cause our customers to reduce their spending on drilling programs, thereby reducing demand and potentially resulting in lower pricing for our products and services. Also, the current credit and economic environment could significantly impact the financial condition of some customers over a period of time, leading to business disruptions and restricting their ability to pay us for services performed, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents In addition, an increasing number of financial institutions and insurance companies have reported significant deterioration in their financial condition. Our forward-looking statements assume that our lenders, insurers and other financial institutions will be able to fulfill their obligations under our various credit agreements, insurance policies and contracts. If any of our significant financial institutions were unable to perform under such agreements, and if we were unable to find suitable replacements at a reasonable cost, our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Risks from Operating Hazards Our operations are subject to hazards present in the oil and natural gas industry, such as fire, explosion, blowouts, oil spills and leaks or spills of hazardous materials. These incidents as well as accidents or problems in normal operations can cause personal injury or death and damage to property or the environment. The customer’s operations can also be interrupted. From time to time, customers seek to recover from us for damage to their equipment or property that occurred while we were performing work. Damage to the customer’s property could be extensive if a major problem occurred. For example, operating hazards could arise: • in the pressure pumping, completion fluids, completion tools and casing and tubular services businesses, during work performed on oil and natural gas wells, • in the chemical services business, as a result of use of our products in oil and natural gas wells and refineries, and • in the process and pipeline business, as a result of work performed by us at petrochemical plants and on pipelines. Risks from Litigation We have insurance coverage against some operating hazards. This insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. Our insurance premiums can be increased or decreased based on market conditions and our claims history under our insurance policies. The insurance does not cover damages from breach of contract by us or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. Whenever possible, we obtain agreements from customers that limit our liability. Insurance and customer agreements do not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by claims not covered by insurance. Risks from Ongoing Investigations In recent government actions, civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions have been imposed against several public corporations and individuals arising from allegations of improper payments and deficiencies in books and records and internal controls. The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the SEC and other authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions they may seek to impose in these circumstances, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties and modifications to business practices and compliance programs. We have had discussions with the DOJ and the SEC regarding our internal investigations and cannot currently predict the outcome of our investigations, when any of these matters will be resolved, or what, if any, actions may be taken by the DOJ, the SEC or other authorities or the effect the actions may have on our business or consolidated financial statements. For further information regarding our investigations, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Risks from International Operations Our international operations are subject to special risks that can materially affect our sales and profits. These risks include: • limits on access to international markets, • unsettled political conditions, war, civil unrest and hostilities in some petroleum-producing and consuming countries and regions where we operate or seek to operate, 17 Table of Contents • declines in, or suspension of, activity by our customers in our areas of operations due to adverse local or regional economic, political and other conditions that reduce drilling operations, • fluctuations and changes in currency exchange rates, • the impact of inflation, • the risk that the ultimate tax liability may be significantly different due to different interpretations of local tax laws and tax treaties, estimates and assumptions made regarding the scope of and timing of income earned and changes in tax laws, • governmental action such as expropriation of assets, and changes in general legislative and regulatory environments, currency controls, global trade policies such as trade restrictions and embargoes imposed and international business, political and economic conditions, • terrorist attacks and threats of attacks, which have increased the political and economic instability in some of the countries in which we operate, and • the risk that events or actions taken by us or others as a result of our currently ongoing investigations (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Investigations Regarding Misappropriation and Possible Illegal Payments”) adversely affect our operations and our competitive position in the affected countries. Weather Our performance is significantly impacted by the demand for natural gas in North America. Warmer than normal winters in North America, among other factors, may adversely impact demand for natural gas and, therefore, demand for our services. In addition, our U.S. operations could be materially affected by severe weather in the Gulf of Mexico. Severe weather, such as hurricanes, may cause: • evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services, • damage to offshore drilling rigs resulting in suspension of operations, and • loss of or damage to our equipment, inventory, and facilities. Credit Rating If our credit rating is downgraded below investment grade, this could increase our costs of obtaining, or make it more difficult to obtain or issue, new debt financing. If our credit rating is downgraded, we could be required to, among other things, pay additional interest under our credit agreements, or provide additional guarantees, collateral, letters of credit or cash for credit support obligations. Greenhouse Gases A variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements have been introduced in the domestic and international regions in which we operate that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Among these developments are the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the “Kyoto Protocol” (an internationally applied protocol, which has been ratified in Canada, one of our reporting segments), the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative or “RGGI” in the Northeastern United States, and the Western Regional Climate Action Initiative in the Western United States. Also, in 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA that greenhouse gases are an “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act and thus subject to future regulation. These developments may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services, which may in turn adversely affect our future results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Other Risks Other risk factors could cause actual results to be different from the results we expect. The market price for our common stock, as well as other companies in the oil and natural gas industry, has been historically volatile, which could restrict our access to capital markets in the future. Other risks and uncertainties may be detailed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Many of these risks are beyond our control. In addition, future trends for pricing, margins, revenue and profitability remain difficult to predict in the industries we serve and under current economic and political conditions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and except as required by applicable law, we do not assume any responsibility to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 