ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future, which could cause us to miss our guidance or analyst expectations and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate. As a result, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include: • customer demand, which is influenced, in part, by conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industry, demand for products that use semiconductors and market acceptance of our products and those of our customers; • our geographic sales mix, product sales mix and average selling prices; • timing, cancellation or delay of customer orders; • seasonality of customer orders based on their purchasing cycles; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • competition, such as competitive pressures on the price, performance and reliability of our products, the introduction or announcement of new products by us or our competitors and our competitors’ intellectual property rights, which could prevent us from introducing products that compete effectively with their products; • our production capacity and availability and cost of materials, components and subassemblies; • our ability to deliver reliable products in a timely manner, including as a result of fluctuations in yield on some of our product lines; and • our product development costs, including research and development and sales and marketing expenses associated with new products or product enhancements and the costs of transitioning to new or enhanced products. In particular, many of our more technically advanced probing stations can have selling prices from $0.2 million to over $1.0 million. If there are unforeseen delays in shipment or customer acceptance of these more expensive and advanced systems, or of any other significant orders near the end of a quarter, the recognition of revenue on these orders could be delayed into the following period, significantly affecting both revenue and earnings for the quarter. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. 11 Table of Contents The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry affects our financial results, and, as a result, we may experience reduced sales or operating losses in a semiconductor industry downturn. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical with recurring periods of wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, periods of oversupply, maturing product and technology cycles, excess inventories, geo-political changes and declines in general economic conditions. Our customers’ purchasing behavior in response to these cycles has been generally unpredictable. In the past, our operating results have been adversely affected by the cyclical downturns in the semiconductor industry. Our business is heavily dependent on the level of research and development spending of our customers, the volume of semiconductor production by semiconductor manufacturers, particularly by wireless chip manufacturers, the development of new semiconductors and semiconductor designs and the overall financial strength of our customers, which, in turn, depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and the products incorporating them. Semiconductor manufacturers in particular are known to sharply curtail their capital expenditures when confronted with an industry downturn. Since we sell our systems to virtually all chip segments, our revenue may be affected by any significant segment weakness. We may not achieve or maintain our current or prior levels of revenue growth. Any factor adversely affecting the semiconductor industry in general, or the particular segments, regions or major customers of the industry that our products target, will adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and could cause us to experience operating losses. Because we generally do not have a sufficient backlog of unfilled orders to meet our quarterly revenue targets, revenue in any quarter is substantially dependent upon customer orders received and fulfilled in that quarter. Our revenue is difficult to forecast because we generally do not have a sufficient backlog of unfilled orders for our engineering probe stations, analytical probes and production probe cards to meet our quarterly revenue targets at the beginning of a quarter. Historically, a significant portion of our revenue in any quarter depends upon customer orders that we receive and fulfill in that quarter, which is typically weighted in the last month of the quarter. In addition, because our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenue and, to a large extent, are fixed in the short term, we might be unable to adjust spending in time to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenue in relation to our expectations and the expectations of analysts or investors could hurt our operating results and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. If we do not keep pace with technological developments in the semiconductor industry, especially the trend toward faster, smaller and lower-cost chips, our revenue and operating results could suffer as potential customers decide to adopt our competitors’ products. We must continue to invest in research and development and certain manufacturing capabilities to improve our competitive position and to meet the testing needs of our customers. Our future growth depends, in significant part, on our ability to work effectively with and anticipate the testing needs of our customers and on our ability to develop and support new products and product enhancements to meet these needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our customers’ testing needs are becoming more challenging as the semiconductor industry continues to experience rapid technological change driven by the demand for complex chips that have smaller element sizes and at the same time are increasing in speed and functionality and becoming less expensive to produce. Our customers expect that they will be able to integrate our wafer probing products into their design and production processes as soon as they are deployed. To meet these expectations and remain competitive, we must continually design, develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and product enhancements with improved features. Successful product development and introduction on a timely basis require that we: • design innovative and performance-enhancing features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; 12 Table of Contents • identify emerging technological trends in our target markets, including new engineering and production test strategies; • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and • adjust to changing market conditions quickly and cost-effectively. If we are unable to timely predict industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products on a timely basis, we might lose customers or market share, and our operating results could suffer. We cannot assure you that we will successfully develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, that any product enhancement or new product developed by us will gain market acceptance or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or uncompetitive. Intense competition in the semiconductor wafer probing business may reduce demand for our products and reduce our sales. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to continue in the future. Our existing competitors or other potential competitors may have developed or may be developing technology of which we are unaware that may render our products uncompetitive. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products or to deliver competitive products at lower prices. We cannot assure you that we will maintain our current competitive position or that our production probe cards will achieve widespread acceptance in the market. Finally, increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced sales, reduced margins or failure to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance for our products, any of which could prevent us from growing our business and adversely affect our operating results. During 2012 or later, some of these competitors may use a strategy of intense discounting to help maintain, or even increase, their revenue and customer base. Consolidation of our customer base could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Customers could be purchased by other companies or simply dissolve. This may mean that fewer customers could have greater leverage to obtain price concessions thereby impacting margins negatively. In addition, leading-edge chip technology development in the semiconductor industry has become so expensive that our customers are often teaming up to perform the development work, effectively shrinking our customer base or slowing their purchases of engineering tools. Some of our customers may experience adverse changes in their financial condition, resulting in decreased sales and bad debts. Global economic changes, or changes in the economic condition of a given region or country could lead to negative changes in the financial condition of our customers, including insolvency and bankruptcy. These changes could have a negative impact on our sales, make it more difficult to collect on receivables and result in bad debts. We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the termination of any of these relationships would adversely affect our business. Our top four customers accounted for a total of 20% and 16%, respectively, of our revenue in 2011 and 2010. Our customer base is less diversified in probes than in probe stations. Typically, our customers are not obligated by long-term contracts to purchase our products and may discontinue purchasing our products at any time. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated and a small number of semiconductor manufacturers generally account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor test equipment, including our products. Consequently, our business and operating results would be materially, adversely affected by the loss of any of our significant customers. 13 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to increase our revenue will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, particularly customers of our production probe cards. Obtaining orders from new customers is difficult because semiconductor manufacturers typically select one vendor’s products for testing a particular new generation of chips. Once a manufacturer has selected a vendor, that manufacturer is more likely to continue to purchase products from that vendor for that generation of chips, as well as subsequent generations of chips. We therefore place great emphasis on relationships with our current customers because these customers are difficult to replace. In addition, we focus on leveraging our relationships with current customers to sell into additional engineering labs and production lines in the same company and similar groups in other companies. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our existing significant customers or to obtain new customers that adopt and implement our products and technology, we will not be able to meet our revenue and growth targets, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. We obtain some of the materials, components and subassemblies used in our products from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. If these suppliers declare bankruptcy or are unable to provide us with these materials, components or subassemblies in adequate quantities and on a timely basis, we may be unable to manufacture our products or meet our customers’ needs. We obtain some of the materials, components and subassemblies used in our products from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. From time to time, we may experience difficulties in obtaining these materials, components and subassemblies from some suppliers. In the future, one or more of our suppliers may declare bankruptcy or go out of business due to unusually weak business conditions or other factors or may otherwise be unable to adequately meet our needs, which could force us to source our products from different suppliers. The manufacture of some of the materials, components and subassemblies that we use in our products, such as thermal chucks and microscopes, is a complex process, and in the event that we cannot obtain an adequate supply of these components, it would be difficult and time-consuming to identify and qualify new suppliers. If some of the materials used in our probe manufacturing process become unavailable, it would be costly and time consuming to identify and qualify new suppliers. In addition, many of these suppliers are small companies that may be more susceptible to downturns in general economic conditions, thereby increasing the risks of product and shipment delays, increased costs or loss of suppliers. The delay in shipments from, or complete loss of, any one of these suppliers could prevent us from producing and shipping our products, resulting in delayed or lost orders for our products and damage to our customer relationships, which would harm our results of operations. In addition, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these materials, components or subassemblies could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Any disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities could harm our business. We manufacture most of our products in our facilities located in Beaverton, Oregon and Dresden, Germany. Our manufacturing processes are complex and require sophisticated and costly equipment and specially designed facilities. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, relocation or destruction of or damage to the facilities as a result of an earthquake, fire or any other reason, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on suppliers and contract manufacturers for the products we sell. Reliance on suppliers and contract manufacturers raises several risks, including the possibility of defective parts, lack of availability and the possibility of increases in component costs. Manufacturing efficiencies and our profitability can be adversely affected by each of these risks. For instance, during October 2011, heavy rain in Thailand resulted in flooding at the manufacturing facility of a key supplier for one of our probing stations. If we had not been able to obtain the necessary materials and resources to build those stations at our facility in Beaverton, Oregon, our revenues and results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2011 could have been adversely impacted. 14 Table of Contents We have long-lived assets, including fixed assets and intangible assets, recorded on our balance sheet. In the future, the fair value of certain long-lived assets may be reduced below their carrying value, which may require us to record non-cash asset impairment charges in future periods, which would adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had fixed assets, goodwill and intangible assets of $13.2 million recorded on our balance sheets. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives annually and we test other long-lived assets when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. If we record an impairment charge as a result of these analyses, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our growth could strain our personnel and infrastructure resources, and, if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational, financial and technical resources and on our internal control, management information and reporting systems. Our success will depend, in part, upon the ability of our senior management to manage this growth effectively. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to: • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures; • manage the growth of different product lines with different cost structures; and • recruit, train, manage and motivate our employees to support our expanded operations. We may make acquisitions, which could be costly, difficult to integrate with our operations, divert management resources and dilute shareholder value. As part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, products or technologies that complement our current product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities, expand our operations into new markets or offer other growth opportunities. We may acquire companies, products or technologies in the future, which could pose risks to our operating results due to: • the failure of the transaction to advance our business strategy or to generate a satisfactory return on investment; • difficulties assimilating the acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products into our company; • diversion of management’s attention from our existing business; • adverse effects on relationships with our existing suppliers, customers or partners; and • the impairment of intangible assets or other assets acquired in the acquisition. A re-organization could also result in significant disruption of our business and our relationships with our employees, suppliers and customers could be adversely affected. Subsequent to the acquisition of SUSS Test in January 2010, we began to restructure and integrate the combined businesses, which resulted in severance charges and inventory write-offs. In the second quarter of 2010, we restructured our Sockets business in Minnesota, which resulted in severance charges, inventory write-offs and shorter useful lives of certain equipment. In the third quarter of 2011, we sold our Sockets business, which resulted in a loss on disposal activities of $1.5 million. In the fourth quarter of 2010, in connection with our ongoing integration of the operations of SUSS Test, we announced plans to restructure and consolidate our sales organization and manufacturing operations. Manufacturing operations for our Systems business were consolidated at our Dresden, Germany facility and manufacturing operations for our Probes business, as well as our corporate headquarters, were consolidated at one of our Beaverton, Oregon facilities. Our sales offices in Vermont and Arizona were closed in the fourth quarter of 2010. 15 Table of Contents Total restructuring charges in 2011 were $3.4 million, primarily for lease abandonment, and were $2.7 million in 2010, primarily for severance and inventory write-offs. We may, in the future, undertake additional restructuring or reorganization activities in order to improve operating efficiencies and reduce operating costs. Such activities may require significant efforts, including the integration of product manufacturing, research and development, sales and marketing efforts and general and administration activities, and any additional charges and write-offs, which could adversely affect our operating results. There can be no assurance that such activities would be successful or reduce operating costs. We face economic, political and other risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could materially harm our operating results. Over the past three years, we have derived more than 70% of our annual revenue from sales outside the United States, primarily in Taiwan, Japan and other Asian countries and, to a lesser extent, Europe. Geographic revenues are as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 United States $ 27,251 $ 22,750 $ 15,316 Asia Pacific 49,906 42,351 25,293 Europe 24,634 24,784 8,968 Other 2,819 2,712 1,717 $ 104,610 $ 92,597 $ 51,294 We expect international sales to continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. In the past, the economic climate in some foreign markets, particularly in Asia, has, at times, quickly and dramatically changed, resulting in a negative effect on our operating results. Currently, we maintain six international offices in Europe and Asia, and we may establish new international offices in the future. Risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas; • the possible lack of financial and political stability in foreign countries, preventing overseas sales growth; • changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency; • changes in domestic or foreign law or policy resulting in the need to comply with potentially burdensome government controls, regulations, tariffs, embargoes or export and import license requirements; • longer payment cycles; • differing and more burdensome labor regulations and practices in Europe; • social and political unrest in the Middle East; • the effects of sudden outbreaks of epidemics in Asia and other parts of the world; and • the effects of terrorist attacks in the U.S. and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide. The different cultures in countries where we do business often challenge us to meet or manage local expectations about how employees are hired, managed, compensated, or terminated. For example, most employees in Japan expect an organization wherein a manager’s direct reports are younger than the manager. In Europe, governments force the severance costs of a reduction in force action to be generally much higher than in the U.S. 16 Table of Contents Finally, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between the dollar and the currencies of countries in which we do business. While some of our sales are denominated in foreign currencies, most of our international sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, most of our international operating expenses have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies could increase the relative costs of our overseas operations, which could reduce our operating margins. Significant unfavorable fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could cause us to lower our prices and thus reduce our profitability. In addition, fluctuations in exchange rates could cause customers to delay or cancel orders because of the increased cost of our products relative to those of our competitors who manufacture in other countries. We may be exposed to uninsured risks if the type and amount of coverage we carry are not adequate, or if the insurance company is unable to honor claims. We carry insurance in various types and amounts to insure against a range of business related risks. If the types of insurance or the insurance limits are not adequate to protect us against all claims, or the insurance company is not able to honor our claims, our results of operations, financial position and cash flow could be negatively affected. Failure to retain key managerial, technical, sales and marketing personnel, independent manufacturers’ representatives and distributors or to attract new key personnel could harm our business. Our success depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key management, technical, and sales and marketing personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The loss of key personnel could limit our ability to develop new products and adapt existing products to our customers’ evolving requirements and may result in lost sales and a diversion of management resources. In addition, much of our competitive advantage and intellectual property is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key personnel. To support our future growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical and sales and marketing employees. Competition for such personnel in our industry can be intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Over half of our revenues are typically generated through independent manufacturers’ representatives and distributors, whose activities are not within our direct control. In addition, in some locations, our manufacturers’ representatives and distributors provide field service to our customers. A reduction in the sales efforts or financial viability of these manufacturers’ representatives or distributors, or a termination of our relationship with these representatives or distributors, would have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial results and ability to support our customers. Our customers’ evaluation processes can lead to lengthy sales cycles, during which we may incur significant costs that may not result in sales. Our customers typically expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products prior to placing an order, particularly for orders of probe stations and production probe cards. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from three to 12 months and sometimes longer. During the period in which our customers are evaluating our products, we incur substantial sales, marketing, research and development expenses and expend significant management efforts. After completing this evaluation process, a potential customer may elect not to purchase our products. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to unplanned processing and other delays, particularly with respect to larger customers for which our products represent a very small percentage of their overall purchase activity. 17 Table of Contents Additional factors, some of which are partially or completely outside our control, that affect the length of time it takes us to complete a sale, include: • the efforts of our sales force; • the history of previous sales to the customer; • the complexity of the customer’s engineering or production processes; • the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer; and • the capital expenditure budgets of the customer. The lengthy and unpredictable nature of our sales cycle could result in fluctuations in our operating results, which could fall below the expectations of analysts and investors for any particular period of time, and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. If our products contain defects, our reputation would be damaged, and we could lose customers and revenue and incur warranty expenses. The complexity and ongoing development of our products, as well as the inclusion in our products of components purchased from third parties, could lead to design, manufacturing or performance problems. Our products may contain defects which could cause our sales to decline, our reputation to be significantly damaged and our customers to be reluctant to buy our products, any or all of which could result in a decline in revenue, an increase in product returns, higher field service costs, the loss of existing customers or the failure to attract new customers. Our warranty charges totaled $1.1 million, $0.6 million and $0.5 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Although we are not currently seeking reimbursement from any vendors related to our warranty expense, we have in the past, and may again in the future, seek reimbursement from certain vendors. To the extent that we experience additional failures of purchased components that increase our warranty expenses that are not reimbursed by the vendor, our results of operations will be adversely affected. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology and rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which would weaken our competitive position and could reduce our sales. Our success and competitive position depend in significant part on the technically innovative features of our products, and, if we fail to protect our proprietary rights, our competitors might gain access to our technology. Although we rely in part on patent, trade secret and trademark laws to protect the proprietary technology used in our products, our patents may be challenged by third parties and held invalid, and any of our pending patent applications may not be approved. Additionally, we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we may not be able to prevent the misappropriation and unauthorized use of our technologies. In addition, our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies, may not provide us with competitive advantages and may be circumvented by the designs of third parties. Certain of our patents will expire in the near future, and such expirations will reduce our ability to assert claims against competitors or others who use similar technology. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Others may independently develop or otherwise acquire similar or competing technologies or methods or design around our patents. Additionally, some of our proprietary technology cannot be effectively protected by patents. In these cases, we rely on trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our confidential and proprietary information, processes and technology. However, our confidential and proprietary information, processes and technology could be independently developed by, or otherwise become known to, third parties, which would weaken our competitive position and might reduce our sales. Over the past three years, we have derived more than 70% of our annual revenue from products sold to customers outside of North America. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and many companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in such countries. The manner in which we protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate in some foreign countries. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property in foreign countries would make it easier for competitors to copy or circumvent our product designs and sell competing products in those countries, which could adversely affect our revenue and cause us to lose customers. 18 Table of Contents Intellectual property infringement claims by or against us may result in litigation, the cost of which could be substantial and could prevent us from selling our products. The semiconductor industry is characterized by uncertain and conflicting intellectual property claims, frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights and vigorous protection and pursuit of these rights. Questions of infringement in the semiconductor industry involve highly technical and subjective analyses. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by third parties, and we may not prevail in any litigation. Any such litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, might be costly, could harm our reputation, could cause product shipment delays and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our normal business operations. An adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation might result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, require us to seek licenses from third parties, prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or require us to discontinue the use of certain technology in our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. License agreements, if required, might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our success depends on our continued investment in research and development, the level and effectiveness of which could reduce our profitability. We will continue to make investments in research and development to sustain and improve our competitive position and meet our customers’ needs. These investments currently include enhancing our probe stations, refining probe fabrication processes and developing higher performance probe cards and analytical probes. To maintain our competitive position, we may need to increase our research and development investment, which could reduce our profitability. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will achieve a return on these investments, nor can we assure you that these investments will improve our competitive position or meet our customers’ needs. We may fail to comply with environmental regulations, which could result in significant costs and harm our business. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials used in our thin-film fabrication facility and other manufacturing operations. The risk of a release of hazardous or toxic materials cannot be completely eliminated, and if such a release occurs, we could be held financially responsible for the cleanup or other consequences of the release. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in enforcement actions, substantial liabilities and suspension of production or cessation of operations in extreme situations. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or build new facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other substantial expenses which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. 19 Table of Contents In addition, many countries including those in the European Union (EU) and China have implemented directives that restrict the sale of new electrical and electronic equipment containing hazardous substance, or make producers of electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. If it is determined that we do not comply with certain environmental regulations, we may suffer a loss of revenue, be unable to sell in certain markets or countries and suffer competitive disadvantage, and be required to take reserves for costs associated with compliance with these regulations. Environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time, imposing even greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Product liability claims may be asserted against us, resulting in costly litigation for which we may not have sufficient liability insurance. Our customers may use our products in the testing of high-reliability semiconductors for critical applications such as telecommunications infrastructure, military, medical and aerospace equipment. Defects or other problems with the performance of our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers. In addition, some of our probe stations that use high-powered lasers or operate at high voltage or extreme temperatures may cause death or injury to persons utilizing such equipment due to undetected design or manufacturing defects or due to improper use or maintenance by our customers. Although our product invoices and sales contracts generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these provisions. Product liability litigation against us, even if it were unsuccessful, could be time consuming and costly to defend. Additionally, although we carry product liability insurance, in some circumstances it may not cover certain claims or be adequate to cover all claims. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws, including pending tax law changes, such as the benefit from export sales and the research and development credit. In particular, the recoverability of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the U.S. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay could be subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. Our officers and directors and their affiliates may control the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. As of December 31, 2011, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned greater than 35% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Consequently, these shareholders have substantial influence over the election of our directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as a merger or a sale of our company or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of voting power and control could have a significant effect in delaying, deferring or preventing an action that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders and be disadvantageous to our shareholders with interests different from those of our officers, directors and affiliates. These shareholders will also have significant control over our business, policies and affairs. Additionally, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling shareholders. 20 Table of Contents Change in control severance agreements with certain executive officers and the anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents and Oregon law may inhibit a takeover or change in our control that shareholders may consider beneficial. Change in control severance agreements with certain executive officers and provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Oregon law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, making a merger or acquisition of us less desirable to a potential acquirer or preventing a change in our management, even if the shareholders consider the merger or acquisition favorable or if doing so would benefit our shareholders. In addition, these agreements and provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions: • We have typically staggered our board of directors, which makes it more difficult for a group of shareholders to quickly change the composition of our board. • Our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us or change our control. • Members of our board of directors can only be removed for cause. • The board of directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining shareholder approval. • Shareholders are required to provide advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at a shareholder meeting. • Any action that is taken by written consent of shareholders must be unanimous. We are also subject to the provisions of the Oregon Control Share Act and the Oregon Business Combination Act, each of which may have certain anti-takeover effects. We rely on the security and integrity of our electronic data systems and our business could be damaged by a security breach or other compromise of these systems. If we are unable to safeguard our electronic data, our intellectual property could be compromised which may harm our reputation and damage customer relationships. In addition, if we suffer an unauthorized intrusion into our own systems, we, or our customers, may suffer a loss of proprietary information that could create liability for us and undermine our business. Additionally, if our systems are inaccessible for a period of time, it may compromise our ability to perform business functions in a timely manner. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 