ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. 4 Airline Industry Concerns Several of the Company's aviation clients filed for bankruptcy protection during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. The aviation industry continues to struggle with various challenges including the cost of security and higher fuel prices. Additional bankruptcy filings by aviation and non-aviation clients could have a material adverse impact on the Company's liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions Part of the Company’s growth strategy involves acquiring other quality security services companies. Our acquisition strategy entails numerous risks. The pursuit of acquisition candidates is expensive and may not be successful. Our ability to complete future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and, if necessary, finance those acquisitions, in each case, before any attractive candidates are purchased by other parties, some of whom may have greater financial and other resources than us. Whether or not any particular acquisition is successfully completed, each of these activities is expensive and time consuming and would likely require our management to spend considerable time and effort to accomplish them, which would detract from their ability to run our current business. Although we may spend considerable expense and effort to pursue acquisitions, we may not be successful in completing them. Further, the Company’s ability to grow through acquisitions will depend in part on whether it can identify suitable acquisition candidates and reach attractive prices and terms. Acquisitions could result in the occurrence of one or more of the following events: · dilutive issuances of equity securities, · additional debt and contingent liabilities, · increased amortization expenses related to intangible assets, · difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and · the diversion of management’s attention from other business activities. The Company currently has no commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisition. Nor is it certain that it will complete other acquisitions necessary to complement its growth strategy on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, if the Company does not successfully integrate the operations of any companies that it has acquired or subsequently acquires, it may not achieve the potential benefits of such acquisitions. Additional Financing We believe that existing funds, cash generated from operations, and existing sources of and access to financing are adequate to satisfy our working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot assure you that this will be the case, and we may be required to obtain additional financing to maintain and expand our existing operations through the sale of our securities, an increase in our credit facilities or otherwise. The failure by us to obtain such financing, if needed, would have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition The Company's assumptions regarding projected results depend largely upon the Company’s ability to retain substantially all of its current clients. Retention is affected by several factors including, but not limited to, regulatory limitations, the quality of the services provided by the Company, the quality and pricing of comparable services offered by competitors, continuity of management and non-management personnel. There are several major national competitors with resources greater than those of the Company that, therefore, have the ability to provide more attractive service, cost and compensation incentives to clients and employees than those provided by the Company. Our ability to gain or maintain sales, gross margins and/or employees may be limited as a result of actions by competitors. Service Contracts Our largest expenses are for payroll and related taxes and employee benefits. Most of our service contracts provide for fixed hourly billing rates. Competitive pressures in the security and aviation services industries may prevent us from increasing our hourly billing rates on contract anniversary or renewal dates. If, due to inflation or other reasons, we must increase the wages, salaries and related taxes and benefits of our employees at rates in excess of what we can increase the billing rates charged under our service contracts, then our profitability would be adversely affected. In many cases, our security and aviation services contracts require us to indemnify our clients or may otherwise subject us to additional liability for events occurring on client premises. While we maintain insurance programs that we believe provide appropriate coverage for certain liability risks, including personal injury, death and property damage, the laws of many states limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive damages arising from willful or grossly negligent conduct. Therefore, insurance may not be adequate to cover all potential claims or damages. If a plaintiff brings a successful claim against us for punitive damages in excess of our insurance coverage, then we could incur substantial liabilities that would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Staffing Our business involves the labor-intensive delivery of contract security and aviation services. We derive our revenues primarily from contract security and aviation services performed by our hourly employees. Our future performance depends in large part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain our skilled operational and administrative staffs. The loss of the services of, or the failure to recruit, the required complement of operational and administrative staff would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to secure and complete service contracts. Additionally, if we do not successfully manage our existing operational and administrative staffs, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated gross margins, service quality, overtime levels and other performance measures that are important to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in Accounting Standards and Taxation Requirements New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to our Company from time to time, and changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. We are also subject to income and various other taxes in the numerous jurisdictions where we generate revenues. Increases in income or other tax rates could reduce our after-tax results from affected jurisdictions in which we operate. Collective Bargaining Agreements and Organized Labor Action Many of our employees at our operating locations are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If we are unable to renew such agreements on satisfactory terms, our labor costs could increase, which would affect our gross margins. Our industry has been the subject of campaigns to increase the number of unionized employees. In addition, strikes or work stoppages at our locations could impair our ability to provide contracted services to our customers, which would reduce our revenues and could expose us to customer claims. Although we believe that our relationships with our employees are good, we cannot provide you with any assurances that organized labor action at one or more of our operating locations will not occur, or that any such activities, or any other labor difficulties at our operating locations, would not materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consulting Agreement with Giuliani Security & Safety In January 2006, the Company entered into a consulting agreement (the “Consulting Agreement”) with Giuliani Security & Safety LLC (“Giuliani Security”) to provide a broad range of guidance and assistance to the Company to help grow its business in the areas of security, crisis management, fire and life safety and counterterrorism. As compensation for Giuliani Security’s performance of its obligations under the Consulting Agreement, the Company agreed to pay Giuliani Security a monthly cash fee during the term of the engagement of one hundred seventy five thousand dollars ($175,000). The Consulting Agreement had a term of one year. Management expected that fees paid under the Consulting Agreement would have a negative impact on the Company’s current year results of operations. Cost Management The Company's ability to realize expectations will be largely dependent upon management and its ability to maintain gross margins, which in turn will be determined in large part by management's control over costs and increased pressure on its vendors to cut their costs. To a significant extent, certain costs are not within the control of management and margins may be adversely affected by such items as litigation expenses, fees incurred in connection with extraordinary business transactions, inflation, labor unrest, increased payroll and related costs, which would adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Collection of Accounts Receivable The aviation industry in general poses a high degree of customer credit risk. Any such default by one or more significant clients due to bankruptcy or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on the Company's liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Loss of a Large Customer Our success depends in part upon the retention of our large security and aviation services customers. In general, security services companies such as ours face the risk of losing customers as a result of the expiration, or termination of a contract, or as a result of a merger or acquisition, business failure or the selection of another provider of security services. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from large airline and security services customers some of which are experiencing substantial financial difficulties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain all or a substantial portion of our long-term customers or develop relationships with new customers in the future. Loss of Key Management Personnel Our success depends upon the talents and efforts of key management personnel, several of whom have been with our company or our industry for decades, including Barry I. Regenstein, Martin C. Blake, Jr., Debra M. Miller, John C. Reed and William A. Vigna. The loss of any such management personnel, due to retirement or otherwise, and our inability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Concentration of Stock Ownership Although none of the Company’s directors and officers has any agreements relating to the manner in which they will vote their shares of the Company’s common stock, such parties together own shares representing approximately 57% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock. The concentration of ownership among these shareholders could give them the power to influence the outcome of substantially all matters subject to a vote of the Company’s shareholders, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Such decisions may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Stock Price Volatility The stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. The market price of the Company’s common stock may also fluctuate as a result of variations in our operating results. Due to the nature of our business, the market price of the common stock may fall in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: announcements of competitive developments by others; changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; a loss of a major customer; additions or departures of key management or other personnel; future sale of our common or preferred stock; acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; our historical and anticipated operating results; quarterly fluctuations in our financial and operating results; changes in market valuations of other companies that operate in our business markets or industry sector; and general market and economic conditions. Information Systems We are increasingly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for electronic communications among our locations around the country and between Company personnel and our customers and suppliers. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches, our operations could be disrupted or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. Regulation If the current regulation and federalization of pre-board screening services provided by the Company is expanded into other areas such as general security and baggage handling at aviation facilities, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially, adversely affected. Catastrophic Events The Company is exposed to potential claims for catastrophic events, such as acts of terrorism, or based upon allegations that the Company failed to perform its services in accordance with contractual or industry standards. The Company's insurance coverage limits are currently $5,000,000 and $30,000,000 per occurrence for guard and aviation services, respectively. Effective October 1, 2006, the policy limit for guard services was increased to $7,000,000 per occurrence with an additional excess umbrella policy of $5,000,000. The Company retains the risk for the first $25,000 per occurrence on the non-aviation related policy that includes airport wheelchair and electric cart operations and $5,000 on the aviation related policy (except $25,000 for damage to aircraft and $100,000 for skycap operations). The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established a program within the United States Department of the Treasury, under which the federal government shares, with the insurance industry, the risk of loss from future “acts of terrorism,” as defined in the Act. The Company does not currently maintain additional insurance coverage for losses arising from “acts of terrorism.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 