Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Airline Industry Concerns Several of the Company’s aviation clients filed for bankruptcy protection during fiscal 2006 and 2005. The aviation industry continues to struggle with various challenges including the cost of security and higher fuel prices. Additional bankruptcy filings by aviation and non-aviation clients could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions Our acquisition strategy entails numerous risks. The pursuit of acquisition candidates is expensive and may not be successful. Our ability to complete future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and, if necessary, finance those acquisitions, in each case, before any attractive candidates are purchased by other parties, some of whom may have greater financial and other resources than us. Whether or not any particular acquisition is closed successfully, each of these activities is expensive and time consuming and would likely require our management to spend considerable time and effort to accomplish them, which would detract from their ability to run our current business. Although we may spend considerable expense and effort to pursue acquisitions, we may not be successful in closing them. Competition The Company’s assumptions regarding projected results depend largely upon the Company’s ability to retain substantially all of its current clients. Retention is affected by several factors including, but not limited to, regulatory limitations, the quality of the services provided by the Company, the quality and pricing of comparable services offered by competitors, continuity of management and non-management personnel. There are several major national competitors with resources greater than those of the Company which, therefore, have the ability to provide more attractive service, cost and compensation incentives to clients and employees than those provided by the Company. Our ability to gain or maintain sales, gross margins and/or employees may be limited as a result of actions by competitors. Changes in Accounting Standards and Taxation Requirements New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to our Company from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. We are also subject to income tax and various business taxes in the numerous jurisdictions in which we generate revenues. Increases in income or business tax rates could reduce our after-tax results from affected jurisdictions in which we operate. 4 Collective Bargaining Agreements Many of our employees at our operating locations are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If we are unable to renew such agreements on satisfactory terms, our labor costs could increase, which would affect our gross margins. In addition, strikes or work stoppages at our locations could impair our ability to provide contracted services to our customers, which would reduce our revenues and could expose us to customer claims. Consulting Agreement with Giuliani Security & Safety In January 2006, the Company entered into a consulting agreement (the “Consulting Agreement”) with Giuliani Security & Safety LLC (“Giuliani Security”) to provide a broad range of guidance and assistance to the Company to help grow its business in the areas of security, crisis management, fire and life safety and counterterrorism. As compensation for Giuliani Security’s performance of its obligations under the Consulting Agreement, the Company has agreed to pay Giuliani Security a monthly cash fee during the term of the engagement of one hundred seventy five thousand dollars ($175,000). The Consulting Agreement has a term of one year. Management expects that fees paid under the Consulting Agreement will have a negative impact on the Company’s future results of operations which will diminish over time as and to the extent that benefits derived from the engagement begin to be realized by the Company. Cost Management The Company’s ability to realize expectations will be largely dependent upon management and its ability to maintain gross margins, which in turn will be determined in large part by management’s control over costs and increased pressure on its vendors to cut their costs. To a significant extent, certain costs are not within the control of management and margins may be adversely affected by such items as litigation expenses, fees incurred in connection with extraordinary business transactions, inflation, labor unrest, increased payroll and related costs. Collection of Accounts Receivable Management has no definite basis to believe that default in payment of accounts receivable by the Company’s aviation and security services customers or administrative service clients will occur. However, the aviation industry in general poses a high degree of risk. Any such default by one or more significant clients due to bankruptcy or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Loss of a Large Customer Our success depends in part upon the retention of our large security and aviation services customers. In general, security services companies such as ours face the risk of losing customers as a result of a contract expiration, merger or acquisition, business failure or the selection of another provider of security services. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from large airline and security services customers some of which are experiencing substantial financial difficulties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain long-term relationships or secure renewals of short-term relationships with our customers in the future. Loss of Key Management Personnel Our success depends upon the talents and efforts of key management personnel, several of whom have been with our company or our industry for decades, including Barry I. Regenstein, Martin C. Blake, Jr., Jeffrey Edmiston and Debra M. Miller. The loss of any such management personnel, due to retirement or otherwise, and the inability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Information Systems We are increasingly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for electronic communications among our locations around the country and between Company personnel and our customers and suppliers. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create disruptions, shutdowns 5 or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches, our operations could be disrupted or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. Regulation The Company’s management assumes that the current regulation and federalization of pre-board screening services provided by the Company will not be expanded into other areas such as general security and baggage handling at aviation facilities. Such increased regulation or federalization would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Catastrophic Events The Company is exposed to potential claims for catastrophic events, such as acts of terrorism, or based upon allegations that the Company failed to perform its services in accordance with contractual or industry standards. The Company’s insurance coverage limits are currently $5,000,000 and $30,000,000 per occurrence for guard and aviation services, respectively. The Company retains the risk for the first $25,000 per occurrence on the non-aviation related policy which includes airport wheelchair operations and $5,000 on the aviation related policy (except $25,000 for damage to aircraft and $100,000 for skycap and electric cart operations). The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established a program within the United States Department of the Treasury, under which the federal government shares, with the insurance industry, the risk of loss from future “acts of terrorism,” as defined in the Act. The Company does not currently ma intain additional insurance coverage for losses arising from “acts of terrorism”. These are representative of the factors that could affect our future financial position and results of operations, and cause our actual performance to differ from the forward-looking statements we have made herein, and in our other publicly filed documents and statements. In addition, our financial position and operating results could be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general economic conditions, including interest rate fluctuations and other factors. Additional detailed information concerning a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the information contained herein is readily available in the Company’s most recent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and any amendments thereto (all as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time). Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 