ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or future operating results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Airline Industry Concerns Several of our aviation customers filed for protection from their creditors under applicable bankruptcy and similar laws during our past three fiscal years. The aviation industry continues to face various financial and other challenges, including the cost of security and fluctuating fuel prices. Additional bankruptcy filings by aviation and non-aviation customers could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions Part of our growth strategy involves acquiring other quality security services companies. Our acquisition strategy entails numerous risks. The pursuit of acquisition candidates is expensive and may not be successful. Our ability to complete future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and, if necessary, finance those acquisitions, in each case, before any attractive candidates are purchased by other parties, some of whom have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. Whether or not any particular acquisition is successfully completed, each of these activities is expensive and time consuming and would likely require our management to spend considerable time and effort to complete, which would detract from our management’s ability to run our current business. Although we may spend considerable funds and efforts to pursue acquisitions, we may not be able to complete them. Further, our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend in part on whether we can identify suitable acquisition candidates upon attractive terms, including price. Acquisitions could result in the occurrence of one or more of the following events: · dilutive issuances of equity securities; · incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities; · increased amortization expenses related to intangible assets; · difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and · diversion of management’s attention from our other business activities. We currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisition. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete additional acquisitions that we believe are necessary to complement our growth strategy on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, if we do not successfully integrate the operations of any companies that we have acquired or subsequently acquire, we may not achieve the potential benefits of such acquisitions. Additional Financing We believe that our existing funds, cash generated from operations, and existing sources of and access to financing are adequate to satisfy our working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot assure you that this will be the case, and we may be required to obtain additional financing to maintain and expand our existing operations through the sale of our securities, an increase in our credit facilities or otherwise. The failure by us to obtain such financing, if needed, would have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Credit and Security Agreement Our Credit and Security Agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions on us, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking certain corporate actions. These restrictions limit our ability to: · guarantee additional indebtedness; · pay dividends and make distributions; · make certain investments; · repurchase stock; · incur liens; · transfer or sell assets; · enter into sale and leaseback transactions; · merge or consolidate; and · engage in a materially different line of business. 4 These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, pursue available business opportunities or take certain corporate actions. Competition Our assumptions regarding projected results depend largely upon our ability to retain substantially all of our current customers and obtain new customers. Retention is affected by several factors including, but not limited to, regulatory limitations, the quality of the services that we provide, the quality and pricing of comparable services offered by competitors and continuity of our management and non-management personnel. There are several major national competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and that, therefore, have the ability to provide more attractive service, cost and compensation incentives to customers and employees than we are able to provide. Our ability to gain or maintain sales, gross margins and/or employees may be limited as a result of actions by our competitors. Service Contracts Our largest expenses are for payroll and related taxes and employee benefits. Most of our service contracts provide for fixed hourly billing rates. Competitive pressures in the security and aviation services industries may prevent us from increasing our hourly billing rates on contract anniversary or renewal dates. Our profitability will be adversely affected if we are compelled to increase the wages, salaries and related benefits of our employees in amounts that exceed the amount that we can pass on to our customers through increased billing rates charged under our service contracts. In many cases, our security and aviation services contracts require us to indemnify our customers or may otherwise subject us to additional liability for events occurring on customer premises. While we maintain insurance programs that we believe provide appropriate coverage for certain liability risks, including personal injury, death and property damage, the laws of many states limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive damages arising from willful or grossly negligent conduct. Therefore, insurance may not be adequate to cover all potential claims or damages. If a plaintiff brings a successful claim against us for punitive damages in excess of our insurance coverage, then we could incur substantial liabilities that would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Staffing Our business involves the labor-intensive delivery of security and aviation services. We derive our revenues primarily from services rendered by our hourly employees. Our future performance depends in large part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain our skilled operational and administrative staff. The loss of the services of, or the failure to recruit, the required complement of operational and administrative staff would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to secure and complete security service contracts. Additionally, if we do not successfully manage our existing operational and administrative staff, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated gross margins, service quality, overtime levels and other performance measures that are important to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in Accounting Standards and Taxation Requirements New accounting standards or pronouncements that become applicable to us and our financial statements from time to time, and changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. We are also subject to income and various other taxes in the numerous jurisdictions where we generate revenues. Increases in income or other tax rates could reduce our after-tax results from affected jurisdictions in which we operate. Collective Bargaining Agreements and Organized Labor Action Many of our employees at our operating locations are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If we are unable to renew such agreements on satisfactory terms, our labor costs could increase, which would affect our gross margins. The security industry has been the subject of campaigns to increase the number of unionized employees. In addition, strikes or work stoppages at our locations could impair our ability to provide required services to our customers, which would reduce our revenues and expose us to customer claims. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that organized labor action at one or more of our operating locations will not occur, or that any such activities, or any other labor difficulties at our operating locations, would not materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cost Management Our ability to realize expectations will be largely dependent upon management and our ability to maintain or increase gross margins, which in turn will be determined in large part by management's ability to control our expenses. However, to a significant extent, certain costs are not within the control of management, and margins may be adversely affected by a number of items, including litigation expenses, fees incurred in connection with extraordinary business transactions, inflation, labor unrest, increased payroll and related costs. Our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected if the costs associated with these items are greater than we anticipate. 5 Collection of Accounts Receivable The aviation industry in general poses a high degree of customer credit risk. Any default by one or more of our significant customers due to bankruptcy or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Loss of Large Customers Our success depends in part upon retaining our large security and aviation services customers. In general, security services companies such as ours face the risk of losing customers as a result of the expiration or termination of a contract, or as a result of a merger or acquisition or business failure involving our large customers, or the selection by such customers of another provider of security services. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from large airline and security services customers, some of which are experiencing substantial financial difficulties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain all or a substantial portion of our long-term or significant customers or develop relationships with new significant customers in the future. Loss of Key Management Personnel Our success depends to a significant extent upon the talents and efforts of our key management personnel, several of whom have been with our company or have worked in our industry for decades. We have programs in place that have been designed to motivate, reward and retain such employees, including cash bonus and equity incentive plans. The loss or unavailability of any such management personnel, due to retirement, resignation or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified replacement personnel on a timely basis, or at all. Concentration of Stock Ownership Although none of our directors and officers has any agreement relating to the manner in which they will vote their shares of our common stock, such parties together own shares representing approximately 35% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. The concentration of ownership among these shareholders could give them the power to influence the outcome of substantially all matters subject to a vote of our shareholders, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Such decisions may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Stock Price Volatility The stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate as a result of variations in our operating results. Due to the nature of our business, the market price of the common stock may fall in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: announcements of competitive developments by others; changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; a loss of a major customer; additions or departures of key management or other personnel; future sale of our common or preferred stock; acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; our historical and anticipated operating results; quarterly fluctuations in our financial and operating results; changes in market valuations of other companies that operate in our business markets or industry sector; and general market and economic conditions. Information Systems/Technology We are increasingly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for electronic communications among our locations around the country and between our personnel and our customers and suppliers. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches, our operations could be disrupted or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. Changes in technologies that provide alternatives to security officer services or that decrease the number of security officers required to effectively perform their services may decrease our customers’ demand for our security officer services. In addition, if such technologies become available generally for use in the industry, these technologies may be proprietary in nature and not be available for use by us in servicing our customers. Even if these technologies are available for use by us, we may not be able to successfully integrate such technologies into our business or we may be less successful in doing so than our competitors or new entrants in the industry. A decrease in the demand for our security officer services or our inability to effectively utilize such technologies may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Regulation We are subject to a large number of city, county and state occupational licensing laws and regulations that apply to security officers. Any liability we may have from our failure to comply with these regulations may materially and adversely affect our business by restricting our operations and subjecting us to potential penalties. If the current regulation and federalization of pre-board screening and documentation verification services provided by us is expanded into other areas such as general security and baggage handling at aviation facilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our current and future operations may be subject to additional regulation as a result of, among other factors, new statutes and regulations and changes in the manner in which existing statutes and regulations are or may be interpreted. Economic Downturn During economic declines, some decisions to implement security programs and install systems may be deferred or cancelled. In other cases, customers may increase their purchases of security systems because they fear more inventory shrinkage and theft will occur due to increasing economic need. We are not able to accurately predict to what extent an economic slowdown will decrease the demand for our services. If demand for our services decreases, then our revenues will decline and the value of your investment in our company will be adversely affected. Catastrophic Events We are exposed to potential claims for catastrophic events, such as acts of terrorism, or based upon allegations that we failed to perform our services in accordance with contractual or industry standards. Our insurance coverage limits are currently $7,000,000 per occurrence for non-aviation related business (with an additional excess umbrella policy of $10,000,000) and $30,000,000 per occurrence for aviation related business. We retain the risk for the first $25,000 per occurrence on the non-aviation related policy that includes airport wheelchair and electric cart operations and $5,000 on the aviation related policy (except $25,000 for damage to aircraft and $100,000 for skycap operations). The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established a program within the United States Department of the Treasury, under which the federal government and the insurance industry, share the risk of loss from future “acts of terrorism,” as defined in such Act. We do not currently maintain additional insurance coverage for losses arising from “acts of terrorism.” In addition, terrorist attacks could have a material impact on us by increasing our insurance premium costs or making adequate insurance coverage unavailable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 