Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures 1 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking, including, but not limited to, statements regarding industry prospects; future results of operations or financial position; our expectations and beliefs regarding future revenue growth; the future capabilities and functionality of our products and services, our strategies and intentions regarding acquisitions; the outcome of any litigation to which we are a party; our accounting and tax policies; our future strategies regarding investments, product offerings, research and development, market share, and strategic relationships and collaboration; our dividend policies; and our future capital requirements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology, including “intend,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate” “predict,” “potential,” “future,” or “continue,” the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. Actual events or results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risks listed in Item 1A below. We do not guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this document to conform them to actual results or to changes in our expectations. Overview We design, develop and manufacture advanced wafer probing solutions for the electrical measurement of high performance chips. We design, manufacture and assemble our products in Beaverton, Oregon, with global sales, service and support centers in North America, Europe, Japan and Singapore. We were incorporated and introduced our first commercial products in 1984. Our products include engineering probe stations, analytical probes, production probe cards, application software and services. Engineering probe stations address the need for precise and accurate measurement of semiconductor electrical characteristics during chip design or when optimizing the chip fabrication process. Our engineering probe stations are highly configurable and are typically sold with various accessories, including our analytical probes and application software, as well as accessories from third parties. In addition, we design and build custom engineering probe stations to address the specific requirements of our customers. Analytical probes are used as consumable components of our engineering probe stations. Our production probe cards are designed and sold for production test applications, ranging from very low current parametric testing to sophisticated, high speed radio frequency testing. We refer to analytical probes and production probe cards as consumables, as they are routinely replaced during the testing process. We also generate revenue through the sale of service contracts to our customers. To date, we have derived the majority of our revenue from the sale of our engineering probe stations, and we expect to continue to do so for the next few years. Our production probe card revenue, however, has increased as a percentage of total revenues in 2005 and we expect that trend to continue in 2006. Where You Can Find More Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the “Exchange Act”). You can inspect and copy our reports, proxy statements, and other information filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. The SEC 2 maintains an Internet Web site at http://www.sec.gov/ where you can obtain some of our SEC filings. In addition, you can inspect our reports, proxy materials and other information at the offices of the Nasdaq Stock Market at 1735 K Street NW, Washington D.C. 20006. We also make available free of charge on our website at www.cascademicrotech.com our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. You can also obtain copies of these reports by contacting Investor Relations at 503-601-1000. Industry Background During the last decade, growth in the computer, telecommunications, consumer and industrial electronics markets has increased demand for chips. The Semiconductor Industry Association estimates that worldwide semiconductor sales totaled $227 billion in 2005 and are expected to grow to $309 billion in 2008. To reduce the cost and increase the performance of electronic products, chips have become smaller and faster and incorporate greater levels of functionality at a lower price. Advancements in manufacturing technologies, such as smaller chip elements, new materials, and larger wafer sizes have permitted manufacturers to meet these requirements. However, these advancements in chip manufacturing technologies have led to increasing challenges in the design, manufacturing and testing of chips. Chips are measured and tested multiple times throughout the design and manufacturing process to ensure the integrity of the chip design and the quality of the manufacturing process. Chip testing that occurs during design or in support of production is referred to as engineering test. Chip testing that occurs during manufacturing is referred to as production test. Engineering test involves performing a wide variety of highly precise measurements during chip research and development activities on a low volume of chips. Production test, in contrast, involves performing a targeted set of tests at a rapid rate on a high volume of chips. Our engineering products business and operating results depend in significant part on the level of capital expenditures related to semiconductor research and development, which, in turn, depends upon current and anticipated market demand for chips. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of over-supply, which has often resulted in a reduction in demand for our products. While our financial results are impacted by cycles within the semiconductor industry, we believe our business cycles are typically less pronounced than those of other semiconductor equipment companies. We believe this is due to our greater reliance on our customers’ research and development capital spending and usage of test consumables rather than on our customers’ spending to increase production capacity. Capital spending aimed at increasing production capacity is one of the first areas in which most semiconductor manufacturers reduce spending in an industry downturn. Products We design, manufacture and sell multiple product lines, including engineering probe stations, analytical probes, production probe cards, application software, and various services. An engineering probe station is used in conjunction with our application software and analytical probes to test chips in wafer form, together forming an engineering probing system. Analytical probes electrically connect test equipment to the chips under test and are sold as consumable components of, and are mounted into, engineering probe stations. Engineering probing systems are required in the development of new generations of chip processes and designs, and we expect that the demand for engineering probing systems will continue to grow approximately at the rate of worldwide semiconductor revenues. The process development complexities and costs have continually increased as each generation of semiconductor process has required the integration of more layers of smaller chip elements incorporating a longer list of new materials. Engineering probing systems are a basic tool for characterizing and verifying the electrical performance, reliability, and repeatability of the new chip elements. 3 Engineering Probe Stations. We offer engineering probe stations for 300mm, 200mm and 150mm or smaller wafer sizes. Engineering probe stations are highly configurable depending upon the size and type of wafer, the particular characteristics of the chip that the customer is testing, the required measurements, the temperatures at which the chip is tested and the test equipment that the customer is using. Our engineering probe stations are available in either manual or semiautomatic versions. We also offer many probe station accessories, including thermal control systems, special cables and connectors, microscopes, lasers, cameras and other items. 300mm wafer technology more than doubles the available area on a wafer, increasing the number of chips per wafer and reducing per unit manufacturing costs compared to 200mm wafers. While many industry players continue to ramp up 300mm wafer volumes, high conversion costs combined with continued process developments on 200mm wafers continue to make sales of our non-300mm probing systems an important component of our revenue stream for the foreseeable future. In early 2005 we introduced the Pureline option for our 200mm and 300mm probe stations. Pureline extends the low-current and low-voltage measurement capabilities of these stations, thus extending our performance and technology lead vs. competitive stations. In mid-2005 we introduced a new microscope product for our 300mm and 200mm probe station families we call the eVue microscope. This is a high-performance digital microscope with advanced and unique navigation and probing-specific features. eVue enables us to address and differentiate our offerings in new application segments within engineering wafer probing. One of our stated growth strategies is to work with strategic partners to deliver new solutions, and the eVue microscope is the result of one such relationship. Another of our stated growth strategies is to expand our end-market opportunities. In mid-2005 we announced the L-Series platform, our first standard products for life sciences applications. For several years biological researchers have been one of the niche groups using our engineering probe stations. These customers require sophisticated microscopy, sample environment control, electrical probing and mechanical manipulators. The L-Series adds to these capabilities microfluidic ports for delivery of precise quantities of liquids for microfluidics research. Analytical Probes. We offer over 50 different analytical probe models primarily for engineering test. The newer Infinity series probes are designed with unique probe tips derived from our proprietary lithographic manufacturing technology, and offer exceptional electrical contact on aluminum and copper pads. While our analytical probes are used primarily for engineering test, several of our analytical probes are also used in production testing of some high-frequency devices. In 2005 we continued to add new models of analytical probes that address higher frequency and higher complexity measurements. Application Software. Our proprietary WinCal software is specifically designed to facilitate and improve the user’s productivity during set-up, calibration and data-logging to perform sophisticated high frequency measurements accurately and reliably. During 2005 we introduced and began shipping our new platform, WinCal2006, which significantly enhances WinCal’s measurement capabilities and improves user productivity in making complex measurements. Services. In addition to routine installation services at the time of sale, we offer services to enable our customers to maintain and more effectively utilize our equipment, probes and software and to enhance our customer relationships. Production Probe Cards. The fastest growing segment of our business is our production probe cards, also known as Pyramid probe cards. A probe card temporarily connects one or more chips on a wafer under test to a production tester. Probe cards are customized for each new chip type and physically wear out during usage in production testing. Depending upon the test environment, production probe cards may last for several hundred thousand to roughly 1 to 2 million contact cycles. Production card sales are driven by production unit volumes of the IC’s being tested. 4 One of our stated growth strategies is to grow the sales of consumables. In 2005, our probe card revenues were up 69% over 2004, comprising approximately 14% of total 2005 revenue. We achieved growth in demand from our customers in all geographical regions and expect the growth in production cards to continue during 2006. As chip makers continue to decrease the cost of fabricating chip elements by about 25-30% per year, production test departments must similarly reduce chip test costs. A common strategy today is to increase the number of chips tested simultaneously, or parallel test. At the production wafer probe stage memory chips are typically tested 64 to 200 at a time. Comparatively, logic and mixed-signal chips are typically tested 2 to 8 at a time due to the higher number of connections per chip, increased test complexities, and in many cases, lower unit volumes. We focus our production probe card applications exclusively on logic and mixed-signal chip testing. The value propositions driving our Pyramid Probe growth are several unique advantages that reduce the cost of production testing. First, Pyramid Probes provide a solid solution for decreased test costs through increased parallelism in logic test, an application that has become increasingly problematic for conventional cantilever probe cards on wirebonded chips. Second, for smaller and thinner chip pads Pyramid provides consistent electrical contact with less pad damage, especially for chips with low-k dielectrics or requiring higher reliability. Third, the cost of ownership of Pyramid cards is often lower than for conventional cards. Fourth, for RF or wireless chip applications Pyramid technology allows test speeds ranging to well above 20 GHz, which is many times the electrical performance of any other production probe card. Other benefits include superior electrical contact, less probe card maintenance, and less tester downtime for probe cleaning or repair. The chips tested by Pyramid Probe cards were originally limited to mostly high-speed communications chips and wireless chips, where testing benefited from the unique electrical performance. Pyramid sales for chips used in wireless and RF applications, such as cellular phones, wireless LAN, or Bluetooth products, continue to increase strongly due to the growth of those end applications as well as the trend to more thoroughly test these chips at the wafer level before assembling them into more expensive modules. The other major Pyramid application today is parallel test of wirebonded logic chips for a wide range of end applications. Such chips include various microcontrollers, digital signal processors, data converters, power management chips, application-specific standard products (“ASSPs”) and others. Customers and Geographic Revenue Our products are used by semiconductor manufacturers, test subcontractors, research organizations and designers. Fabless semiconductor suppliers do not manufacture their own semiconductors but they purchase our analytical probes and engineering probe stations for research and development and purchase, or direct their foundries to purchase, our Pyramid Probe cards to test chips manufactured for them. We have built strong relationships with our customers through frequent interactions over the past 20 years. To foster stronger customer relationships, we conduct analyses for the needs of our customers’ new labs or products, seminars on topics such as measurement techniques, and proactive service calls. This close interaction has helped us build a consistently loyal customer base. More than 800 customers purchased our products in 2005. Our top 20 end-user customers during 2005 were: Agilent, Broadcom, Chartered Semiconductor, Freescale, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Hynix Semiconductor, IBM, Infineon, Intel, Micron Technology, NEC, Raytheon, RF Micro Devices, Samsung, Sony, Spansion, ST Microelectronics, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and Texas Instruments. We believe our customers consider timely customer service and support to be an important aspect of our relationship. Our engineering probe stations are installed at customer sites either by us, our manufacturers’ representatives or our distributors, depending on the complexity of the installation and the customer’s geographic location. We assist our customers in the selection, integration and use of our products by providing engineering application support. We also provide worldwide on-site training, seminars and telephone support. Our manufacturers’ representatives and distributors provide additional service and support. 5 In 2005 and 2004, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. In 2003, sales of our products to IBM represented 11% of our total revenue. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 33%, 34%, and 34% of our total revenue in each of 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. International sales accounted for more than 50% of our total revenue in each of 2005, 2004 and 2003. Two foreign countries, Japan and Taiwan, had revenues that totaled 10% or more of our total revenues in 2005, 2004 or 2003. Geographic revenue was as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 United States $ 23,877 $ 24,762 $ 24,708 Japan 15,085 14,909 11,838 Taiwan 7,612 6,853 3,631 Other 27,063 17,891 10,379 $ 73,637 $ 64,415 $ 50,556 Segments The segment data below is presented in the same manner that management organizes the segments for assessing certain performance trends. Our Chief Operating Decision Maker monitors the revenue streams of engineering products and Pyramid probe products. The following table summarizes revenue for each of our business segments. We do not track our operating income or assets on a segment level, and, accordingly, that information is not provided (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Revenue from sales to external customers 2005 2004 2003 EPD (Engineering Products Division) $ 63,566 $ 58,467 $ 47,345 PPD (Pyramid Probe Division) 10,071 5,948 3,211 $ 73,637 $ 64,415 $ 50,556 We are not able to provide revenue by product line or group of similar products within a division as it would be impracticable to do so. Technology We are a leading innovator in developing electrical measurement, or metrology, and production test tools. One of our stated growth strategies is to continue to develop next-generation technologies. We have focused our research and development efforts on enabling our customers to take more precise electrical measurements in less time, on smaller and more dense devices, and with more robustness. Our core technologies include: • Broadband/High-Frequency/High Speed Interconnects and Probing. In 1983, our founders created the first microwave analytical probes that enabled the first on-wafer 18 GHz measurements and accelerated the commercialization of gallium arsenide chips. We use and maintain a wide variety of design, verification, fabrication and calibration technologies for high-frequency probes and interconnections. For example, we have developed a complete library of high-frequency circuit elements for our Pyramid probe layouts, similar to passive element libraries for chip foundries. We believe that these technologies provide a competitive advantage by allowing us to more effectively design and commercialize production probe cards and analytical probes. • Precise Low-Level Measurements. In 1993, we were first to commercialize a shielded probe station utilizing our patented MicroChamber technology that increased thermal measurement productivity by 10 times and current measurement resolutions by 1,000 times. Many of our engineering probe stations feature MicroChambers, which ensure a dark, electrically noise-free measurement environment to enable low-current measurements over a wide thermal range. Our engineering probe stations also incorporate our proprietary low-noise thermal 6 chuck technologies that increase measurement integrity and reduce the time required to take precise measurements. These features, in turn, increase the number of chips that can be tested or measured in a given amount of time. During 2005 we introduced our Pureline option, which implements our latest probe station technologies for improved low-current and low-voltage measurements. • Microfabrication. Since 1990, we have shipped products that utilize our proprietary lithographic manufacturing processes for depositing, lithographic patterning, etching and plating probe structures on flexible substrates that are similar to the processes used in making chips. Our proprietary Pyramid technology has been under development since 1992 and continues to evolve and improve. At the center of a Pyramid probe card, tester connections converge on the chips under test through our unique, lithographically defined microscopic probe tips and electrical interconnection wiring. We print the patented probe tips and interconnects on a flexible substrate in much the same manner as chips or circuit boards are printed, but with our unique materials and probe designs. Our processing continues to mature and evolve, enabling faster delivery times, larger probe areas, smaller tip dimensions and interconnects, and wider test temperature ranges. As chip elements continue to shrink, we expect to be able to scale and evolve our lithographic processes to continue to meet our customers’ requirements. Sales and Marketing We sell our engineering probe stations, analytical probes and production probe cards through a combination of manufacturers’ representatives, distributors and direct sales people. Manufacturers’ representatives are independent third parties that agree to sell our products at our prices and on terms set by us, in return for a commission based on sales. We typically use manufacturers’ representatives in areas that we believe require greater levels of customer support than we can deliver from our sales offices. Distributors purchase our products and resell them at prices and upon terms set by the particular distributor. We typically use distributors where local regulations or business customs require local stocking of service parts, more immediate service support or other local services. Finally, our direct sales force is made up of our salaried employees. In North America and Asia, excluding Japan, Singapore and Malaysia, we sell our products through manufacturers’ representatives and a direct sales force. In Japan, we sell through Cascade Microtech Japan, K.K., our direct sales and service subsidiary. In Singapore and Malaysia, we sell through our branch office, Cascade Microtech Singapore. We are currently in the process of establishing a distribution sales office in China and a direct sales office in Taiwan. In Europe, we primarily sell through distributors and manufacturers’ representatives managed by Cascade Microtech Europe, Ltd., our direct sales and service subsidiary in the United Kingdom. We also sell certain products directly in Germany, Austria, Switzerland France, the Benelux countries, Italy and Spain. In other countries, we typically sell through manufacturers representatives or distributors. Our sales managers oversee and manage these worldwide sales activities. We work closely with our customers to select the most appropriate product or to configure a custom solution to best fit their applications. Sales of our engineering test solutions require significant interaction with our customers’ engineering labs and knowledge of their product development schedules and systems, as well as on-site demonstration capability. We also may assist our customers in the design requirements for their products to enhance testability. Sales of our production test solutions require significant interaction with customer production test managers, knowledge of their specific product details and hands-on application support, particularly for new customers. Our production customers generally undertake an extensive evaluation of new probe technology before adoption. Our sales managers are experienced sales professionals with in-depth technical training, customer knowledge and industry expertise. The technical sophistication of our products requires substantial training for our manufacturers’ representatives, distributors and sales staff. We devote considerable effort and resources to developing a highly trained sales force that is responsive to our customers’ changing needs. 7 We focus our marketing efforts on building awareness of our products among designers and manufacturers of complex semiconductors. We market our products and capabilities by participating in trade shows, providing product and technical information in print and on our website, hosting technical and product seminars, advertising in trade publications and using direct mailings. In addition, our marketing staff performs market research and product planning. We also participate in joint sales and marketing activities with complementary equipment and software vendors to offer our customers complete test solutions. These relationships benefit us because they can lead to broader awareness and increased sales of our products. Research and Development Our industry is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and improvements. Our continued investment in research and development and timely introduction of new products and services is critical to maintaining and improving our competitive position. Our growth depends upon our ability to rapidly develop new products that enable customers to improve their electrical, optical and mechanical measurements and increase their productivity. As a result, we expect to continue to devote substantial resources to research and development. Our research and development expenses were $7.0 million in 2005, $5.7 million in 2004 and $5.4 million in 2003. These amounts are net of customer reimbursements of $0, $94,000 and $248,000, respectively, in 2005, 2004 and 2003 for work on a joint project. We did not expend material amounts on customer-sponsored research and development in 2005, 2004 or 2003. In addition, we do not currently have any agreements with third parties for joint research and development projects. We are currently devoting substantial resources to projects such as releasing new Pyramid Probe products and manufacturing processes, developing faster, higher accuracy analytical probes and enhancing the functionality of our 300mm engineering probe stations. At December 31, 2005, we employed 45 research and development engineers. We conduct research and development for all of our product lines at our Beaverton, Oregon facilities. Manufacturing and Assembly Our manufacturing and assembly operations consist of the production of highly complex and sophisticated components and assemblies, some of which are customized to meet customers’ needs and specifications. We perform nearly all of our manufacturing and assembly in Beaverton, Oregon at our manufacturing facility within our headquarters building, at our Pyramid Probe microfabrication and assembly facility and at our machine shop. Our microfabrication facility includes a 10,000 square foot clean room. Our manufacturing strategy is to purchase components from vendors to the extent possible. However, we manufacture key components that we deem to be proprietary or that provide us with a competitive advantage. We depend on limited source suppliers for some materials, components and subassemblies used in our products. Our product design and manufacturing process activities emphasize accurate electrical measurements, precise and reliable mechanical components and assemblies, and compliance with industry and governmental safety requirements. We prototype and test our new standard product designs and components to ensure high electrical signal integrity, mechanical accuracy and safety. In our manufacturing operations, we perform electrical, mechanical and chemical tests and use statistical process control methods, internally developed manufacturing information systems and inspections of purchased components and products to monitor our product quality throughout the various stages of our manufacturing process. When fully equipped and staffed, the capacity of our probe card microfabrication facility is estimated to be about $40 million annually with our current probe card product mix. We are currently using less than one third of the facility’s capacity. In the near term, our probe card growth rate, therefore, relies on our ability to recruit and train enough top-quality people for product fulfillment and field support. We have stepped up our recruiting efforts and we expect to make further investments in equipment to expand production run rates during 2006. 8 Competition The markets for engineering probe stations, analytical probes and production probe cards are highly competitive. We anticipate that the markets for our products will continually evolve and be subject to rapid technological change. Engineering Probe Stations. Our primary competitor in the engineering probe station market is Suss MicroTec AG (Karl Suss), but we also compete with Bekutasemikon K.K., Lucas/Signatone Corporation, The Micromanipulator Company Inc. and Wentworth Laboratories Inc., among others. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the engineering probe station market are measurement accuracy and versatility, measurement speed, automation features, completeness of the measurement solutions, applications support, delivery time and price. We compete favorably with respect to these factors, except in small niche markets where customers seek solutions that provide highly specialized testing environments. Analytical Probes. Our primary competitor in the analytical probe market is GGB Industries. We believe that the primary competitive factors in this market are breadth of probe types, probe frequency and electrical signal integrity, contact integrity and the related cleaning required, calibration support, applications support, delivery time and price. We compete favorably with respect to these factors, except in small niche markets where customers seek solutions that provide highly specialized testing environments. Production Probe Cards. Competition in the production probe card market is fragmented and characterized by many suppliers offering products based on differing technologies. Our Pyramid Probe cards compete with product offerings of other probe card vendors including Feinmetall GmbH, FormFactor Inc., GGB Industries Inc., Japan Electronic Materials Corporation, Mesatronics S.A., Micronics Japan Company, Ltd., MicroProbe Inc., Micro Square Technology Inc., PHICOM Corporation, SV Probe Inc., Technoprobe S.r.l., Tokyo Cathode Laboratory Company Ltd., Wentworth Laboratories Inc. and others. At least three probe card vendors, FormFactor Inc., Mesatronics S.A. and PHICOM Corporation, are also offering probe cards built using types of lithographic patterning. The high capital investment and other costs associated with the development of lithographically defined probe cards and the time and high cost of customer evaluation, represent a significant barrier to entry for this type of technology. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the production probe market depend upon the type of chip being tested, but include customer service, delivery time, price, probe card lifetime, chip damage, application support, probe tip touch-down accuracy, speed and frequency of the probe card, number of chips contacted in parallel, number of probe tips and their layout, signal integrity, and frequency and effectiveness of cleaning required. We believe that we generally compete favorably in probe cards for high frequencies and high-speed signals, and in probe cards for parallel testing of chips with densely-packed bond pads. We generally do not compete in applications that require very large probe areas, such as memory test, or that require delivery times of less than two weeks, or that require very high currents, such as some microprocessors. Intellectual Property Our success in large part depends on our proprietary technology. We do not depend on any one individual patent, instead relying on intellectual property, including patents and trade secrets, covering electrical measurement reliability and integrity, electrical shielding and the Pyramid Probe contact structure and production process. As of December 31, 2005, we had 88 issued patents and 50 pending patent applications in the U.S. and 55 issued foreign patents and 74 pending foreign patent applications. In addition, we regard certain of our processes, information and know-how that we have developed and used to design and manufacture our products as proprietary trade secrets. One important group of our patents claims technology relating to electrical shielding and other inventions required to measure extremely small signals on wafers. Most of these U.S. patents will expire between 2012 and 2015. Another important group of our patents claims designs and construction methods for probe tips on Pyramid probes. These patents will expire beginning in 2016. 9 Our policy is to seek patents where appropriate on inventions involving new products and improvements to existing products as part of our ongoing engineering and research and development activities. We cannot assure you that any of our pending patent applications will be approved, that we will develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable, that any patents owned by or issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages or that these patents will not be challenged by third parties. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third parties will not design around our patents. We also use certain patented technology of third parties in the manufacture of our products pursuant to license agreements. Pursuant to an agreement with Micronics Japan Company Ltd. and Hewlett-Packard Japan Ltd. (now Agilent Technologies), our subsidiary, Cascade Microtech Japan, Inc. and its affiliates, have been granted a non-exclusive worldwide license to make, have made, use, lease, sell, or otherwise transfer certain products that make use of patented technology relating to electric circuit measurement apparatuses. In exchange for the rights granted under the license, we pay royalties to Micronics Japan Company Ltd. and Agilent Technologies based on the number of products sold or leased. Our license will expire upon the expiration of the patent covering the licensed technology, which will occur in June 2013. Seasonality In the past, our business has experienced seasonality. Typically, our revenue has been lower in our fiscal first quarter than in our fiscal fourth quarter preceding it. However, revenue in the first quarter of 2005 was greater than the revenue in the fourth quarter of 2004 as strength in the Asian market outweighed the seasonality factors. We also expect our revenue in the first quarter of 2006 to be greater than our revenue in the fourth quarter of 2005 due to delays in closing certain orders in the fourth quarter of 2005. In addition, as is typical in our industry, we recognize a large percentage of our quarterly revenue in the last month of the quarter. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had a total of 287 employees: 45 in engineering and research and development; 159 in manufacturing; and 83 in selling, general and administrative functions. Of these employees, 252 were located in the U.S., 17 were in Japan, 8 were in Great Britain, 7 were in Singapore, 1 was in Canada and 2 were in Taiwan. Many of our employees are highly skilled and our future performance depends largely on our ability to continue to attract, train and retain qualified technical, sales, service, marketing and managerial personnel. None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good. Environmental Matters As part of our manufacturing operations, we have handled and continue to handle materials that are considered hazardous or toxic under federal, state and local laws and regulations, and we are subject to environmental laws and regulations related to the use, storage, discharge, disposal and human exposure to such materials. We believe we are in material compliance with the environmental laws and regulations applicable to the conduct of our business and operations. However, there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. The risk of a release of hazardous or toxic materials cannot be completely eliminated, and if such a release occurs, we could be held financially responsible for the cleanup or other consequences of the release. We are not aware of any releases at any of our facilities that could reasonably be expected to result in any material liabilities to us. In addition, the European Parliament has finalized the Restriction on Use of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS Directive, which restricts the sale of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous substances, including lead, which is currently used in some of the products we manufacture. We are working to modify our manufacturing processes to eliminate lead from products we put on the market by July 1, 2006 as required by the RoHS Directive. This may require us to make additional capital expenditures. In addition the costs associated with compliance may negatively impact our earning and competitive position. We are also working with our suppliers to redesign or reformulate their components containing lead to reduce or eliminate lead in our products. 10 Further, we are working with selected customers who specify and/or provide specific components used in some of our products to choose components that comply with the RoHS Directive. Based upon current information available to us, we believe that we will be able to comply with RoHS Directive within the applicable time period. However, if we do not comply with this Directive, we may suffer a loss of revenue, be unable to sell in certain markets or countries and suffer competitive disadvantage. The European Parliament has also recently finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE Directive, which makes producers of electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. As a producer of industrial electronic equipment, we may incur financial responsibility for the collection, recycling, treatment or disposal of products covered under the WEEE Directive. Our products have been labeled in accordance with the WEEE Directive since before August 13, 2005, the WEEE implementation date. We determined the products we presently produce are exempt because they either meet the definition of “Large Scale Industrial Equipment,” or are passive or non-electrical accessories that do not function on their own. We have not incurred any costs or fees or penalties associated with non-compliance through March 3, 2006. Therefore, we have some confidence that we are interpreting the rules correctly. However, because the EU member states have not fully implemented the WEEE Directive, the nature and extent of the costs to comply and fees or penalties associated with non-compliance are still unknown at this time. Costs to comply with the WEEE Directive and similar future legislation, if applicable, may also include legal and regulatory costs and insurance costs. We may also be required to take reserves for costs associated with compliance with these regulations. We are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups and governmental priorities concerning environmental laws and regulations. We may be required to incur substantial costs to comply with current or future environmental laws or regulations, and our operations, business or financial condition could be adversely affected by such requirements. Backlog Our backlog consists of purchase orders we have received for products and services with scheduled delivery dates that we expect to ship and deliver or perform within the next 12 months. At December 31, 2005 our backlog was $10.7 million compared with $12.1 million at December 31, 2004. We generally ship our products within two months of receipt of a customer’s purchase order. Accordingly, we expect to deliver nearly all of our December 31, 2005 backlog in 2006. Customers may cancel or delay delivery on previously placed orders, although our standard terms and conditions include penalties for cancellations made close to the scheduled delivery date. As a result, the timing of the receipt of orders or the shipment of products could have a significant impact on our backlog at any date. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from orders received and products shipped within a quarter. For this and other reasons, the amount of backlog at any date is not necessarily indicative of revenue in future periods. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future, which could cause us to miss analyst expectations about these results and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate. As a result, we believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that are likely to cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate include: • our geographic sales mix, product sales mix and average selling prices; • timing, cancellation or delay of customer orders; • seasonality, which has caused our first quarter revenue typically to decline compared to our fourth quarter revenue of the previous year; 11 • customer demand, which is influenced, in part, by conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industry, demand for products that use semiconductors and market acceptance of our products and those of our customers; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • competition, such as competitive pressures on the price, performance and reliability of our products, the introduction or announcement of new products by us or our competitors and our competitors’ intellectual property rights, which could prevent us from introducing products that compete effectively with their products; • our production capacity and availability and cost of materials, components and subassemblies; • our ability to deliver reliable products in a timely manner, including as a result of fluctuations in yield on some of our product lines; • our customers’ decisions regarding the level and timing of research and development spending; • our product development costs, including research and development and sales and marketing expenses associated with new products or product enhancements and the costs of transitioning to new or enhanced products; and • economic conditions in the United States and the worldwide markets we serve. For example, a large majority of our revenue in the last five years was derived from the research and development equipment spending of companies in the semiconductor industry or, to a much lesser extent, various research organizations, including universities, that conduct research that benefits the semiconductor industry. Our customers’ spending on research and development is roughly proportional to the customers’ overall revenues. Historically, semiconductor industry revenues have been highly cyclical. According to industry data, the semiconductor industry has experienced four significant cyclical downturns in the 22 years from 1983 through 2005. For example, our revenue increased approximately 37% from 1999 to 2000. In contrast our revenue decreased approximately 29% from 2001 to 2002 and increased approximately 27% and 14% from 2003 to 2004 and 2004 to 2005, respectively. Given this history, there is no reason to expect that our customers’ business and, therefore, their demand for our products, will be less cyclical in the future. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry affects our financial results, and, as a result, we may experience reduced sales or operating losses in a semiconductor industry downturn. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical with recurring periods of wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, periods of oversupply, maturing product and technology cycles, excess inventories and declines in general economic conditions. Our customers’ purchase behavior in response to these cycles has been generally unpredictable. In the past, our operating results have been adversely affected by the cyclical downturns in the semiconductor industry. Our business is heavily dependent on the level of research and development spending of our customers, the volume of semiconductor production by semiconductor manufacturers, the development of new semiconductors and semiconductor designs and the overall financial strength of our customers, which, in turn, depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and the products incorporating them. Semiconductor manufacturers in particular are known to sharply curtail their capital expenditures when confronted with an industry downturn, such as the downturns experienced from 1996 through 1998 and from 2001 through the first six months of 2003. We expect that the markets for future generations of semiconductors will also be subject to similar fluctuations. Furthermore, some segments of the semiconductor industry may experience greater fluctuations than others. We may not achieve or maintain our current or prior levels of revenue growth. Any factor adversely affecting the semiconductor industry in general, or the particular 12 segments, regions or major customers of the industry that our products target, will adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and could cause us to experience operating losses. As is the case with other companies in our industry, many of our customers defer purchasing decisions until late each quarter. As a result, we are significantly dependent upon the sale of our products in the third month of each quarter, and, if we do not generate enough revenue in the third month of each quarter to meet the earnings expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline. As is the case with other companies in our industry, we have historically recognized a substantial portion of our revenue in the last month of each quarter because many of our customers defer purchasing decisions until late each quarter. Historically, we have often recognized more than 50% of our quarterly revenue in the third month of the quarter. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. As a result, our ability to meet the earnings expectations of analysts depends on our ability to not only generate customer orders in the third month of each quarter but also satisfy each of the various accounting requirements for recognizing the revenue generated by such sales prior to the end of the quarter. Moreover, our engineering probe stations typically range in price from $30,000 to $350,000 for a single unit, so a delay in the shipment of even one engineering probe station and the corresponding delay in recognition of revenue for the sale of probe stations, can have a very large impact on our quarterly results. If we are unable to generate a sufficient amount of sales during the last month of the quarter or if we are unable to recognize the revenue generated by sales made during this period, we could miss the earnings expectations of analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Because we generally do not have a sufficient backlog of unfilled orders to meet our quarterly revenue targets, revenue in any quarter is substantially dependent upon customer orders received and fulfilled in that quarter. Our revenue is difficult to forecast because we generally do not have a sufficient backlog of unfilled orders for our engineering probe stations, analytical probes and production probe cards to meet our quarterly revenue targets at the beginning of a quarter. Historically, a significant portion of our revenue in any quarter depends upon customer orders that we receive and fulfill in that quarter. Furthermore, because our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenue and, to a large extent, are fixed in the short term, we might be unable to adjust spending in time to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenue in relation to our expectations and the expectations of analysts or investors could hurt our operating results and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005, several large orders related to sales of our S300 systems were delayed, which resulted in a decline in our fourth quarter 2005 revenue below our expectations and a consequent decline in our operating profit for the quarter. We continue to devote significant effort and resources to the growth and development of our Pyramid Probe products, which has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our operating margins. Our future growth depends, in part, on continued market adoption of, and growing demand for, our production probe cards. Large-scale market adoption of these products will depend on our ability to demonstrate the superior reliability and cost effectiveness of these products to potential customers and on the continued growth of the market for high-speed or complex chips. Production customers are generally very risk-averse when adopting new technologies that could affect their production output, especially a sole source supplier such as we are in the case of Pyramid Probes. We have devoted significant resources to the development and growth of these products in the past, and expect to devote significantly more investment in the form of people and equipment during 2006. If our production probe cards are not adopted in the market at a rate that is sufficient to offset the costs and resources that we devote to the development and promotion of these products, the future growth of our overall business and our operating margins would be adversely affected. 13 If we do not keep pace with technological developments in the semiconductor industry, especially the trend toward faster, smaller and lower cost chips, our revenue and operating results could suffer as potential customers decide to adopt our competitors’ products. We must continue to invest in research and development and certain manufacturing capabilities to improve our competitive position and to meet the testing needs of our customers. Our future growth depends, in significant part, on our ability to work effectively with and anticipate the testing needs of our customers and on our ability to develop and support new products and product enhancements to meet these needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our customers’ testing needs are becoming more challenging as the semiconductor industry continues to experience rapid technological change driven by the demand for complex chips that have smaller element sizes and at the same time are increasing in speed and functionality and becoming less expensive to produce. Our customers expect that they will be able to integrate our wafer probing products into their design and production processes as soon as they are deployed. Therefore, to meet these expectations and remain competitive, we must continually design, develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and product enhancements with improved features. Successful product development and introduction on a timely basis require that we: • design innovative and performance-enhancing features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • identify emerging technological trends in our target markets, including new engineering and production test strategies; • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and • adjust to changing market conditions quickly and cost-effectively. If we are unable to timely predict industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products on a timely basis, we might lose customers or market share, and our operating results could suffer. We cannot assure you that we will successfully develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, that any product enhancement or new product developed by us will gain market acceptance or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or uncompetitive. There is no assurance that products recently introduced for micro-fluidics research for the life sciences industry will generate revenues and profits. We have recently introduced new products for micro-fluidics research for the life sciences industry. To date there has been no significant revenue from these products and there can be no assurance that significant revenues will be achieved by this product line in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that we shall bring new products for this industry to market in a timely and cost-effective manner and that any new product will gain market acceptance. Intense competition in the semiconductor wafer probing business may reduce demand for our products and reduce our sales. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to continue in the future. We believe that our principal competitors are the major providers of probe stations, production probe cards and analytical probes. Our primary competitor in the probe station market is Suss MicroTec AG (Karl Suss), but we also compete with Bekutasemikon, K.K., Lucas/Signatone Corporation, The Micromanipulator Company Inc., and Wentworth Laboratories Inc., among others. Our Pyramid Probe cards compete with product offerings of other probe card vendors including Feinmetall GmbH, FormFactor Inc., GGB Industries Inc., Japan Electronic Materials Corporation, Mesatronics S.A., Micronics Japan Company, Ltd., MicroProbe, Inc., Micro Square Technology Inc., PHICOM Corporation, SV Probe, Technoprobe S.r.l., Tokyo Cathode Laboratory Company, Ltd., Wentworth Laboratories Inc. and others. At least three probe card vendors, FormFactor Inc., Mesatronics S.A. and PHICOM Corporation, are also offering probe cards built using types of lithographic patterning. Our primary competitor in the analytical probe market is GGB Industries. These competitors or other potential competitors may have developed or may be developing 14 technology of which we are unaware that may render our products uncompetitive. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products or to deliver competitive products at lower prices. We cannot assure you that we will maintain our current competitive position or that our production probe cards will achieve widespread acceptance in the market. Finally, increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced sales, reduced margins or failure to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance for our products, any of which could prevent us from growing our business. We obtain some of the materials, components and subassemblies used in our products from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. If these suppliers are unable to provide us with these materials, components or subassemblies in adequate quantities and on a timely basis, we may be unable to manufacture our products or meet our customers’ needs. We obtain some of the materials, components and subassemblies used in our products from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Certain of our product purchases for 2005 were from sole source suppliers. Although we were not forced to delay shipment of any product due to delays in 2005 related to such suppliers, from time to time, we may experience difficulties in obtaining these materials, components and subassemblies from some suppliers, especially during periods of high demand for semiconductor capital equipment. The manufacture of some of the materials, components and subassemblies that we use in our products, such as thermal chucks and microscopes, is a complex process, and in the event that we cannot obtain an adequate supply of these components, it would be difficult and time-consuming to identify and qualify new suppliers. If some of the materials used in our lithographic probe manufacturing process become unavailable, it would be costly and time consuming to identify and qualify new suppliers. Moreover, many of these suppliers are small companies that may be more susceptible to downturns in general economic conditions, thereby increasing the risks of product and shipment delays, increased costs or loss of suppliers. Finally, we do not have written agreements with any of these suppliers to guarantee the supply of these products. The delay in shipments from, or complete loss of, any one of these suppliers could prevent us from producing and shipping our products, resulting in delayed or lost orders for our products and damage to our customer relationships, which would harm our results of operations. Furthermore, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these materials, components or subassemblies could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We depend upon the sale of our engineering probe stations for a significant portion of our revenue, and a decline in demand for our engineering probe stations would have a more significant impact on our revenue than a downturn in demand for our analytical probes or production probe cards. Historically, we have derived a large majority of our revenue from the sale of our engineering probe stations. We anticipate that sales of our engineering probe stations will continue to represent a large majority of our revenue for the next few years. Our business depends in large part upon continued demand in current markets for, and adoption in new markets of, current and future generations of our engineering probe stations. In addition, while our analytical probes are sometimes sold to serve as components of test equipment manufactured by third parties, they are most often sold for use with our engineering probe stations. Continued market adoption depends upon our ability to increase customer awareness of the benefits of our engineering probe stations and to prove their reliability and cost effectiveness. We may be unable to sell our engineering probe stations to existing and potential customers if those customers change their chip test strategies, change their capital equipment buying strategies or chose not to change or upgrade their existing test equipment. We might not be able to sustain or increase our revenue from sales of our engineering probe stations, particularly if conditions in the semiconductor market deteriorate or if the market enters into another downturn. 15 In addition, sales of our engineering probe stations depend in part upon the level of research and development spending in the semiconductor industry. Historically, the level of research and development spending in the semiconductor industry has followed the overall cycles of the semiconductor industry but at a reduced rate of growth or decline, as the case may be. If our customers reduce their research and development spending or if the overall level of research and development spending in the semiconductor industry does not continue to follow the growth rate of the overall semiconductor industry, consistent with historical patterns, our revenue would decline, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. We believe that we currently have a significant market share in the engineering probe station market. As a result, it may be difficult for us to both maintain our current level of market share and capture opportunities for growing our market share, especially if the market for engineering probe stations does not continue to grow as we expect. If the market for engineering probe stations does not continue to grow, our business may not expand, even if we are successful in increasing our market share. We may make future acquisitions, which may be costly, difficult to integrate with our operations, divert management resources and dilute shareholder value. As part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, products or technologies that complement our current product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities, expand our operations into new markets or offer other growth opportunities. If we fail to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies, we would not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. We may acquire companies, products or technologies in the future, which could pose risks to our operations including: • difficulties assimilating the acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products into our company; • diversion of management’s attention from our existing business; and • adverse effects on relationships with our existing suppliers, customers or partners. We face economic, political and other risks associated with our international sales and operations, which could materially harm our operating results. Since 1997, we have derived more than 50% of our annual revenue from sales outside North America, primarily in Japan, other Asian countries and Europe. No individual country within Asia, except Japan and Taiwan, and no individual country within Europe represented 10% or more of total revenue in 2005, 2004 or 2003. Geographic revenue was as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 United States $ 23,877 $ 24,762 $ 24,708 Japan 15,085 14,909 11,838 Taiwan 7,612 6,853 3,631 Other 27,063 17,891 10,379 $ 73,637 $ 64,415 $ 50,556 We expect international sales to continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. In the past, the economic climate in some foreign markets, particularly in Asia, has quickly and dramatically changed, resulting in a negative effect on our operating results. For example, during the Asian economic crisis that began in 1998, we saw a 34% decline in revenue in 1998 compared to 1997 from Asia not including Japan. We saw a 41% decrease in revenue from the same region in 2003 compared to 2001. 16 Currently, we maintain international offices in Europe and Asia, and we may establish new international offices in the future. If our gross margin from international operations does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining our international operations, our operating margins would be adversely affected. Additional risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas; • the possible lack of financial and political stability in foreign countries, preventing overseas sales growth; • changes in domestic or foreign law or policy resulting in the need to comply with potentially burdensome government controls, regulations, tariffs, embargoes or export license requirements; • longer payment cycles; • differing and more burdensome labor regulations and practices in Europe; • the aftermath of the war in Iraq or other armed conflicts in the Middle East; • the effects of sudden outbreaks of epidemics in Asia and other parts of the world; and • the effects of terrorist attacks in the United States and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide. The different cultures in countries where we do business often challenge us to meet or manage local expectations about how employees are hired, managed, compensated, or terminated. For example, most employees in Japan expect an organization wherein a manager’s direct reports are younger than the manager. In Europe, governments force the severance costs of a reduction in force action to be generally much higher than in the U.S. Finally, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between the dollar and the currencies of countries in which we do business. While most of our international sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars, our international operating expenses have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies could increase the relative costs of our overseas operations, which could reduce our operating margins. Significant unfavorable fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could cause us to lower our prices and thus reduce our profitability. In addition, fluctuations in exchange rates could cause customers to delay or cancel orders because of the increased cost of our products relative to those of our competitors who manufacture in other countries. Other income (expense), net in 2005, 2004 and 2003 includes the following currency related gains and losses (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Gains related to foreign currency hedges $ 151,000 $ 74,000 $ 49,000 Remeasurement related foreign currency gains (losses) (34,000 ) 132,000 318,000 $ 117,000 $ 206,000 $ 367,000 We rely on independent manufacturers’ representatives and distributors for a significant portion of our revenue, and a disruption in our relationship with our manufacturers’ representatives or distributors would have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Approximately 72% of our revenue for 2005 was generated through independent manufacturers’ representatives and distributors, whose activities are not within our direct control. In addition, in some locations, our manufacturers’ representatives and distributors provide field service to our customers. A reduction in the sales efforts or financial viability of these manufacturers’ representatives or distributors, or a termination of our relationship with these representatives or distributors, would have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial results and ability to support our customers. Our manufacturers representatives and distributors are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time with limited or no prior notice. If we make the business decision to terminate or modify our relationships with one or more of our independent manufacturers’ representatives, or if a manufacturers’ representative decides to disengage from us, 17 and we do not effectively and efficiently manage such a change, we could lose sales to existing customers and fail to obtain new customers. Establishing alternative sales channels would consume substantial time and resources, decrease our revenue and increase our expenses. If semiconductor manufacturers do not convert to 300mm wafers, or do not convert at the rate we anticipate, our growth and profitability could be harmed. The 2001 to 2003 downturn in the semiconductor industry caused various chip manufacturers to readdress their respective strategies for converting existing 200mm wafer fabrication facilities to 300mm wafer fabrication or for building new 300mm wafer fabrication facilities. Some manufacturers, including some of our customers such as Texas Instruments, Motorola and ST Microelectronics delayed, cancelled or postponed previously announced plans to convert to 300mm wafer fabrication. While we have since then seen an increase in these conversion efforts, these delays have impacted demand for our 300mm probe stations. We believe that the decision to convert to a 300mm wafer fabrication facility is made by each manufacturer based upon both internal and external factors, such as: • current and projected prices for semiconductors; • projected price erosion for the manufacturer’s particular semiconductors; • supply and demand levels for semiconductors; • overall manufacturing capacity within the manufacturer’s target market(s); • the availability of funds to the manufacturer; • the technology roadmap of the manufacturer; and • the price and availability of equipment needed within the 300mm fabrication facility. One or more of these internal and external factors, as well as other factors, including factors that a manufacturer may choose not to disclose publicly, could impact the decision to maintain a 300mm conversion schedule, to delay the conversion schedule for a period of time or to cancel the conversion. We have invested significant resources to develop technology that addresses the market for 300mm wafers. Beginning in 2003 and continuing into early 2005, we saw an acceleration in the transition from 200mm to 300mm technology but since then the rate of acceleration has declined. If manufacturers delay or discontinue the transition to 300mm wafers, or make the transition more slowly than we currently expect, our growth and profitability could be affected. Failure to retain key managerial, technical, and sales and marketing personnel or to attract new key personnel could harm our business. Our success depends on the continued services of our executive officers and other key management, technical, and sales and marketing personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Currently, our key personnel include Eric Strid, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Bruce McFadden, our Vice President and General Manager, Pyramid Probe Division, Steven Sipowicz, our Chief Financial Officer, John Pence, our Vice President and General Manager, Engineering Products Division and K. Reed Gleason, our Vice President of Advanced Technology. Our executive officers and other key employees are able to exercise stock options and sell the underlying stock, which may reduce their incentive to continue their employment with us. The loss of key personnel could limit our ability to develop new products and adapt existing products to our customers’ evolving requirements and may result in lost sales and a diversion of management resources. Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage and intellectual property is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key personnel. We do not have employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of our employees except for an employment agreement with our Chief Financial Officer. To support our future growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, and sales and marketing employees. Competition for such personnel in our industry is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. 18 Our customers’ evaluation processes can lead to lengthy sales cycles, during which we may incur significant costs that may not result in sales. Our customers typically expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products prior to placing an order, particularly for orders of engineering probe stations and production probe cards. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from three to 12 months and sometimes longer. During the period in which our customers are evaluating our products, we incur substantial sales, marketing, research and development expenses and expend significant management efforts. After completing this evaluation process, a potential customer may elect not to purchase our products. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to unplanned processing and other delays, particularly with respect to larger customers for which our products represent a very small percentage of their overall purchase activity. Additional factors, some of which are partially or completely outside our control, that affect the length of time it takes us to complete a sale, include: • the efforts of our sales force; • the history of previous sales to the customer; • the complexity of the customer’s engineering or production processes; • the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer; and • the capital expenditure budgets of the customer. The lengthy and unpredictable nature of our sales cycle could result in fluctuations in our operating results, which could fall below the expectations of analysts and investors for any particular period of time, and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. If our products contain defects, our reputation would be damaged, and we could lose customers and revenue and incur warranty expenses. The complexity and ongoing development of our products, as well as the inclusion in our products of components purchased from third parties, could lead to design, manufacturing or performance problems. Our products may contain defects which could cause our sales to decline, our reputation to be significantly damaged and our customers to be reluctant to buy our products, any or all of which could result in a decline in revenue, an increase in product returns, higher field service costs, the loss of existing customers or the failure to attract new customers. Our warranty expense totaled $624,000, $639,000 and $679,000, for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Although we are not currently seeking reimbursement from any vendors related to our warranty expense, we have in the past, and may again in the future, seek reimbursement from certain vendors. To the extent that we experience additional failures of purchased components that increase our warranty expenses that are not reimbursed by the vendor, our results of operations will be adversely affected. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology and rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which would weaken our competitive position and could reduce our sales. Our success and competitive position depend in significant part on the technically innovative features of our products, and, if we fail to protect our proprietary rights, our competitors might gain access to our technology. Although we rely in part on patent, trade secret and trademark laws to protect the proprietary technology used in our products, our patents may be challenged by third parties and held invalid, and any of our pending patent applications may not be approved. Additionally, we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we may not be able to prevent the misappropriation and unauthorized use of our technologies. Furthermore, our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies, may not provide us with competitive advantages and may be circumvented by the designs of third parties. 19 Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Others may independently develop or otherwise acquire similar or competing technologies or methods or design around our patents. Additionally, some of our proprietary technology cannot be effectively protected by patents. In these cases, we rely on trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our confidential and proprietary information, processes and technology. However, our confidential and proprietary information, processes and technology could be independently developed by, or otherwise become known to, third parties, which would weaken our competitive position and might reduce our sales. Since 1997, we have derived more than 50% of our annual revenue from products sold to customers outside of North America. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in such countries. The manner in which we protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate in some foreign countries. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property in foreign countries would make it easier for competitors to copy or circumvent our product designs and sell competing products in those countries, which could adversely affect our revenue and cause us to lose customers. Intellectual property infringement claims by or against us may result in litigation, the cost of which could be substantial and could prevent us from selling our products. The semiconductor industry is characterized by uncertain and conflicting intellectual property claims, frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights and vigorous protection and pursuit of these rights. Questions of infringement in the semiconductor industry involve highly technical and subjective analyses. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by third parties, and we may not prevail in any litigation. Any such litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, might be costly, could harm our reputation, could cause product shipment delays and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our normal business operations. We are not currently involved in any such litigation. However, an adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation might result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, require us to seek licenses from third parties, prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or require us to discontinue the use of certain technology in our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. License agreements, if required, might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our growth could strain our personnel and infrastructure resources, and, if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Our growth has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our management, operational, financial and technical resources and on our internal control, management information and reporting systems. Our success will depend, in part, upon the ability of our senior management to manage this growth effectively. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to: • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures; • manage the growth of different product lines with different cost structures; and • recruit, train, manage and motivate our employees to support our expanded operations. 20 Our success depends on our continued investment in research and development, the level and effectiveness of which could reduce our profitability. We will continue to make investments in research and development to sustain and improve our competitive position and meet our customers’ needs. These investments currently include refining Pyramid Probe fabrication processes, developing higher performance Pyramid Probe cards and enhancing engineering probe stations for both 300mm and sub-300mm wafers. To maintain our competitive position, we may need to increase our research and development investment, which could reduce our profitability. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will achieve a return on these investments, nor can we assure you that these investments will improve our competitive position and meet our customers’ needs. We manufacture nearly all of our products at our Oregon facilities, and any disruption in the operations of these facilities could harm our business. We manufacture almost all of our products in our facilities located in Beaverton, Oregon. Our manufacturing processes are complex and require sophisticated and costly equipment and specially designed facilities. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties or destruction of or damage to the facilities as a result of an earthquake, fire or any other reason, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A disruption in our strategic relationship with Agilent Technologies could have a negative effect on our ability to market our products and could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. We have a longstanding relationship with Agilent Technologies in which we jointly market selected probing solutions, comprised of products from both companies. Consequently, our relationship with Agilent is an important factor in our ability to market our products. Our joint marketing relationship with Agilent is not governed by a contract. Therefore, Agilent could terminate its relationship with us or announce a strategic relationship with one of our competitors at any time. While we do not track the portion of our revenue that is attributable to our joint marketing relationship with Agilent, we believe that a termination of our relationship with Agilent could harm our ability to market our products and could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Furthermore, in those situations in which a customer purchases our products alongside Agilent’s products, we depend on Agilent’s ability to timely deliver its products to complete the installation of our product. To the extent that there is a delay in the shipment of Agilent’s products, the timing of our revenue could be adversely affected, which could cause us to miss the earnings expectations of analysts and investors and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. We may fail to comply with environmental regulations, which could result in significant costs and harm our business. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials used in our thin-film fabrication facility and other manufacturing operations. The risk of a release of hazardous or toxic materials cannot be completely eliminated, and if such a release occurs, we could be held financially responsible for the cleanup or other consequences of the release. We are not aware of any releases at any of our facilities that could reasonably be expected to result in any material liabilities to us. Our past, present or future failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in enforcement actions, substantial liabilities and suspension of production or cessation of operations in extreme situations. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or build new facilities or require us to acquire additional expensive equipment, modify our manufacturing processes, or incur other substantial expenses which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. For example, the European 21 Parliament has finalized the Restriction on Use of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS Directive, which restricts the sale of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous substances, including lead, which is currently used in some of the products we manufacture. We are working to modify our manufacturing processes to eliminate lead from products we put on the market by July 1, 2006 as required by the RoHS Directive. We are working with our suppliers to redesign or reformulate their components containing lead to reduce or eliminate lead in our products. Further, we are working with selected customers who specify and/or provide specific components used in some of our products to choose components that comply with the RoHS Directive. For some of our products, substitutions of lead-free components or processes may be difficult or costly, or redesign efforts could result in production delays. The European Parliament has also recently finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE Directive, which makes producers of electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. As a producer of industrial electronic equipment, we may incur financial responsibility for the collection, recycling, treatment or disposal of products covered under the WEEE Directive. These environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time, imposing even greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Product liability claims may be asserted against us, resulting in costly litigation for which we may not have sufficient liability insurance. Our customers may use our products in the testing of high reliability semiconductors for critical applications such as telecommunications infrastructure, military, medical and aerospace equipment. Defects or other problems with the performance of our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers. In addition, some of our engineering probe stations that use high powered lasers or operate at high voltage or extreme temperatures may cause death or injury to persons utilizing such equipment due to undetected design or manufacturing defects or due to improper use or maintenance by our customers. Although our product invoices and sales contracts generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these provisions. Product liability litigation against us, even if it were unsuccessful, could be time consuming and costly to defend. Additionally, although we carry product liability insurance, in some circumstances it may not cover certain claims or be adequate to cover all claims. We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the termination of any of these relationships would adversely affect our business. Our top four customers accounted for 16% and 18% of our revenue in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our customers are not obligated by long-term contracts to purchase our products and may discontinue purchasing our products at any time. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated and a small number of semiconductor manufacturers generally account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor test equipment, including our products. Consequently, our business and operating results would be materially, adversely affected by the loss of any of our significant customers. In addition, our ability to increase our revenue will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, particularly customers of our production probe cards. Obtaining orders from new customers is difficult because semiconductor manufacturers typically select one vendor’s products for testing a particular new generation of chips. Once a manufacturer has selected a vendor, that manufacturer is more likely to continue to purchase products from that vendor for that generation of chips, as well as subsequent generations of chips. We therefore place great emphasis on relationships with our current customers because these customers are difficult to replace. In addition, we focus on leveraging our relationships with current customers to sell into additional engineering labs 22 and production lines in the same company and similar groups in other companies. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our existing significant customers or to obtain new customers that adopt and implement our products and technology, we will not be able to meet our revenue and growth targets, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our employment costs in the short-term are, to a large extent, fixed, and therefore, any shortfall in sales would harm our operating results. Our operating expense levels are based, in significant part, on our headcount. For a variety of reasons, particularly the high cost and disruption of layoffs, the costs of recruiting and training new personnel and product delivery and service commitments to our customers, our headcount in the short-term is, to a large extent, fixed. Accordingly, we may be unable to reduce employment costs in a timely manner to compensate for any shortfall in our sales or gross margins, which could materially harm our operating results. The additional costs that we incur as a result of being a public company will affect our operating results. We incurred incremental costs as a public company for additional expenses such as increased auditing and legal fees and director and officer liability insurance, which increased our operating expenses and make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by offsetting expense reductions in the short-term. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules and regulations subsequently enacted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the Nasdaq National Market have imposed new corporate governance requirements for listed companies. We expect these rules to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors and qualified executive officers. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, including pending tax law changes, such as the benefit from export sales and the research and development credit by material audit assessments. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay could be subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. Our officers and directors and their affiliates will control the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 32% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Consequently, these shareholders will have substantial influence over the election of our directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as a merger or a sale of our company or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of voting power and control could have a significant effect in delaying, deferring or preventing an action that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders and be disadvantageous to our shareholders with interests different from those of our officers, directors and affiliates. These shareholders will also have significant control over our business, policies and affairs. 23 Additionally, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling shareholders. The anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents and Oregon law may inhibit a takeover or change in our control that shareholders may consider beneficial. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Oregon law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, making a merger or acquisition of us less desirable to a potential acquirer or preventing a change in our management, even if the shareholders consider the merger or acquisition favorable or if doing so would benefit our shareholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws: • We have a staggered board of directors, which will make it more difficult for a group of shareholders to quickly change the composition of our board. • Our board of directors is authorized, without prior shareholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us or change our control, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock. • Members of our board of directors can only be removed for cause. • The board of directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining shareholder approval. • Shareholders are required to provide advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at a shareholder meeting. • Any action that is taken by written consent of shareholders must be unanimous. We are also subject to the provisions of the Oregon Control Share Act and the Oregon Business Combination Act, each of which may have certain anti-takeover effects. If our stock price is volatile, securities class action litigation may be brought against us, which could result in substantial costs. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities, and newly public companies tend to experience more volatility in their stock price. We may be the target of such litigation in the future. Securities litigation may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 