Item 1A Risk Factors RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and in any other documents to which we refer you in this Form 10-K, before purchasing our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Our Inability to Accurately Predict Orders and Shipments May Affect Our Revenue, Expenses and Earnings per Share. We have not been able in the past to consistently predict when our customers will place orders and request shipments so that we cannot always accurately plan our manufacturing requirements. As a result, if orders and shipments differ from what we predict, we may incur additional expenses and build excess inventory, which may require additional reserves and allowances. Any significant change in our customers’ purchasing patterns could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and reported earnings per share for a particular quarter. Our Operating Results in Each Quarter May Be Affected by Special Conditions, Such As Seasonality, Late Quarter Purchases, Weather, and Other Potential Issues. Due in part to the buying patterns of our customers, a significant portion of our quarterly revenues occurs from orders received and immediately shipped to customers in the last few weeks and days of each quarter, although our operating expenses tend to remain fairly predictable. Engineering and construction purchases tend to occur in early spring, and governmental agencies tend to utilize funds available at the end of the government’s fiscal year for additional purchases at the end of our third fiscal quarter in September of each year. Concentrations of orders sometimes also occur at the end of our other two fiscal quarters. Additionally, a majority of our sales force earns commissions on a quarterly basis which may cause concentrations of orders at the end of any fiscal quarter. If for any reason expected sales are deferred, orders are not received, or shipments are delayed a few days at the end of a quarter, our operating results and reported earnings per share for that quarter could be significantly impacted. We Are Dependent on a Specific Manufacturer and Assembler for Many of Our Products and on Specific Suppliers of Critical Parts for Our Products. We are substantially dependent upon Solectron Corporation in California, China and Mexico as our preferred manufacturing partner for many of our GPS products previously manufactured out of our Sunnyvale facilities. Under the agreement with Solectron, we provide to Solectron a twelve-month product forecast and place purchase orders with Solectron at least thirty calendar days in advance of the scheduled delivery of products to our customers depending on production lead time. Although purchase orders placed with Solectron are cancelable, the terms of the agreement would require us to purchase from Solectron all inventory not returnable or usable by other Solectron customers. Accordingly, if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from Solectron to meet customers’ delivery requirements or we may accumulate excess inventories, if such inventories are not usable by other Solectron customers. Our current contract with Solectron continues in effect until either party gives the other ninety days written notice. In addition, we rely on specific suppliers for a number of our critical components. We have experienced shortages of components in the past. Our current reliance on specific or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and reduced control over pricing. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components internally could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and could harm our reputation and brand, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Annual and Quarterly Performance May Fluctuate. Our operating results have fluctuated and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Results in any period could be affected by: Page 17 · changes in market demand, · competitive market conditions, · market acceptance of existing or new products, · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, · the cost and availability of components, · our ability to manufacture and ship products, · the mix of our customer base and sales channels, · the mix of products sold, · our ability to expand our sales and marketing organization effectively, · our ability to attract and retain key technical and managerial employees, · the timing of shipments of products under contracts and · general global economic conditions. In addition, demand for our products in any quarter or year may vary due to the seasonal buying patterns of our customers in the agricultural and engineering and construction industries. Due to the foregoing factors, our operating results in one or more future periods are expected to be subject to significant fluctuations. The price of our common stock could decline substantially in the event such fluctuations result in our financial performance being below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which are based primarily on historical models that are not necessarily accurate representations of the future. Our Gross Margin Is Subject to Fluctuation. Our gross margin is affected by a number of factors, including product mix, product pricing, cost of components, foreign currency exchange rates and manufacturing costs. For example, sales of Nikon-branded products generally have lower gross margins as compared to our GPS survey products. Absent other factors, a shift in sales towards Nikon-branded products would lead to a reduction in our overall gross margins. A decline in gross margin could potentially negatively impact our earnings per share. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to include an internal control report of management in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. For fiscal 2004 and 2005 we satisfied the requirements of Section 404, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. A system of controls, however well designed and operated, cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the system will be met. In addition, the design of a control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of the inherent limitations of control systems, there is only reasonable assurance that our controls will succeed in achieving their stated goals under all potential future conditions. We Are Dependent on New Products. Our future revenue stream depends to a large degree on our ability to bring new products to market on a timely basis. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance of such products. We may incur problems in the future in innovating and introducing new products. Our development stage products may not be successfully completed or, if developed, may not achieve significant customer acceptance. If we were unable to successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and we might not achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. A delay in new product introductions could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Page 18 We Are Dependent on Proprietary Technology. Our future success and competitive position is dependent upon our proprietary technology, and we rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. The patents owned or licensed by us may be invalidated, circumvented, and challenged. The rights granted under these patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Any of our pending or future patent applications may not be issued within the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents owned by us. In addition, effective copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. The steps taken by us to protect our technology might not prevent the misappropriation of such technology. The value of our products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields in which there are many current patent filings. We recognize that as new patents are issued or are brought to our attention by the holders of such patents, it may be necessary for us to withdraw products from the market, take a license from such patent holders, or redesign our products. We do not believe any of our products currently infringe patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, but we cannot be certain they do not do so. In addition, the legal costs and engineering time required to safeguard intellectual property or to defend against litigation could become a significant expense of operations. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or profitability. Our products may contain errors or defects, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased service costs, warranty claims and litigation. Our devices are complex and must meet stringent requirements. We warrant that our products will be free of defect for various periods of time, depending on the product. In addition, certain of our contracts include epidemic failure clauses. If invoked, these clauses may entitle the customer to return or obtain credits for products and inventory, or to cancel outstanding purchase orders even if the products themselves are not defective. We must develop our products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing market, and we have a history of frequently introducing new products. Products and services as sophisticated as ours could contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. In general, our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims and litigation which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Are Dependent on the Availability of Allocated Bands within the Radio Frequency Spectrum. Our GPS technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (“SPS”) provided by the US Government’s GPS. The GPS SPS operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (“ITU”), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Any ITU reallocation of radio frequency bands, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products. Many of our products use other radio frequency bands, together with the GPS signal, to provide enhanced GPS capabilities, such as real-time kinematic precision. The continuing availability of these non-GPS radio frequencies is essential to provide enhanced GPS products to our precision survey and construction machine controls markets. Any regulatory changes in spectrum allocation or in allowable operating conditions may cause a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, unwanted emissions from mobile satellite services and other equipment operating in adjacent frequency bands or in-band from licensed and unlicensed devices may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products. The FCC continually receives proposals for novel technologies and services, such as ultra-wideband technologies, which may seek to operate in, or across, the radio frequency bands currently used by the GPS SPS and other public safety services. Adverse decisions by the FCC that result in harmful interference to the delivery of the GPS SPS and other radio frequency spectrum also used in our products may result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Page 19 Many of Our Products Rely on the GPS Satellite System. The GPS satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites currently in orbit were originally designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However, of the current deployment of 29 satellites in place, some have already been in operation for 12 years. To repair damaged or malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites may impair the current utility of the GPS system and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. In 2004, a Presidential policy affirmed a 1996 Presidential Decision Directive that marked the first time in the evolution of GPS that access for civilian use free of direct user fees. In addition, Presidential policy has been complemented by corresponding legislation, that was signed into law. However, there can be no assurance that the US Government will remain committed to the operation and maintenance of GPS satellites over a long period, or that the policies of the US Government for the use of GPS without charge will remain unchanged. Because of ever-increasing commercial applications of GPS, other US Government agencies may become involved in the administration or the regulation of the use of GPS signals. Any of the foregoing factors could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select GPS-based systems instead of products based on competing technologies. Many of our products also use signals from systems that augment GPS, such as the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) and National Differential GPS System (NDGPS). Many of these augmentation systems are operated by the federal government and rely on continued funding and maintenance of these systems. In addition, some of our products also use satellite signals from the Russian Glonass System. Any curtailment of the operating capability of these systems could result in decreased user capability thereby impacting our markets. The European governments have begun development of an independent satellite navigation system, known as Galileo. We believe we will have access to the signal design to develop compatible receivers. However, if access to the signal structure is delayed it may have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may be Materially Affected by New Regulatory Requirements. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties, or the imposition of other liabilities. In particular, under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. In addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of many of our products. The European Union (“EU”) has adopted new directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU. One of these is the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the European Union after September 30, 2006. Similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States, China and Japan. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components which are more environmentally compatible and such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Business is Subject to Disruptions and Uncertainties Caused by War or Terrorism. Acts of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or Page 20 any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruption to our economy and create further uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We Are Exposed to Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates. A significant portion of our business is conducted outside the US, and as such, we face exposure to movements in non-US currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Fluctuation in currency impacts our operating results. Currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. The hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain non-functional currency assets and liabilities. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful resulting in an adverse impact on our net income. We Face Risks in Investing in and Integrating New Acquisitions. We have recently acquired several companies and may in the future acquire other companies. Acquisitions of companies, divisions of companies, or products entail numerous risks, including: · potential inability to successfully integrate acquired operations and products or to realize cost savings or other anticipated benefits from integration; · diversion of management’s attention; · loss of key employees of acquired operations; · the difficulty of assimilating geographically dispersed operations and personnel of the acquired companies; · the potential disruption of our ongoing business; · unanticipated expenses related to such integration; · the correct assessment of the relative percentages of in-process research and development expense that can be immediately written off as compared to the amount which must be amortized over the appropriate life of the asset; · the impairment of relationships with employees and customers of either an acquired company or our own business; · the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired business; and · inability to recover strategic investments in development stage entities. As a result of such acquisitions, we have significant assets that include goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The testing of these intangibles under established accounting guidelines for impairment requires significant use of judgment and assumptions. Changes in business conditions could require adjustments to the valuation of these assets. In addition, losses incurred by a company in which we have an investment may have a direct impact on our financial statements or could result in our having to write-down the value of such investment. Any such problems in integration or adjustments to the value of the assets acquired could harm our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and compliance with debt covenants. We May Not Be Able to Enter Into or Maintain Important Alliances. We believe that in certain business opportunities our success will depend on our ability to form and maintain alliances with industry participants, such as Caterpillar, Nikon, and CNH Global. Our failure to form and maintain such alliances, or the pre-emption of such alliances by actions of other competitors or us, will adversely affect our ability to penetrate emerging markets. No assurances can be given that we will not experience problems from current or future alliances or that we will realize value from any such strategic alliances. Page 21 We Face Competition in Our Markets. Our markets are highly competitive and we expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. Our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors including the price, quality and performance of our products, the level of customer service, the development of new technology and our ability to participate in emerging markets. Within each of our markets, we encounter direct competition from other GPS, optical and laser suppliers and competition may intensify from various larger US and non-US competitors and new market entrants, some of which may be our current customers. The competition in the future may, in some cases, result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the future against existing and additional competitors will depend largely on our ability to execute our strategy to provide systems and products with significantly differentiated features compared to currently available products. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully, and our products may not be competitive with other technologies or products that may be developed by our competitors, many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. We Must Carefully Manage Our Future Growth. Growth in our sales or continued expansion in the scope of our operations could strain our current management, financial, manufacturing and other resources, and may require us to implement and improve a variety of operating, financial and other systems, procedures, and controls. We have recently implemented a new enterprise resource planning software system and we may experience in our financial and order management processing as a result of new procedures. Problems associated with any improvement or expansion of these systems, procedures or controls may adversely affect our operations and these systems, procedures or controls may not be designed, implemented or improved in a cost-effective and timely manner. Any failure to implement, improve and expand such systems, procedures, and controls in a timely and efficient manner could harm our growth strategy and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to achieve our business objectives. We Are Dependent on Retaining and Attracting Highly Skilled Development and Managerial Personnel. Our ability to maintain our competitive technological position will depend, in a large part, on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified development and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified employees in our industry and locations is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, motivate, and retain enough qualified employees necessary for the future continued development of our business and products. We Are Subject to the Impact of Governmental and Other Similar Certifications. We market certain products that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold. For example, CE certification for radiated emissions is required for most GPS receiver and data communications products sold in the European Union. An inability to obtain such certifications in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Also, some of our products that use integrated radio communication technology require an end user to obtain licensing from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for frequency-band usage. These are secondary licenses that are subject to certain restrictions. An inability or delay in obtaining such certifications or changes to the rules by the FCC could adversely affect our ability to bring our products to market which could harm our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. We Are Subject to the Adverse Impact of Radio Frequency Congestion. We have certain products, such as GPS RTK systems, and surveying and mapping systems that use integrated radio communication technology requiring access to available radio frequencies allocated by the FCC (or the NTIA in the case of federal government users of this equipment) for which the end user is required to obtain a license in order to operate their equipment. In addition, access to these frequencies by state agencies is under management by state radio communications coordinators. Some bands are experiencing congestion that excludes their availability for access by state agencies in some states. To reduce congestion, the FCC announced that it will require migration of radio technology from wideband to narrowband operations in these bands. The rules require migration of users to narrowband channels by 2011. In the meantime congestion could cause FCC coordinators to restrict or refuse licenses. An inability to obtain access to these radio frequencies by end users could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Page 22 The Volatility of Our Stock Price Could Adversely Affect Your Investment in Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During fiscal 2005, our stock price ranged from $44.55 to $26.64. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: · announcements and rumors of developments related to our business or the industry in which we compete; · quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; · general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest rates; · announcements of technological innovations; · new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; · developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; · developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; and · any significant acts of terrorism against the United States. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of "high-tech" companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. Provisions in Our Charter Documents and Under California Law Could Prevent or Delay a Change of Control, which Could Reduce the Market Price of Our Common Stock. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, as amended and restated, our bylaws, as amended and restated, and the California General Corporation Law may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and could discourage a third party from acquiring, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control of us without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow the board of directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock. We have adopted a Preferred Shares Rights Agreement, commonly known as a "poison pill." The provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of the California General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None Page 23 Item 