Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and in any other documents to which we refer you in this Form 10-K, before purchasing our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Our Operating Results in Each Quarter May Be Affected by Special Conditions, such as Seasonality, Late Quarter Purchases, Weather, Economic Conditions, and Other Potential Issues Due in part to the buying patterns of our customers, a significant portion of our quarterly revenue occurs from orders received and immediately shipped to customers in the last few weeks and days of each quarter, although our operating expense tends to remain fairly predictable. Engineering and Construction purchases tend to occur in early spring, and governmental agencies tend to utilize funds available at the end of the government’s fiscal year for additional purchases at the end of our third fiscal quarter in September of each year. Concentrations of orders sometimes also occur at the end of our other two fiscal quarters. Additionally, a majority of our sales force earns commissions on a quarterly basis which may cause concentrations of orders at the end of any fiscal quarter. It could harm our operating results if for any reason expected sales are deferred, orders are not received, or shipments are delayed a few days at the end of a quarter. In addition, our operations and performance depend on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of business spending. In the recent past, uncertainties in the financial and credit markets have caused our customers to postpone purchases, and negative economic conditions may reduce future sales of, or demand for, our products and services. In addition, negative economic conditions may depress the tax revenues of federal, state and local government entities, which are significant purchasers of our products. With the exception primarily of our Mobile Solutions and Advanced Devices segments, our products are generally sold through a dealer channel, and our dealers depend on the availability of credit to finance purchases of our products for their inventory. Additionally, any disruption in our supply chain could impact our ability to meet our quarterly revenue. Customer collections are our primary source of cash. While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, negative economic conditions may result in increased collection times or greater write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow. Any write-off of goodwill could also negatively impact our financial results. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and operating results. Investing in and Integrating New Acquisitions Could be Costly and May Place a Significant Strain on Our Management Systems and Resources Which Could Negatively Impact Our Operating Results We have recently acquired a number of companies, and intend to continue to acquire other companies. Acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks, including: • potential inability to successfully integrate acquired operations and products or to realize cost savings or other anticipated benefits from integration, • loss of key employees of acquired operations, • the difficulty of assimilating geographically dispersed operations and personnel of the acquired companies, • the potential disruption of our ongoing business, • unanticipated expense related to acquisitions; including significant transactions costs which under the current accounting rules, are required to be expensed rather than capitalized, 19 Table of Contents • the correct assessment of the relative percentages of in-process research and development expense that can be immediately written off as compared to the amount which must be amortized over the appropriate life of the asset, • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers of either an acquired company or our own business, and • the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired business. As a result of such acquisitions, we have significant assets that include goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The testing of this goodwill and intangibles for impairment under established accounting guidelines requires significant use of judgment and assumptions. Changes in business conditions could require adjustments to the valuation of these assets. In addition, losses incurred by a company in which we have an investment may have a direct impact on our financial statements or could result in our having to write-down the value of such investment. Any such problems in integration or adjustments to the value of the assets acquired could harm our growth strategy, and could be costly and place a significant strain on our management systems and resources. Changes in Our Effective Tax Rate May Reduce Our Net Income in Future Periods A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed, • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, • increases in expense not deductible for tax purposes, including transaction costs and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions, • changes in available tax credits, • changes in share-based compensation, • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles, • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes, and • challenges to the transfer pricing policies related to our global supply chain management structure. We are currently in various stages of multiple year examinations by federal, state, and foreign taxing authorities, including a review of our 2010 tax year by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. Our effective tax rate is based on the geographic mix of earnings, statutory rates, inter-company transfer pricing, and enacted tax rules. If the IRS or the taxing authorities of any other jurisdiction were to successfully challenge a material tax position, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. We Are Dependent on the Availability of Allocated Bands within the Radio Frequency Spectrum Our GNSS technology is dependent on the use of satellite signals and on terrestrial communication bands. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used. In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations. 20 Table of Contents Any ITU or local reallocation of radio frequency bands, including frequency band segmentation and sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products and have significant negative impacts on our customers. For example, the FCC has been considering a proposal by a private party, LightSquared, to repurpose spectrum adjacent to the GPS bands for terrestrial broadband wireless operations throughout the United States. If the FCC were to permit implementation of LightSquared’s proposal, or similar proposals, terrestrial broadband wireless operations could create harmful interference to GPS receivers within range of such operations and impose costs to retrofit or replace affected receivers. Many of our products use other radio frequency bands, such as the public land mobile radio bands, together with the GNSS signal, to provide enhanced GNSS capabilities, such as real-time kinematics precision. The continuing availability of these non-GNSS radio frequencies is essential to provide enhanced GNSS products to our precision survey, agriculture, and construction machine controls markets. In addition, emissions from other services and equipment operating in adjacent frequency bands or in-band may impair the utility and reliability of our products. Any regulatory changes in spectrum allocation or in allowable operating conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have certain products, such as GNSS RTK systems, and surveying and mapping systems that use integrated radio communication technology requiring access to available radio frequencies allocated to local government. Some bands are experiencing congestion. In the U.S., the FCC announced that it will require migration of radio technology from wideband to narrowband operations in these bands. The rules require, by 2013, either migration of users to narrowband channels or utilization by users of technology that achieves equivalent efficiency to narrowband channels. Congestion in the channels could cause FCC coordinators to restrict or refuse licenses. An inability to obtain access to these radio frequencies by end users could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We Face Competition in Our Markets Which Could Decrease Our Revenue and Growth Rates or Impair Our Operating Results and Financial Condition Our markets are highly competitive and we expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. Our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors including the price, quality and performance of our products, the level of customer service, the development of new technology and our ability to participate in emerging markets. Within each of our markets, we encounter direct competition from other GNSS, software, optical and laser suppliers and competition may intensify from various larger U.S. and non-U.S. competitors and new market entrants, particularly from emerging markets such as China and India. The competition in the future may, in some cases, result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could decrease our revenue and growth rates or impair our operating results and financial condition. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the future against existing and additional competitors will depend largely on our ability to execute our strategy to provide systems and products with significantly differentiated features compared to currently available products. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully, and our products may not be competitive with other technologies or products that may be developed by our competitors, many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales, and other resources than we do. We Are Subject to the Impact of Governmental and Other Similar Certifications and Failure to Obtain the Requisite Certifications Could Harm Our Operating Results We market certain products that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold. For example, CE certification for radiated emissions is required for most GNSS receiver and data communications products sold in the European community. In the future, U.S. governmental authorities may propose GPS receiver testing and certification for compliance with published GPS signal interface specifications. An inability to obtain any such certifications in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our operating 21 Table of Contents results. Governmental authorities may also propose other forms of GPS receiver standards, which may limit design alternatives, hamper product innovation or impose additional costs. Some of our products that use integrated radio communication technology require product type certification and some products require an end user to obtain licensing from the FCC for frequency-band usage. These are secondary licenses that are subject to certain restrictions. An inability or delay in obtaining such certifications or changes to the rules by the FCC could adversely affect our ability to bring our products to market which could harm our customer relationships and therefore, our operating results. Any failure to obtain the requisite certifications could also harm our operating results. We Are Exposed to Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates and Although We Hedge Against These Risks, Our Attempts to Hedge Could be Unsuccessful and Expose Us to Losses A significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., and as such, we face exposure to movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Fluctuation in currency impacts our operating results. Currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. The hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain non-functional currency assets and liabilities. Our attempts to hedge against these risks could be unsuccessful and expose us to losses. Our Debt Could Adversely Affect Our Cash Flow and Prevent Us from Fulfilling Our Financial Obligations On May 6, 2011, we entered into a new credit agreement, or our 2011 Credit Facility, with a group of lenders. This credit facility provides for unsecured credit facilities in the aggregate principal amount of $1.1 billion, comprised of a five-year revolving loan facility of $700.0 million and a five-year $400.0 million term loan facility. Additionally, on July 14, 2011, we entered into a $50 million uncommitted revolving loan facility, or 2011 Uncommitted Facility, which is callable by the bank at any time and has no covenants. At the end of fiscal 2011, our total debt was comprised primarily of a term loan of $385.0 million and a revolving credit line of $133.3 million under the 2011 Credit Facility and a revolving credit line of $44.0 million under the 2011 Uncommitted Facility. Debt incurred under this agreement could have important consequences, such as: • requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to debt service, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other cash requirements, • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in, our industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage, and • limiting our ability to incur additional debt on acceptable terms, if at all. Additionally, if we were to default under our amended credit agreement and were unable to obtain a waiver for such a default, interest on the obligations would accrue at an increased rate and the lenders could accelerate our obligations under the amended credit agreement. That acceleration will be automatic in the case of bankruptcy and insolvency events of default. Additionally, our subsidiaries that have guaranteed the amended credit agreement could be required to pay the full amount of our obligations under the amended credit agreement. Any such action on the part of the lenders against us would harm our financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We May Not Be Able to Enter Into or Maintain Important Alliances We believe that in certain business opportunities our success will depend on our ability to form and maintain alliances with industry participants, such as Caterpillar, Nikon and CNH Global. Our failure to form and maintain such alliances, or the pre-emption of such alliances by actions of competitors or us, will adversely affect our ability to penetrate emerging markets. We also utilize dealer networks, including those affiliated with some of our strategic allies such as Caterpillar and CNH Global, to market, sell and service some of our products. Disruption of dealer coverage within a specific geographic market could cause difficulties in marketing, selling or servicing our products and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Moreover, dealers who carry products that compete with our products may focus their inventory purchases and sales efforts on goods provided by competitors due to industry demand or profitability. Such inventory adjustments and sourcing decisions can adversely impact our sales, financial condition and results of operations. If we experience problems from current or future alliances or our dealer network, it could harm our operating results and we may not be able to realize value from any such strategic alliances. Our Inability to Accurately Predict Orders and Shipments May Subject Our Results of Operations to Significant Fluctuations From Quarter to Quarter We have not been able in the past to consistently predict when our customers will place orders and request shipments so that we cannot always accurately plan our manufacturing requirements. As a result, if orders and shipments differ from what we predict, we may incur additional expense and build excess inventory, which may require additional reserves and allowances. Accordingly, we have limited visibility into future changes in demand and our results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter. We Are Dependent on a Specific Manufacturer and Assembler for Many of Our Products and on Other Manufacturers, and Specific Suppliers of Critical Parts for Our Products We are substantially dependent upon Flextronics International Limited as our preferred manufacturing partner for many of our GNSS products. Under the agreement, we provide to Flextronics a twelve-month product forecast and place purchase orders with Flextronics at least thirty calendar days in advance of the scheduled delivery of products to our customers, depending on production lead time. Although purchase orders placed with Flextronics are cancelable, the terms of the agreement would require us to purchase from Flextronics all inventory not returnable or usable by other Flextronics customers. Accordingly, if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from Flextronics to meet customers’ delivery requirements or we may accumulate excess inventories, if such inventories are not usable by other Flextronics customers. Our current contract with Flextronics continues in effect until either party gives the other ninety days written notice. We rely on specific suppliers for a number of our critical components and on other contract manufacturers for the manufacture, test and assembly of certain products and components. We have experienced shortages of components in the past. Our current reliance on specific or a limited group of suppliers and contract manufacturers involves risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, reduced control over pricing and delivery schedules, discontinuation of certain components, and economic conditions which may adversely impact the viability of our suppliers and contract manufacturers. This situation may be exacerbated during any period of economic recovery or a competitive environment. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture, assemble and test such components internally could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and could harm our reputation and brand as well as our operating results. 23 Table of Contents Our Annual and Quarterly Performance May Fluctuate Which Could Negatively Impact Our Operations and Our Stock Price Our operating results have fluctuated and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Results in any period could be affected by: • changes in market demand, • competitive market conditions, • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, • the cost and availability of components, • the mix of our customer base and sales channels, • the mix of products sold, • pricing of products, • our ability to expand our sales and marketing organization effectively, • our ability to attract and retain key technical and managerial employees, and • general global economic conditions. In addition, demand for our products in any quarter or year may vary due to the seasonal buying patterns of our customers in the agricultural and engineering and construction industries. The price of our common stock could decline substantially in the event such fluctuations result in our financial performance being below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which are based primarily on historical models that are not necessarily accurate representations of the future. We Are Dependent on New Products and if We are Unable to Successfully Introduce Them Into The Market, Our Customer Base May Decline or Fail to Grow as Anticipated Our future revenue stream depends to a large degree on our ability to bring new products to market on a timely basis. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance of such products. We may incur problems in the future in innovating and introducing new products. Our development stage products may not be successfully completed or, if developed, may not achieve significant customer acceptance. If we were unable to successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and we might not achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. If we are unable to introduce new products, if other companies develop similar technology products, or if we do not develop compelling new products, our number of customers may not grow as anticipated, or may decline, which could harm our operating results. We Are Dependent on Proprietary Technology, which Could Result in Litigation that Could Divert Significant Valuable Resources Our future success and competitive position is dependent upon our proprietary technology, and we rely on patent, trade secret, trademark, and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. The patents owned or licensed by us may be invalidated, circumvented and challenged. The rights granted under these patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Any of our pending or future patent applications may not be issued within the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain our software or develop software with the same functionality or to obtain and use information 24 Table of Contents that we regard as proprietary. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents owned by us. In addition, effective copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. The steps taken by us to protect our technology might not prevent the misappropriation of such technology. The value of our products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields in which there are many current patent filings. We recognize that as new patents are issued or are brought to our attention by the holders of such patents, it may be necessary for us to withdraw products from the market, take a license from such patent holders, or redesign our products. We do not believe any of our products currently infringe patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, but we cannot be certain they do not do so. In addition, the legal costs and engineering time required to safeguard intellectual property or to defend against litigation could become a significant expense of operations. Any such litigation could require us to incur substantial costs and divert significant valuable resources, including the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our Products May Contain Undetected Errors, Product Defects or Software Errors, which Could Result in Damage to Our Reputation, Lost Revenue, Diverted Development Resources and Increased Service Costs, Warranty Claims, and Litigation We warrant that our products will be free of defect for various periods of time, depending on the product. In addition, certain of our contracts include epidemic failure clauses. If invoked, these clauses may entitle the customer to return or obtain credits for products and inventory, or to cancel outstanding purchase orders even if the products themselves are not defective. We must develop our products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing market, and we have a history of frequently introducing new products. Products and services as sophisticated as ours could contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. In general, our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs, warranty claims, and litigation. Many of Our Products Rely on GNSS technology, the GPS, and other Satellite Systems, Which May Become Inoperable and Result in Lost Revenue GNSS technology, GPS satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. Many of the GPS satellites currently in orbit were originally designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However, of the current deployment of 31 satellites in place, over a third have already been in operation for more than 14 years. To repair damaged or malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites below the 24-satellite standard established for GPS may impair the utility of the GPS system and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. GPS satellites and ground control segments are being modernized. GPS modernization software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates. As the principal GNSS currently in operation, we are dependent on continued operation of GPS. GPS is operated by the U. S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however if the policy were to change, and GPS were no longer supported by the U. S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of our products also use signals from systems that augment GPS, such as the Wide Area Augmentation System and National Differential GPS System, and satellites transmitting signal corrections data on mobile 25 Table of Contents satellite services frequencies utilized by our Omnistar corrections services. Some of these augmentation systems are operated by the federal government and rely on continued funding and maintenance of these systems. In addition, some of our products also use satellite signals from the Russian GLONASS System. Any curtailment of the operating capability of these systems or discontinuance of service could result in decreased user capability thereby impacting our markets. The European community is developing an independent radio navigation satellite system, known as Galileo. Although we have a commercial license to market and sell receivers capable of receiving the Galileo open service signal, European authorities in the future may decide to offer other premium or encrypted service signals under different licenses. Even though an operational Galileo system is several years away, if we are unable to develop a timely commercial product, or obtain a timely license to future Galileo service signals, it could result in lost revenue which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our Business is Subject to Disruptions and Uncertainties Caused by War, Terrorism, or Civil Unrest Acts of war, acts of terrorism, or other circumstances of civil unrest, especially any directed at the GNSS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may invoke a redeployment of the satellites used in GNSS or interruptions of the system. Civil unrest or other political activities may impact regional economies through work stoppages and limitations on foreign business transactions. To the extent that such interruptions result in delays or cancellations of orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our Products are Highly Technical, and Some of Our Software Relies On Third Party Technologies including Open Source Software, so If Integration or Incompatibility Issues Arise with These Technologies, These Technologies Become Unavailable or Our Products Contain Errors, Defects or Security Vulnerabilities, Our Product and Services Development May be Delayed, Our Reputation Could be Harmed and Our Business Could be Adversely Affected. Our products, including our software products, are highly technical and complex and, when deployed, may contain errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. In addition, we rely on software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. Errors, viruses or bugs may also be present in software that we license from third parties and incorporate into our products or in third party software that our customers use in conjunction with our software. In addition, our customers’ proprietary software and network firewall protections may corrupt data from our products and create difficulties in implementing our solutions. Changes to third party software that our customers use in conjunction with our software could also render our applications inoperable. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities in our products or any defects in, or compatibility issues with, any third party software or customers’ network environments discovered after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products alone or in combination with third party software could expose them to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our products. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and lead some customers to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases or use competitive products. The third party software licenses we rely upon may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the software may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors, resulting in development delays. Some of these software licenses are subject to annual renewals at the discretion of the licensors. In many cases, if we were to breach a provision of these license agreements, the 26 Table of Contents licensor could terminate the agreement immediately. We license technologies and patents underlying some of our software from third parties, and the loss of these licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of licenses to, or inability to support, maintain and enhance, any such third party software could result in increased costs, or delays in software releases or updates, until such issues have been resolved. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. We also incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market or sell our products or to develop new products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third-parties in order to continue offering our products, to disclose and offer royalty-free licenses in connection with our own source code, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business. The Volatility of Our Stock Price Could Adversely Affect An Investment in Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During fiscal 2011, our stock price ranged from $31.88 to $52.30. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: • announcements and rumors of developments related to our business or the industry in which we compete, • quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels, • general conditions in the worldwide economy, • acquisition announcements, • new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, • developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation, • developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers, and • any significant acts of terrorism. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of “high-tech” companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. Our information systems or those of our outside vendors may be subject to disruption, delays or security incidents that could adversely impact our customers and operations. We rely on our information systems and those of third parties for things such as processing customer orders, delivery of products, providing services and support to our customers, billing and tracking our customers, hosting and managing customer data, and otherwise running our business. Any disruption in our information systems and those of the third parties upon whom we rely could have a significant impact on our business. A security incident in our own systems or the systems of our third party providers may compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our own internal data, the availability of our products and websites designed to support our customers, or our customer data. Unauthorized access to our proprietary business information or customer data may be obtained through break-ins, breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, breach of the security of the networks of our third party providers, 27 Table of Contents or other misconduct. It is also possible that unauthorized access to customer data may be obtained through inadequate use of security controls by customers. While our products and services provide and support strong password controls, IP restriction and other security mechanisms, the use of such mechanisms are controlled in many cases by our customers. We may also experience delays or interruptions caused by a number of factors, including access to the internet, the failure of our network or software systems, or significant variability in visitor traffic on our product websites. It is also possible that hardware or software failures or errors in our systems, or in those of our third party providers, could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. These failures and interruptions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, human error, hardware or software defects or malfunctions (including defects or malfunctions of components of our systems that are supplied by third-party service providers), and similar events or disruptions. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could cause system interruptions and delays, and result in loss of critical data and lengthy interruptions in our services. Our global operations expose us to risks and challenges associated with conducting business internationally, and our results of operations may be adversely affected by our efforts to comply with U.S. laws which apply to international operations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and US export control laws, as well as the laws of other countries. We operate on a global basis with offices or activities in Europe, Africa, Asia, South America, Australasia and North America. We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, export control laws, U.S. laws such as the FCPA, and export control laws, and similar laws in other countries which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers. Many of our products are subject to U.S. export law restrictions that limit the destinations and types of customers to which our products may be sold, or require an export license in connection with sales outside the United States. Given the high level of complexity of these laws, there is a risk that some provisions may be inadvertently breached, for example through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements or otherwise. Also, we may be held liable for actions taken by our local partners. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. In addition, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or through other methods that U.S. law and regulations prohibit us from using. 28 Table of Contents Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. In addition to the foregoing, engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: • longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges, bureaucratic requirements and other trade barriers; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties protecting or procuring intellectual property rights; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These factors or any combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue or our overall financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 