Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and in any other documents to which we refer you in this Form 10-K, before purchasing our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Current Economic Conditions May Have an Impact on Our Business and Financial Condition in Ways that We Currently Cannot Predict. The Company’s operations and performance depend on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of business spending, which have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Uncertainties in the financial and credit markets have caused our customers to postpone purchases, and continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products and services. Continued adverse economic conditions are likely to depress tax revenue of federal, state and local government entities, which are significant purchasers of the Company’s products. Protectionist trade measures that may be adopted in response to the economic downturn could reduce demand for our products and services overseas. With the exception primarily of our Mobile Solutions and Advanced Devices segments, our products are generally sold through a dealer channel, and our dealers depend on the availability of credit to finance purchases of our products for their inventory. Customer collections are our primary source of cash. While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if the current market conditions deteriorate, we may experience increased collection times or greater write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow. In addition, the Company's results may be adversely affected if the Company is unable to market, manufacture, and ship new products. Any write-off of goodwill could also negatively impact our financial results. Finally, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue additional expansion opportunities and maintain our desired level of revenue growth in the future. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for the Company’s products and services and on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Our Inability to Accurately Predict Orders and Shipments May Subject Our Results of Operations to Significant Fluctuations From Quarter to Quarter 17 Table of Contents We have not been able in the past to consistently predict when our customers will place orders and request shipments so that we cannot always accurately plan our manufacturing requirements. As a result, if orders and shipments differ from what we predict, we may incur additional expense and build excess inventory, which may require additional reserves and allowances. Accordingly, we have limited visibility into future changes in demand and our results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Our Operating Results in Each Quarter May Be Affected by Special Conditions, such as Seasonality, Late Quarter Purchases, Weather, and Other Potential Issues Due in part to the buying patterns of our customers, a significant portion of our quarterly revenue occurs from orders received and immediately shipped to customers in the last few weeks and days of each quarter, although our operating expense tends to remain fairly predictable. Engineering and Construction purchases tend to occur in early spring, and governmental agencies tend to utilize funds available at the end of the government’s fiscal year for additional purchases at the end of our third fiscal quarter in September of each year. Concentrations of orders sometimes also occur at the end of our other two fiscal quarters. Additionally, a majority of our sales force earns commissions on a quarterly basis which may cause concentrations of orders at the end of any fiscal quarter. It could harm our operating results if for any reason expected sales are deferred, orders are not received, or shipments are delayed a few days at the end of a quarter. We Are Dependent on a Specific Manufacturer and Assembler for Many of Our Products and on Specific Suppliers of Critical Parts for Our Products We are substantially dependent upon Flextronics International Limited as our preferred manufacturing partner for many of our GPS products. Under the agreement, we provide to Flextronics a twelve-month product forecast and place purchase orders with Flextronics at least thirty calendar days in advance of the scheduled delivery of products to our customers, depending on production lead time. Although purchase orders placed with Flextronics are cancelable, the terms of the agreement would require us to purchase from Flextronics all inventory not returnable or usable by other Flextronics customers. Accordingly, if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from Flextronics to meet customers’ delivery requirements or we may accumulate excess inventories, if such inventories are not usable by other Flextronics customers. Our current contract with Flextronics continues in effect until either party gives the other ninety days written notice. In addition, we rely on specific suppliers for a number of our critical components. We have experienced shortages of components in the past. Our current reliance on specific or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, reduced control over pricing, and economic conditions which may adversely impact the viability of our suppliers. This situation may be exacerbated during any period of economic recovery. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components internally could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, which could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and could harm our reputation and brand as well as our operating results. Our Annual and Quarterly Performance May Fluctuate Which Could Negatively Impact Our Operations and Our Stock Price Our operating results have fluctuated and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Results in any period could be affected by: · changes in market demand, · competitive market conditions, · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, · the cost and availability of components, · the mix of our customer base and sales channels, · the mix of products sold, · pricing of products, · our ability to expand our sales and marketing organization effectively, · our ability to attract and retain key technical and managerial employees, and · general global economic conditions. In addition, demand for our products in any quarter or year may vary due to the seasonal buying patterns of our customers in the agricultural and engineering and construction industries. The price of our common stock could decline substantially in the event such fluctuations result in our financial performance being below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which are based primarily on historical models that are not necessarily accurate representations of the future. 18 Table of Contents We Are Dependent on New Products and if We are Unable to Successfully Introduce Them Into The Market, Our Customer Base May Decline or Fail to Grow as Anticipated Our future revenue stream depends to a large degree on our ability to bring new products to market on a timely basis. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products, and achieve market acceptance of such products. We may incur problems in the future in innovating and introducing new products. Our development stage products may not be successfully completed or, if developed, may not achieve significant customer acceptance. If we were unable to successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and we might not achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. If we are unable to introduce new products, if other companies develop similar technology products, or if we do not develop compelling new products, our number of customers may not grow as anticipated, or may decline, which could harm our operating results. The Actions that We Have Taken in Response to The Global Economic Slowdown and Our Related Business Slowdown May Not Be as Effective as Anticipated. We have taken actions to reduce our cost structure to more closely align our costs with our revenue levels. In taking these actions, we are attempting to balance the cost reductions from such initiatives against the risk of impairing our ability to operate our business and capitalize on any recovery. If we do not achieve the proper balance of these costs reduction initiatives, we may impair critical elements our operations, the loss of which could negatively impact our ability to remain competitive in the market place or to benefit from an economic recovery. We cannot assure our cost cutting efforts will achieve appropriate levels of expenses and we may take additional actions in the future. We Are Dependent on Proprietary Technology, which Could Result in Litigation that Could Divert Significant Valuable Resources Our future success and competitive position is dependent upon our proprietary technology, and we rely on patent, trade secret, trademark, and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. The patents owned or licensed by us may be invalidated, circumvented, and challenged. The rights granted under these patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Any of our pending or future patent applications may not be issued within the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents owned by us. In addition, effective copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. The steps taken by us to protect our technology might not prevent the misappropriation of such technology. The value of our products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields in which there are many current patent filings. We recognize that as new patents are issued or are brought to our attention by the holders of such patents, it may be necessary for us to withdraw products from the market, take a license from such patent holders, or redesign our products. We do not believe any of our products currently infringe patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, but we cannot be certain they do not do so. In addition, the legal costs and engineering time required to safeguard intellectual property or to defend against litigation could become a significant expense of operations. Any such litigation could require us to incur substantial costs and divert significant valuable resources, including the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which harm our results of operations and financial condition. Investing in and Integrating New Acquisitions Could be Costly and May Place a Significant Strain on Our Management Systems and Resources Which Could Negatively Impact Our Operating Results We have recently acquired a number of companies, and intend to continue to acquire other companies. Acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks, including: · potential inability to successfully integrate acquired operations and products or to realize cost savings or other anticipated benefits from integration, · loss of key employees of acquired operations, 19 Table of Contents · the difficulty of assimilating geographically dispersed operations and personnel of the acquired companies, · the potential disruption of our ongoing business, · unanticipated expense related to acquisitions; including significant transactions costs which under the new accounting rules, are required to be expensed rather than capitalized, · the correct assessment of the relative percentages of in-process research and development expense that can be immediately written off as compared to the amount which must be amortized over the appropriate life of the asset, · the impairment of relationships with employees and customers of either an acquired company or our own business, and · the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired business. As a result of such acquisitions, we have significant assets that include goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The testing of this goodwill and intangibles for impairment under established accounting guidelines requires significant use of judgment and assumptions. Changes in business conditions could require adjustments to the valuation of these assets. In addition, losses incurred by a company in which we have an investment may have a direct impact on our financial statements or could result in our having to write-down the value of such investment. Any such problems in integration or adjustments to the value of the assets acquired could harm our growth strategy, and could be costly and place a significant strain on our management systems and resources. Our Products May Contain Errors or Defects, which Could Result in Damage to Our Reputation, Lost Revenue, Diverted Development Resources and Increased Service Costs, Warranty Claims, and Litigation We warrant that our products will be free of defect for various periods of time, depending on the product. In addition, certain of our contracts include epidemic failure clauses. If invoked, these clauses may entitle the customer to return or obtain credits for products and inventory, or to cancel outstanding purchase orders even if the products themselves are not defective. We must develop our products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing market, and we have a history of frequently introducing new products. Products and services as sophisticated as ours could contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. In general, our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs, warranty claims, and litigation. We Are Dependent on the Availability of Allocated Bands within the Radio Frequency Spectrum Our GNSS technology is dependent on the use of satellite signals from space and on terrestrial communication bands. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used. Any ITU or local reallocation of radio frequency bands, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products. Many of our products use other radio frequency bands, together with the GNSS signal, to provide enhanced GNSS capabilities, such as real-time kinematics precision. The continuing availability of these non-GNSS radio frequencies is essential to provide enhanced GNSS products to our precision survey, agriculture, and construction machine controls markets. In addition, emissions from other services and equipment operating in adjacent frequency bands or in-band may impair the utility and reliability of our products. Any regulatory changes in spectrum allocation or in allowable operating conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have certain products, such as GPS RTK systems, and surveying and mapping systems that use integrated radio communication technology requiring access to available radio frequencies allocated to local government. Some bands are experiencing congestion. In the U.S., the FCC announced that it will require migration of radio technology from wideband to narrowband operations in these bands. The rules require migration of users to narrowband channels by 2011. In the meantime, congestion could cause FCC coordinators to restrict or refuse licenses. An inability to obtain access to these radio frequencies by end users could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of Our Products Rely on GNSS technology, the GPS, and other Satellite Systems, Which May Become Inoperable and Result in Lost Revenue 20 Table of Contents GNSS technology, GPS satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. Many of the GPS satellites currently in orbit were originally designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However, of the current deployment of 30 satellites in place, some have already been in operation for more than 12 years. To repair damaged or malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites may impair the current utility of the GPS system and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. GPS satellites and ground control segments are being modernized. GPS modernization software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates. As the only complete GNSS currently in operation, we are dependent on continued operation of GPS. GPS is operated by the U. S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however if the policy were to change, and GPS were no longer supported by the U. S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of our products also use signals from systems that augment GPS, such as the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) and National Differential GPS System (NDGPS). Many of these augmentation systems are operated by the federal government and rely on continued funding and maintenance of these systems. In addition, some of our products also use satellite signals from the Russian GLONASS System. Any curtailment of the operating capability of these systems could result in decreased user capability thereby impacting our markets. The European community has begun development of an independent radio navigation satellite system, known as Galileo. We have access to the preliminary signal design, which is subject to change and which requires a commercial license from Galileo authorities. Although an operational Galileo system is several years away, if we are unable to develop a timely commercial product, or obtain a timely commercial license, it could result in lost revenue which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our Business is Subject to Disruptions and Uncertainties Caused by War or Terrorism Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may invoke a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions result in delays or cancellations of orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We Are Exposed to Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates and Although We Hedge Against These Risks, Our Attempts to Hedge Could be Unsuccessful and Expose Us to Losses A significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., and as such, we face exposure to movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Fluctuation in currency impacts our operating results. Currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. The hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain non-functional currency assets and liabilities. Our attempts to hedge against these risks could be unsuccessful and expose us to losses. Our Debt Could Adversely Affect Our Cash Flow and Prevent Us from Fulfilling Our Financial Obligations We have an existing unsecured revolving credit agreement, under which we have an ability to borrow an aggregate amount of up to $300 million. As of January 1, 2010, $151.0 million was outstanding under this line of credit. Debt incurred under this agreement could have important consequences, such as: · requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to debt service, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other cash requirements, · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in, our industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage, and 21 Table of Contents · limiting our ability to incur additional debt on acceptable terms, if at all. Additionally, if we were to default under our amended credit agreement and were unable to obtain a waiver for such a default, interest on the obligations would accrue at an increased rate and the lenders could accelerate our obligations under the amended credit agreement, however that acceleration will be automatic in the case of bankruptcy and insolvency events of default. Additionally, our subsidiaries that have guaranteed the amended credit agreement could be required to pay the full amount of our obligations under the amended credit agreement. Any such action on the part of the lenders against us could harm our financial condition. We May Not Be Able to Enter Into or Maintain Important Alliances We believe that in certain business opportunities our success will depend on our ability to form and maintain alliances with industry participants, such as Caterpillar, Nikon, and CNH Global. Our failure to form and maintain such alliances, or the pre-emption of such alliances by actions of competitors or us, will adversely affect our ability to penetrate emerging markets. If we experience problems from current or future alliances it could harm our operating results and we may not be able to realize value from any such strategic alliances. We Face Competition in Our Markets Which Could Decrease Our Revenue and Growth Rates or Impair Our Operating Results and Financial Condition Our markets are highly competitive and we expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. Our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors including the price, quality and performance of our products, the level of customer service, the development of new technology and our ability to participate in emerging markets. Within each of our markets, we encounter direct competition from other GPS, optical and laser suppliers and competition may intensify from various larger U.S. and non-U.S. competitors and new market entrants, particularly from emerging markets such as China and India. The competition in the future may, in some cases, result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could decrease our revenue and growth rates or impair our operating results and financial condition. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the future against existing and additional competitors will depend largely on our ability to execute our strategy to provide systems and products with significantly differentiated features compared to currently available products. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully, and our products may not be competitive with other technologies or products that may be developed by our competitors, many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales, and other resources than we do. We Are Subject to the Impact of Governmental and Other Similar Certifications and Failure to Obtain the Requisite Certifications Could Harm Our Operating Results We market certain products that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold. For example, CE certification for radiated emissions is required for most GPS receiver and data communications products sold in the European community. An inability to obtain such certifications in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Also, some of our products that use integrated radio communication technology require product type certification and some products require an end user to obtain licensing from the FCC for frequency-band usage. These are secondary licenses that are subject to certain restrictions. An inability or delay in obtaining such certifications or changes to the rules by the FCC could adversely affect our ability to bring our products to market which could harm our customer relationships and therefore, our operating results. Any failure to obtain the requisite certifications could also harm our operating results. The Volatility of Our Stock Price Could Adversely Affect An Investment in Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During fiscal 2009, our stock price ranged from $12.09 to $25.85. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: · announcements and rumors of developments related to our business or the industry in which we compete, · quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels, · general conditions in the worldwide economy, · acquisition announcements, · new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, · developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation, · developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers, and · any significant acts of terrorism. 22 Table of Contents In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of "high-tech" companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. Changes in Our Effective Tax Rate May Reduce Our Net Income in Future Periods A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: · the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed, · the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, · changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, · increases in expense not deductible for tax purposes, including transaction costs and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions, · changes in available tax credits, · changes in share-based compensation, · changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles, · the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes, and · challenges to the transfer pricing policies related to our global supply chain management structure. We are currently in various stages of multiple year examinations by federal, state, and foreign taxing authorities, including an audit of our 2005 through 2008 tax years by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Among other things, the IRS is examining our intercompany transfer pricing. Our effective tax rate is based on the geographic mix of earnings, statutory rates, intercompany transfer pricing, and enacted tax rules. If the IRS or the taxing authorities of any other jurisdiction were to successfully challenge a material tax position, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. In addition, proposals for changes in U.S. tax laws that may be considered or adopted in the future could subject the Company to higher taxes or result in changes to tax law provisions that currently provide favorable tax treatment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 