Item 1A Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. We Depend on Market Conditions and Prices in the Oil and Gas Industry. Our success depends heavily upon our ability to market oil and gas production at favorable prices. In recent decades, there have been both periods of worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. As a result the world has experienced periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis; these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas. The excess or short supply of oil and gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations. Natural gas demand and the prices paid for gas are seasonal. The fluctuations in gas prices and possible new regulations create uncertainty about whether we can continue to produce gas for a profit. Prices for oil and natural gas affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or natural gas would decrease our cash flows, as well as the carrying value of our proved reserves, our borrowing capacity and our ability to obtain additional capital. Variance in Estimates of Oil and Gas Reserves could be Material. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, such estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those estimated in reserve reports that we periodically obtain from independent reserve engineers. You should not construe the standardized measure of proved reserves contained in our annual report as the current market value of the estimated proved reserves of oil and gas attributable to our properties. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission requirements, we have based the standardized measure of future net cash flows from the standardized measure of proved reserves on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices and costs may vary significantly. The following factors may also affect actual future net cash flows: - the timing of both production and related expenses; - changes in consumption levels; and - governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the calculation of the standardized measure of the future net cash flows using a 10% discount as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission is not necessarily the most appropriate discount rate based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated 4 with our reserves or the oil and gas industry in general. Furthermore, we may need to revise our reserves downward or upward based upon actual production, results of future development, supply and demand for oil and gas, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our standardized measure of proved reserves may be revised downward or upward, based upon production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Actual production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to our reserves will likely vary from the estimates used, and such variances may be material. Future Acquisitions and Development Activities May Not Result in Additional Proved Reserves, and We May Not be Able to Drill Productive Wells at Acceptable Costs. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploitation activities, or both, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our ability to find or acquire additional reserves. The business of acquiring, enhancing or developing reserves is capital intensive. We require cash flow from operations as well as outside investments to fund our acquisition and development activities. If our cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be impaired. The Oil and Gas Industry has Mechanical and Environmental Risks. Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks. These risks include the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered, that operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, and that title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements, mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment may limit our ability to develop, produce or market our reserves. New wells we drill may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in the well. Drilling for oil and gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, our properties may be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. Industry operating risks include the risks of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance for these kinds of risks, but we cannot be sure that our level of insurance will cover all losses in the event of a drilling or production catastrophe. Insurance is not available for all operational risks, such as risks that we will drill a dry hole, fail in an attempt 5 to complete a well or have problems maintaining production from existing wells. Drilling is a Speculative Activity Even With Newer Technology. Assessing drilling prospects is uncertain and risky for many reasons. We have grown in the past several years by using 3-D seismic technology to acquire and develop exploratory projects in northern California, as well as by acquiring producing properties for further development. The successful acquisition of such properties depends on our ability to assess recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Nevertheless, exploratory drilling remains a speculative activity. Even when fully utilized and properly interpreted, 3-D seismic data and other advanced technologies assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures but do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are in fact present. In addition, 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies require greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of these costs. Therefore, our assessments of drilling prospects are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain. In connection with such an assessment, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Such a review, however, will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Breaches of Contract by Sellers of Properties Could Adversely Affect Operations. In most cases, we are not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and we generally acquire interests in the properties on an "as is" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. In those circumstances in which we have contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, the seller may not fulfill those obligations and leave us with the costs. We May Not be Able to Acquire Producing Oil and Gas Properties Which Contain Economically Recoverable Reserves. Competition for producing oil and gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties may be at prices that are too high to be acceptable. We Require Substantial Capital for Exploration and Development. We make substantial capital expenditures for our exploration and development projects. We will finance these capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and sales of direct working interests to third party investors. We will need additional financing in the future to fund our developmental and exploration activities. Additional financing that may be required may not be available or continue to be available to us. If additional capital resources are not available to us, our developmental and other activities may be curtailed, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Profit Depends on the Marketability of Production. The marketability of our natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Most of our natural gas is delivered through natural gas gathering systems and natural gas pipelines that we do not own. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, and/or changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce and market its oil and gas. Any dramatic change in market factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Depend on Key Personnel. Our business will depend on the continued services of our co-presidents and co-chief executive officers, Donald H. Hosmer and Stephen M. Hosmer. Stephen Hosmer is also the chief financial officer. We do not have employment agreements with either Donald or Stephen Hosmer. The loss of the services of either of these individuals would be particularly detrimental to us because of their background and experience in the oil and gas industry. The Hosmer Family Exerts Significant Influence Over Stockholder Matters. The control positions held by members of the Hosmer family may discourage others from making bids to buy Royale Energy or change its management without their consent. Donald H. Hosmer is the co-president of the company. Stephen M. Hosmer is the co-president and chief financial officer. Harry E. Hosmer is the chairman of the board. Together, they make up three of the eight members of our board of directors. At December 31, 2008, these individuals owned or controlled the following amounts of Royale Energy common stock, including shares they had the right to acquire on the exercise of outstanding stock options: Name Number of Shares (1) Percent (2), (3) Donald H. Hosmer 937,159 11.0% Stephen M. Hosmer (4) 1,175,427 13.8% Harry E. Hosmer 748,697 8.8% Total 2,861,283 33.2% (1) Includes the following options to purchase shares of stock: Donald H. Hosmer – 45,000, Stephen M. Hosmer – 30,000, and Harry E. Hosmer – 30,000. (2) Based on total of 8,506,098 outstanding shares on December 31, 2008. (3) Calculated pursuant to Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission. (4) Includes 12,000 shares of stock owned by the minor children of Stephen M. Hosmer. Mr. Hosmer disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares owned by his children. The amounts of stock owned by Hosmer family members make it quite likely that they could control the outcome of any contested vote of the stockholders on matters related to management of the corporation. 7 The Oil and Gas Industry is Highly Competitive. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive in all its phases. Competition is particularly intense with respect to the acquisition of desirable producing properties, the acquisition of oil and gas prospects suitable for enhanced production efforts, and the hiring of experienced personnel. Our competitors in oil and gas acquisition, development, and production include the major oil companies in addition to numerous independent oil and gas companies, individual proprietors and drilling programs. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial and personnel resources far greater than those which are available to us. They may be able to pay more for desirable producing properties and prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for, and purchase a greater number of producing properties and prospects than we can. We must compete against these larger companies for suitable producing properties and prospects, to generate future oil and gas reserves. Governmental Regulations Can Hinder Production. Domestic oil and gas exploration, production and sales are extensively regulated at both the federal and state levels. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, have legal authority to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations affecting the oil and gas industry which often are difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial penalties for noncompliance. State statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, and reports concerning operations. Most states where we operate also have statutes and regulations governing conservation matters, including the unitization or pooling of properties. Our operations are also subject to numerous laws and regulations governing plugging and abandonment, discharging materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. The heavy regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its costs of doing business and consequently affects its profitability. Changes in the laws, rules or regulations, or the interpretation thereof, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. Minority or Royalty Interest Purchases Do Not Allow Us to Control Production Completely. We sometimes acquire less than the controlling working interest in oil and gas properties. In such cases, it is likely that these properties would not be operated by us. When we do not have controlling interest, the operator or the other co-owners might take actions we do not agree with and possibly increase costs or reduce production income in ways we do not agree with. Environmental Regulations Can Hinder Production. Oil and gas activities can result in liability under federal, state and local environmental regulations for activities involving, among other things, water pollution and hazardous waste transport, storage, and disposal. Such liability can attach not only to the operator of record of the well, but also to other parties that may be deemed to be current or prior operators or owners of the wells or the equipment involved. We have inspections performed on our properties to assure 8 environmental law compliance, but inspections may not always be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. 