ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, together with other matters described in this Form 10-K in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial position or results of operations could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones faced by us. Additional risks not presently known or currently deemed immaterial by us could impair future business operations. Certain statements in this Form 10-K (including certain of the following 13 factors) constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled "Information Relating to Forward-Looking Statements" on page 3 of this Form 10-K. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF CONSOLIDATED NET LOSSES. WE EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR CONSOLIDATED NET LOSSES, AND WE MAY NOT ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY ON A CONSOLIDATED BASIS. We have incurred consolidated net losses from continuing operations for each of the last three years and our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2005 was $1,824,565. We expect to continue to have substantial consolidated net losses in future periods as we continue research and development programs at Sentigen Biosciences. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenue and profitability growth from CMT to pay these costs and achieve profitability. We cannot be certain whether or when we will become profitable. In addition, should CMT's revenues and profitability deteriorate in the future our consolidated net losses could also increase substantially. A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR REVENUES HAS BEEN DERIVED FROM ONE CUSTOMER. One customer, Merck & Co., Inc., accounted for a significant percentage of our consolidated annual revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. CMT's contract with Merck & Co., Inc. expires on March 31, 2006. CMT is in the process of negotiating a new agreement with Merck & Co., Inc. There can be no assurance that a new agreement with Merck & Co., Inc. will be entered into or that such agreement will be as favorable as our prior agreement with Merck & Co., Inc. The decrease or loss of business from Merck & Co., Inc. would have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR WORKING CAPITAL IS USED TO FUND THE OPERATIONS OF SENTIGEN BIOSCIENCES WHICH MAY OR MAY NOT RESULT IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMERCIALLY VIABLE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES. A substantial portion of our working capital is used to fund the operations of Sentigen Biosciences, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Sentigen Biosciences has focused its efforts entirely on research and development since its inception in February 2000. Sentigen Biosciences has not generated substantial revenues and has a limited operating history on which to base a meaningful evaluation of its business or prospects. There is no assurance that Sentigen Biosciences will develop products or services that will be commercially viable, especially in light of the competition in the industry in which Sentigen Biosciences operates. WE MAY NEED TO RAISE MORE CAPITAL TO FUND SENTIGEN BIOSCIENCES' EXPANDING RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS AND WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING WHEN NEEDED. We may need to raise more capital to fund Sentigen Biosciences' research and development programs and to fully develop commercially viable products or services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financing when needed and on acceptable terms, if at all. It is possible that any such financing may be dilutive to our current stockholders and the terms of any debt financing may contain restrictive covenants limiting our ability to do certain things, including paying dividends. Our ability to obtain financing depends upon the status of our future business prospects, as well as conditions prevailing in the capital markets. Our business, financial position and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected if we cannot raise additional capital when needed. REVENUES ARE DEPENDENT ON THE CONTINUED RESEARCH NEEDS OF COMPANIES IN THE PHARMACEUTICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIES. We are highly dependent on research and development expenditures by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by general economic downturns in these industries and other factors resulting in a decrease in research and development expenditures in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Additionally, our revenues are dependent on the practice among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to hire outside organizations, such as ours, to conduct both small and large research projects. If the practice were to change and companies in the industry were to reduce their tendency to outsource their projects, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE CONTRACT RESEARCH INDUSTRY. The contract research industry is highly fragmented, with national and regional companies ranging from large, full-service companies to small, limited-service companies which specialize in one particular aspect of research and development or media production. Contract research companies compete on the basis of various factors, including: - reputation for on-time quality performance; - expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas; - scope of service offerings and how well such services are integrated; - strengths in various geographic markets; - price; - technological expertise and efficient drug development processes; - the ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a timesaving and accurate manner; and - expertise and experience in health economics. Many of our competitors have achieved significant national, regional and local brand name and product recognition and engaged in frequent and extensive advertising and promotional programs. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, personnel and other resources than us. Furthermore, the contract research industry has begun recently to attract attention from the investment community. This could lead to increased competition for such additional sources of financing among the contract research companies. While we believe that we can compete effectively, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future. DRUG DISCOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT IS AN INTENSELY COMPETITIVE BUSINESS THAT COULD RENDER OUR TECHNOLOGIES OBSOLETE OR NONCOMPETITIVE. Sentigen Biosciences has initially targeted its Tango(TM) Assay System to address the functionalization of GPCRs in pharmaceutical drug discovery and development. We believe that GPCRs are an important target class for drug discovery efforts and that most pharmaceutical, some biotechnology and other drug discovery organizations have internal programs focused on GPCRs. Another entity could have, or could develop, an assay technology for GPCRs to discover and develop drug leads or drug candidates more effectively, more efficiently or at a lower cost than our technology. Sentigen Biosciences' future competitive position depends on its ability to develop a platform that will be sufficiently more cost-effective and technically advantageous than other currently available technologies. While Sentigen Biosciences believes that its approach is unique and will provide a superior technological solution, there are several other platforms that have been developed and are being used in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. These other platforms are in direct competition with or could replace our technologies and there could possibly be additional such platforms under development elsewhere. There is no assurance that The Tango(TM) Assay System will be accepted by commercial customers as a platform that is sufficiently more effective than other commercially available platforms as to mandate changing from their existing assay systems or that The Tango(TM) Assay System platform will work effectively against all possible drug targets. Sentigen Biosciences has not yet determined the size of the market for its platform or the prices at which it could be marketed. In addition, as Sentigen Biosciences has not yet entered into any discovery or development agreements with biotechnology, pharmaceutical or other life science institutions, it is unable to accurately assess the market for its Assay System. We are also in the process of devoting a portion of Sentigen Biosciences' effort and resources to the development of a novel molecular profiling system which, if successful, we will attempt to commercialize. We are aware of several other molecular profiling systems targeting panels of GPCRs that are currently on the market. No assurance can be given that our profiling system, if successfully developed, will be accepted by commercial customers in place of the technologies currently on the market. In addition, we are unable at this time to reliably assess the market for this platform or the prices at which Sentigen Biosciences could charge for the system. WE PROVIDE OUR SERVICES ON A FEE-FOR-SERVICES BASIS AND THEREFORE WE BEAR THE RISK THAT THE COSTS INCURRED PROVIDING SUCH SERVICES WILL EXCEED THE FEES CHARGED FOR SUCH SERVICES. Our contracts are on a fee-for-service basis, providing for payments only after certain research milestones have been reached. We do not receive residual or royalty payments for future discoveries or uses involving the materials or services provided to our customers. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, these fee-for-service contracts accounted for 89%, 97% and 100% of our consolidated annual revenues, respectively. Since contracts are fee-for-service, we bear the risk that the costs to perform such services will be more than the corresponding fees that are charged for such services. Most of the contracts are terminable by the client immediately 15 or upon notice for a variety of reasons. Although the contracts often require payment to us for expenses to terminate the project and fees earned by us to date and, in some cases, a termination fee, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP AND MARKET POTENTIAL NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, OUR GROWTH COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. A key element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new products and services, which complement and expand our existing businesses. If we are unable to develop new services or products and attract customers, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy, and our future business, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. THE UNAUTHORIZED USE OF OUR PROPRIETARY INFORMATION MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We utilize certain proprietary information in connection with our research and development operations and the provision of our services, including processes to "division arrest" cells, gene expression systems and screening assays. To protect proprietary information, we rely on the customary principles of "work-for-hire" and have entered into non-disclosure agreements with certain employees, prospects, consultants and customers; however, these agreements can be breached, and if they are, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. In addition, our subsidiaries have filed patent applications in the U.S., two of which have been allowed and are expected to issue in 2006. We have also filed applications in other countries covering aspects of our proprietary information; however, we cannot assure you that patents will be granted on any of our patent applications. We also cannot assure you that the scope of any of these patents, if granted, will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. If competitors successfully use our proprietary information, our business, operations and financial position may be adversely affected. DEFENDING AGAINST CLAIMS OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT COULD BE EXPENSIVE, COULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS OR MATERIALLY ADVERSELY EFFECT OUR FINANCIAL POSITION. We believe our technology and service offerings have been independently developed and do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others; however, we are aware of patents and pending patent applications which may issue as patents that are drawn to the same field as our technology and service offerings. We cannot assure you that our technology and service offerings do not, and will not in the future, infringe upon the rights of third parties. We may be a party to legal proceedings and claims relating to the proprietary information of others from time to time in the ordinary course of business. We may incur substantial expense in defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. A successful claim might subject us to substantial monetary liability or might require us to modify products and services, or obtain a license. We have received letters from a third-party asserting that we are infringing certain patents which have been licensed to such third-party. While we do not believe that we are infringing any of the claims of these patents, we may not have sufficient financial or other resources necessary to successfully defend a patent infringement or other proprietary rights action. We cannot assure you that we could modify our technologies, products or services, or obtain a license in the event of an adverse judgment. DUE TO EXPECTED FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS, YOU SHOULD NOT RELY ON THE RESULTS OF ANY SINGLE QUARTER AS BEING INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. Our quarterly operating results are subject to volatility due to a variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to: - our ability to introduce new services and products successfully; - market acceptance of existing or new services, products and prices; - changes in customer research budgets which are influenced by the timing of their research and commercialization efforts and their receipt of government grants; - commencement, completion or cancellation of large contracts; - progress of ongoing contracts; - the ability to consistently fill CMT's services pipeline with profitable contracts; - our ability to control or adjust research and development, marketing, sales and general and administrative expenses in response to changes in revenues. 16 Since a large percentage of our operating costs are relatively fixed, variations in the timing and progress of large contracts can materially affect quarterly results. Comparisons of our quarterly financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. However, fluctuations in quarterly results could affect the market price of our common stock in a manner unrelated to our long term operating performance. THE PHARMACEUTICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIES ARE SUBJECT TO STRICT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to evolving federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations require that permits be obtained by us. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable material environmental laws, it is possible that there are environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. The cost of compliance with various existing or future environmental laws and regulations, including any cleanup costs, damages or penalties, could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and financial position. WE MAY BE FACED WITH POTENTIAL LIABILITY FOR INJURIES RESULTING FROM OUR PRODUCTS. We may be exposed to product liability claims as a result of the sale of our products. Although we have obtained product liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $2.0 million ($1.0 million per occurrence), and an umbrella policy that provides a $10.0 million coverage (per occurrence or aggregate), we cannot assure you that such insurance will fully cover any claims made by customers against us. If a successful suit were brought against us, unavailability or insufficiency of insurance coverage could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operations and financial position. Moreover, any adverse publicity arising from claims made against us, even if such claims were unsubstantiated and unsuccessful, could adversely affect our reputation and sales. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN THE SERVICES OF KEY MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES OR CONSULTANTS, OUR OPERATIONS MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our success substantially depends on the performance, contributions and expertise of our senior management team, including, Thomas Livelli, Chief Executive Officer and President and Kevin J. Lee, PhD, Vice President of Research of Sentigen Biosciences as well as our scientific consultant, Dr. Richard Axel. The departure of any of these persons or other executives, consultants or employees could have a material adverse effect on us. Our performance also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and professional, scientific and technical operating staff, as well as our ability to recruit qualified representatives for contract sales services. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS HAVE SUBSTANTIAL CONTROL OVER OUR AFFAIRS AND YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO INFLUENCE THE OUTCOME OF IMPORTANT MATTERS INVOLVING US. Executive officers and directors will have the power, in the aggregate, to direct the vote of approximately 34% of our common stock; therefore, these persons may have the power to exert substantial influence over our business policies and affairs and substantially affect the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors as well as mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other changes in control. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS HIGHLY VOLATILE AND THERE IS CURRENTLY ONLY A LIMITED TRADING MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. As a result of our stock price volatility, it is difficult to determine our true market value. Additionally, in 2005, the average daily trading volume in our common stock was approximately 2,035 shares. The lack of an active trading market could adversely affect the price of our common stock and your ability to sell shares of our common stock. POSSIBLE ADDITIONAL ISSUANCES WILL CAUSE DILUTION. As of December 31, 2005 we have 7,477,542 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, options to purchase an aggregate of 1,194,552 shares of our common stock are also outstanding. We are authorized to issue up to 20,000,000 shares and are therefore able to issue additional shares without being required to obtain stockholder 17 approval. Thus, investors in our common stock could find their holdings drastically diluted, which if it occurs, means that they will own a smaller percentage of our outstanding common stock. WE CURRENTLY DO NOT INTEND TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS ON OUR SHARES. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, nor do we plan on doing so in the future. The payment of dividends, if any, in the future is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition as well as other relevant factors. We currently intend to retain all earnings, if any, to finance our potential growth and the development of our business. Furthermore, our ability to declare or pay dividends may be limited in the future by the terms of any then-existing credit facilities, which may contain covenants that restrict the payment of cash dividends. IF WE DO NOT EFFECTIVELY MANAGE POTENTIAL GROWTH WE MAY EXPERIENCE IN THE FUTURE, OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE DISRUPTED OR OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE IMPAIRED. The potential growth of our business could place a significant strain on management systems and resources and may require us to implement new operating and financial systems, procedures and controls. The failure to manage any growth and expansion that may result in the future could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW MAY INHIBIT A TAKEOVER OF THE COMPANY. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in management that a stockholder might consider favorable. These provisions include, among others: - the right of the board to elect a director to fill a space created by the expansion of the board; - the ability of the board to alter our bylaws; and - the ability of the board to issue a series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 