ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors in Cell Genesys, Inc. should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below may not be the only ones relating to our company. This description includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2008. Additional risks that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, results of operation, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects and the trading price of our common stock and our abilities to repay our convertible notes could be harmed as a result of any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, and our other filings from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The continuation of our business as a going concern may depend on our ability to identify and successfully complete a strategic transaction. We terminated both the VITAL-1 and VITAL-2 trials and ended further development of GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer and have implemented a substantial restructuring plan approved by our Board of Directors. We had previously devoted substantially all of our research, development and clinical efforts and financial resources toward the development of GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer, and we have only limited early stage product candidates in clinical or preclinical development. As a result, we expect it to be difficult or impossible to raise the additional financing required to continue to operate our business as currently structured. We accordingly are exploring strategic alternatives, including merger with or acquisition by another company, further restructuring of our company and allocation of our resources toward other biopharmaceutical product areas, and sale of the company’s assets and liquidation of the company. We cannot predict whether we will be able to identify strategic transactions on a timely basis or at all. We also cannot predict whether any such transaction, once identified, would be approved by our stockholders, if approval is required, or consummated on favorable terms. We anticipate that any such transaction would be time-consuming and may require us to incur significant additional costs regardless even if completed. If we are unable to identify and complete an alternate strategic transaction, our business may be liquidated. In any case, our stockholders and noteholders could lose some or all of their investment in our common stock. We have only limited early stage product candidates in clinical or preclinical development from which we can potentially generate any revenue from product sales. As a result of terminating both the VITAL-1 and VITAL-2 trials we placed on hold the further development of GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer. We only have early stage product candidates in clinical or preclinical development. We do not expect to generate any revenue from product sales for at least the next several years, if ever. We will need substantial additional funds to continue operations, and our ability to generate funds is extremely limited and depends on many factors beyond our control. We will need substantial additional funds for lease obligations related to our manufacturing facility in Hayward, California, and for principal and interest payments related to our debt financing obligations. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase as a result of many factors, including, but not limited to: • the progress of implementing our restructuring plan; • whether we acquire other biopharmaceutical products or technologies; • our ability to outlicense our technology and the terms of those outlicensings; 15 Table of Contents • the principal amount of our debt that remains outstanding; and • the costs we incur in obtaining, defending and enforcing patent and other proprietary rights or gaining the freedom to operate under the patents of others. As mentioned above, we have recently terminated our VITAL-1 and VITAL-2 trials. As a result, it will be difficult or impossible for us to raise additional financing. If adequate funds are not available, we may not be able to pursue other biopharmaceutical product areas, or be required to sell or merge the company or liquidate the company. We may not be able to maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. On October 21, 2008, we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter, or Nasdaq Letter, indicating that we had become non-compliant with the minimum $1.00 bid price per share requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Global Market as set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) because the price of our stock closed below the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days. The Nasdaq Letter indicated that in light of extraordinary market conditions, Nasdaq has determined to suspend enforcement of the minimum bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements through January 16, 2009. Accordingly, the Nasdaq Letter stated that in accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we have 180 calendar days from January 20, 2009, or until July 20, 2009, to regain compliance. Subsequently, on December 19, 2008, NASDAQ announced that given the continued extraordinary market conditions, NASDAQ is extending the suspension of the minimum bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements through April 20, 2009. Accordingly we now have until October 27, 2009 to regain compliance. Companies listed on NASDAQ are required to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. NASDAQ uses the consolidated closing bid price to determine whether a company complies with this requirement. If a company trades for 30 consecutive business days below the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement, NASDAQ will send a deficiency notice to the company advising that it has been afforded a “compliance period” of 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the applicable requirements. Thereafter, Capital Market companies can receive an additional 180-day compliance period if they meet all initial inclusion requirements for the Capital Market, except for the bid price requirement. If a Global Select Market or Global Market company is unable to comply with the bid price requirement prior to the expiration of its 180-day compliance period, it may transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market, so as to take advantage of the additional compliance period offered on that market, provided it meets all requirements for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, except for the bid price requirement. Stocks trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market rather than the NASDAQ Global Market tend to be more volatile and less liquid as trading volumes are generally significantly lower on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Furthermore, if we are unable to meet the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, we could be delisted from NASDAQ entirely, which would likely result in even less trading volume and liquidity in our common stock. We may not be able to raise additional funds necessary to continue operating as a going concern on favorable terms, or at all. Because of our capital requirements, we will need to raise additional funds to continue operations. From time to time, we may seek to access the public or private debt and equity markets. Our announcement that we have terminated the VITAL-1 and VITAL-2 Phase 3 trials of GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer has significantly depressed our stock price and severely impaired our ability to raise additional funds. As a result, it will be difficult or impossible for us to raise additional capital. We also may seek to raise additional capital through outlicensing technologies or third-party collaborations. If adequate funds are not available on favorable terms, or at all, we will not be able to pursue certain strategic options, including allocating our resources to other biopharmaceutical product areas. 16 Table of Contents Alternatively, we may need to seek funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to relinquish rights to technologies or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. These arrangements could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow or future prospects. Currently, we do not have collaborative partners as Takeda terminated our collaborative agreement on December 1, 2008, effective March 1, 2009, upon which time this collaborative partnership will no longer be a source of revenue. We may not be successful in entering into additional collaborative partnerships on favorable terms, if at all. Certain of our oncolytic virus therapy products are currently subject to future commercialization rights belonging to Novartis AG, which at its option may provide further development funding for these products. However, in January 2009, we entered into discussions with Novartis to terminate this agreement. Our efforts to raise capital through such outlicensing activities may fail. Failure to enter into new corporate relationships may harm our business. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and future prospects could suffer as a result of future strategic alternatives. We may engage in a future merger with or acquisition by another company or investments that could dilute our existing stockholders or cause us to incur contingent liabilities, commitments, debt or significant expense. In the course of pursuing strategic alternatives at this time or in the ordinary course of business in the future, we may evaluate potential acquisitions or investments in related businesses, products or technologies. Future mergers with or acquisitions by another company could subject us to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • the loss of key personnel and business relationships; • difficulties associated with assimilating and integrating the new personnel, intellectual property and operations of the acquired companies; • the expense associated with maintenance of diverse standards, controls, procedures, employees and clients; and • our inability to generate revenue from acquired technology sufficient to meet our objectives in undertaking the acquisition or even to offset the associated acquisition and maintenance costs. As a result of such risks, a merger with or an acquisition by another company or investment could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. We expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not become profitable in the future. We have incurred an accumulated deficit since our inception. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $538.1 million. We expect to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. In the past, these losses were due primarily to the expansion of development programs, clinical trials and manufacturing activities in connection with the development of GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer, which we have ended, and, to a lesser extent, general and administrative expenses, at a time when we have yet to realize any product revenues. We have only limited early stage candidates in clinical or preclinical development, and we do not expect to realize any revenues from product sales in the next several years, if ever. We also have substantial lease obligations related to our manufacturing facility in Hayward, California. We expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as we implement our substantial restructuring plan and expense restructuring charges. We cannot guarantee that we will ever achieve positive cash flow or profitability. 17 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could harm our financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt. As of March 9, 2009, we had $68.3 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding convertible notes due in 2011. Our annual interest payment on these notes is approximately $2.1 million. Our substantial indebtedness could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the convertible notes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to raise or borrow additional funds for future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate requirements, limit our ability to pursue strategic alternatives, including merger or acquisition transactions, or allocation of resources to new product areas; and • limit our flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. We may not have sufficient funds to pay principal and interest on our outstanding convertible notes due in 2011 when due. We have substantial indebtedness, but currently no significant source of revenues. As a result, we may seek from time to time to purchase or retire additional amounts of our outstanding convertible debt through cash purchases and/or exchanges for other securities of our company in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions and/or a tender offer, if we can do so on attractive terms. If we were unable to repurchase these notes on favorable terms, or at all, or obtain additional financing or revenues from other sources, we may not have sufficient cash remaining for operations which could result in bankruptcy. Additionally, if we buy back our outstanding convertible debt through cash purchases it will reduce our cash balance which may impair our ability to execute strategic alternatives, or leave us without sufficient cash remaining for operations, which could harm our financial condition. If we reallocate our resources to other biopharmaceutical product areas, we may not be successful in developing a new product candidate and we will be subject to all the risks and uncertainties associated with research and development of new biopharmaceutical product candidates. We may explore the possibility of reallocating our resources towards other biopharmaceutical product areas. We cannot guarantee that any such allocation would result in the identification and successful development of a commercially viable product candidate. The development of biopharmaceutical product candidates is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: • the time, costs and uncertainty associated with the clinical testing required to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products and obtain regulatory approvals; • the ability to raise sufficient funds to fund the research and development of product candidates; • the ability to find third party collaborators to assist or share in the costs of product development, and potential dependence on strategic partners and third party collaborators, to the extent we rely on them for future sales, marketing or distribution; • the ability to protect the intellectual property rights associated with a product candidate; • litigation; • competition; • ability to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements; 18 Table of Contents • government restrictions on the pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals in the United States and elsewhere; and • the extent to which third-party payers, including government agencies, private health care insurers and other health care payers, such as health maintenance organizations, and self-insured employee plans, will cover and pay for newly approved therapies. The commercial value of our patents is uncertain. As of December 31, 2008, we had 400 U.S. and non-U.S. patents issued or granted to us or available for use by us based on licensing arrangements and 256 U.S. and non-U.S. applications pending in our name or available for use by us based on licensing arrangements. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We believe that there will continue to be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain whether any given patent application filed by us or our licensors will result in the issuance of a patent or if any given patent issued to us or our licensors will later be challenged and invalidated. Nor can we be certain whether any given patent that may be issued to us or our licensors will provide any significant proprietary protection to our products and business. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may file additional patent applications and obtain additional patents that may prevent patents being issued to us or our licensors or limit the scope of those patents. Depending upon their filing date, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the patent applications are published, typically eighteen months after their filing date, or patents are issued. Outside the United States, patent applications are confidential until they are published, typically eighteen months after their first filing date. In addition, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several to many months. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that we or our licensors were the first creator of inventions covered by our or our licensors’ pending patent applications or issued patents or that we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions. In addition, because patents have a limited life, subject to potential extensions, patents issued to us or our licensors may have expired prior to or have limited term remaining after the first commercial sale of a related product. As a result, the commercial value of these patents might be limited. The strategic alternatives we are exploring include the sale of our assets, but we may not be able to sell our intellectual property at attractive prices or for any price, or our competitors may challenge our ownership. We may have to engage in litigation to determine the scope and validity of competitors’ patents and proprietary rights, which, if we do not prevail, could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. Competitors may have filed patent applications and obtained patents and may in the future file patent applications and obtain patents relating to our products and technologies. We are aware of competing intellectual property relating to our technologies and products. From time to time we have received communications from third parties claiming to have conflicting rights relating to components of our products and technologies. Regardless of their ultimate merit, any infringement or other intellectual property claims against our products and technologies may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert management attention. If any such claim were successful, we could be required to obtain licenses to a third party’s technologies, patents or other proprietary rights or to their biological or chemical reagents in order to develop and market our products. Moreover, we may choose to voluntarily seek such a license in order to avoid the expense and uncertainty of fully defending our position. In either event, such a license may not be available to us on acceptable terms or on any terms, and we may have to discontinue that portion of our business, or such third party may seek an injunction to prevent us from practicing their proprietary technology. In addition, to the extent we license our intellectual property to other parties, we may incur expenses as a result of contractual agreements in which we indemnify those licensing our technologies against losses incurred if practicing our intellectual property infringes upon the proprietary rights of others. The failure to license any technologies or biological or chemical reagents required to develop or commercialize our technologies or products at reasonable cost may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. 19 Table of Contents We may have to engage in litigation, which could result in substantial cost or distraction, to enforce or defend our patents and which, if we do not prevail, could harm our business and make us more vulnerable to competition. In the future, we may have to engage in litigation to enforce or defend our proprietary rights and patents. To determine who was first to make an invention claimed in a U.S. patent application or patent and thus be entitled to a patent, the USPTO can declare an interference proceeding. In the United States, patents may be revoked or invalidated in court actions or in reexamination proceedings in front of the USPTO. In Europe, patents can be revoked through opposition or nullity proceedings. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial cost or distraction to us. These proceedings could potentially result in an adverse decision as to our or our licensors’ patent applications and patents. We cannot predict the outcome of interference, reexamination, opposition or nullity proceedings or patent litigation that we may become involved with in the future. An adverse result in any of these proceedings could have an adverse effect on our intellectual property position in the technologies to which the patent applications or patents involved in the proceedings are directed and on our business in related areas. If we lose in any such proceeding, our patents or patent applications that are the subject matter of the proceeding may be invalidated or may not be issued as patents. We also may be required to obtain a license from the prevailing party. Our ability to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation is limited. We have a limited ability to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation. Our competitors may independently develop similar or better proprietary information and techniques and disclose them publicly. Also, others may gain access to our trade secrets, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights to our unpatented trade secrets. In addition, confidentiality agreements and other measures may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Failure to protect and control such trade secrets, know-how and innovation could harm our competitive position. Inventions or processes discovered by our outside scientific collaborators or consultants may not become our property, which may affect our competitive position. We have relied on the continued availability of outside scientific collaborators to perform research for us. As these scientific collaborators are not our employees, we have had limited control over their activities. Our arrangements with these collaborators, as well as those with our scientific consultants, provide that any rights we obtain as a result of their research efforts will be subject to the rights of the research institutions for which they work. For these reasons, inventions or processes discovered by our scientific collaborators or consultants may not become our property. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, maintain investor confidence or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, maintain investor confidence and prevent fraud. As part of our examination of our internal systems in response to Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, we have discovered in the past, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that could be improved. None of these issues have risen to the level that we were unable to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls when we were required to do so. We cannot be certain that any measures that we take to improve our internal controls will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. In addition, as a result of our recent restructuring, we have significantly reduced our number of employees and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to retain employees with the requisite expertise to maintain an effective system of internal controls. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause 20 Table of Contents us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We may in the future be exposed to product liability claims, which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Clinical trials or marketing of any of our potential products, including the recently terminated VITAL-1 and VITAL-2 trials of GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer, may expose us to liability claims resulting from the use of our products. These claims might be made by clinical trial participants and associated parties, consumers, health care providers, sellers of our products or others. A claim, particularly resulting from a clinical trial, or a product recall could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. Insurance coverage is increasingly more difficult and costly to obtain or maintain. We currently maintain a certain amount of insurance with respect to each of our clinical trials as well as insurance to reduce our direct exposure to certain other business risks, but may not be able to maintain insurance or obtain sufficient coverage at reasonable rates in the future. As a result, we may be required to assume more risk in the future or make significant expenditures to maintain sufficient levels of insurance. Any inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable cost, or at all, could also result in a breach of terms of our product license agreements or could prevent or inhibit the clinical testing or commercialization of our products or otherwise affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. If we are subject to third-party claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to pay for claims, losses and damages in excess of our insurance limits. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may affect our ability to obtain or maintain future insurance coverage at reasonable costs, if at all. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist activity and other events beyond our control, which could harm our business. Our facilities have, in the past, been subject to electrical blackouts as a result of a shortage of available electrical power. Future blackouts could disrupt the operations of our facilities. Our facilities are located in seismically active regions. We have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business and financial results from a major earthquake, fire, power loss, terrorist activity or other disasters and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. We are unable to predict the effects of any such event, but the effects could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. In addition, we do not carry sufficient insurance to compensate us for actual losses from interruption of our business that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could harm our business. We depend on our key management personnel to implement our restructuring plan, and the loss of these personnel could impair our business. We rely and will continue to rely on our key management personnel. Because all employees are employed at-will, they can leave at any time. The loss of key personnel could harm our business and results of operations. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. We may not be able to continue to retain or attract, if required, the qualified personnel necessary for the implementation of our restructuring plan or development of our business. Although we have no current plans to recruit additional personnel, we may, in the event of turnover of key personnel or if we decide to allocate our resources to the development of new product candidates, need to continue to recruit experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, regulatory, finance, marketing and distribution. If we do not succeed in retaining, or hiring if required, necessary personnel, our business could suffer significantly. In addition, the termination of our VITAL-1 and VITAL-2 trials of GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer and the implementation of our restructuring plan could make it difficult to retain existing or attract new employees. 21 Table of Contents The prices of our common stock and convertible senior notes are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The stock prices of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have historically been highly volatile. Since January 1, 2006, our stock price has fluctuated between a high closing price of $7.98 on March 31, 2006 and a low closing price of $0.10 on October 24, 2008. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, as our convertible senior notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of the notes. Interest rate fluctuations also can affect the price of our convertible senior notes. The following factors, among others, may affect the prices of our common stock and notes: • fluctuations in our financial results; • announcements of potential strategic transactions; • changes in our outstanding indebtedness; • announcements of new collaborative relationships by us or our competitors; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights affecting us or our competitors; • public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies; • fluctuations in price and volume in the stock market in general, or in the trading of the stock of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, that are unrelated to our operating performance; • issuances of securities in equity, debt or other financings or issuances of common stock upon conversion of our convertible senior notes or exercise of warrants; • unforeseen litigation; • sales of common stock by existing stockholders; and • the perception that such issuances by us or sales by existing stockholders could occur. Our stockholders may be diluted by the conversion of outstanding convertible senior notes. As of March 9, 2009, we had $68.3 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes outstanding that convert into our common stock, at a conversion price of $9.10 per share, equal to a conversion rate of 109.8901 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, subject to adjustments for stock dividends, stock splits, and other similar events. The holders of the notes may choose at any time to convert their notes into common stock. The number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes, and therefore the dilution of existing common stockholders, could increase as a result of an event triggering the antidilution rights of the notes, including certain acquisitions in which 10% or more of the consideration paid for our common stock in the transaction is in the form of cash or securities that are not freely tradable. Conversion of our convertible senior notes would result in issuance of additional shares of common stock, diluting existing common stockholders. Our stockholders may be diluted, and the prices of our securities may decrease, by the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants or by future issuances of securities. We may issue additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. Furthermore, substantially all shares of common stock for which our outstanding stock options or warrants are exercisable are, once they have been purchased, eligible for immediate sale in the public market. The issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock or the exercise of stock options or warrants would dilute existing investors and could adversely affect the price of our securities. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards could be limited as a result of issuances of equity securities. To the extent that our taxable income exceeds any current year operating losses, we may use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset income that would otherwise be taxable. However, under the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the amount of benefits from our net operating loss carryforwards may be impaired or limited if we incur a cumulative ownership change of more than 50%, as interpreted by the IRS, over a three year period. As a result, our use of federal net operating loss carryforwards could be limited by the provisions of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, depending upon the timing and amount of additional equity securities that we issue. State net operating loss carryforwards may be similarly limited. Any such disallowances may result in greater tax liabilities than we would incur in the absence of such a limitation and any increased liabilities could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or could limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, debt instruments and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include the adoption of a Stockholder Rights Plan, commonly known as a “poison pill.” Under the Stockholder Rights Plan, we made a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each share of our common stock outstanding as of August 21, 1995 and each share of our common stock issued after that date. In July 2000, we made certain technical changes to amend the plan and extended the term of such plan until 2010. The rights are exercisable only if a person or group purchases 15% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of our common stock . Upon exercise, holders other than the acquirer may purchase our stock at a discount. Our Board of Directors may terminate the rights plan at any time or under certain circumstances redeem the rights. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding such acquisition. These provisions and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in our management or in the control of our company, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. The Committed Equity Financing Facility that we entered into with Kingsbridge in February 2007, or 2007 CEFF, is not available to us because of the current trading price of our common stock. The 2007 CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of three years, shares of our common stock for cash consideration, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. As of December 31, 2008, there were approximately 4.5 million shares remaining that may be sold under the 2007 CEFF. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the 2007 CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum price of $1.75 for our common stock which our common stock was trading substantially below as of March 9, 2009; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; effectiveness of the registration statement filed by us with the SEC; and the continued listing of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the 2007 CEFF if it obtains actual knowledge that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition. If we are unable to access funds through the 2007 CEFF, or if the 2007 CEFF is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms, or at all. Accounting pronouncements may impact our reported results of operations and financial position. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new pronouncements or the application of existing pronouncements to changes in our business could significantly alter our reported financial statements and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, and complying with these may cause us to incur significant costs. Research, product development and manufacturing activities have involved the controlled use of hazardous materials, and we may incur significant costs as a result of the need to comply with numerous laws and regulations. We are subject to laws and regulations enforced by the FDA, the DEA, the CDHS, foreign health authorities and other regulatory statutes including the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of our products, materials used to develop and manufacture our products, and resulting waste products. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury, by accident or as the result of intentional acts from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any resulting liability could exceed our resources. We do not carry insurance for potential exposures which could result from these risks. We may also be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. We are also subject to laws generally applicable to businesses, including but not limited to, federal, state and local regulations relating to wage and hour matters, employee classification, mandatory healthcare benefits, unlawful workplace discrimination and whistle-blowing. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with any regulation applicable to our business or any whistle-blowing claim, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation, regulatory action or otherwise harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 