ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors in Cell Genesys, Inc. should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below may not be the only ones relating to our company. This description includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2007. Additional risks that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, results of operation, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects and the trading price of our common stock and our abilities to repay our convertible notes could be harmed as a result of any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, and our other filings from time to time with the SEC. Risks Related to Our Company Our products are in developmental stage, are not approved for commercial sale and may never receive regulatory approval or become commercially viable. All of our potential cancer immunotherapies and oncolytic virus therapies are in research and development. We have not generated any revenues from the sale of products, and we do not expect to generate any revenues from product sales for at least the next several years. Our products currently under development will require significant additional research and development efforts, including extensive preclinical and clinical testing and regulatory approval, prior to commercial use. There are many reasons that potential products that appear promising at an early stage of research or development do not result in commercially successful products. Clinical trials may be suspended or terminated if safety or efficacy issues are identified, if our investigators or we fail to comply with regulations governing clinical trials or for other reasons. Our research and development efforts may not be successful. Even if developed, our products may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully manufactured in commercial quantities at reasonable cost, or successfully introduced and marketed at prices that would permit us to operate profitably. Clinical testing is a lengthy, costly and uncertain process that may not demonstrate that our cancer immunotherapies and oncolytic virus therapies are safe or effective, or result in regulatory approval. Our GVAX cancer immunotherapies and oncolytic virus therapies are currently being tested in human clinical trials to determine their safety and efficacy. Clinical trials are very costly and time-consuming, especially the larger Phase 3 clinical trials such as the VITAL-1 and VITAL-2 trials of our GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer. The VITAL-1 and VITAL-2 trials of our GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer are our first Phase 3 clinical trials. Although we have recently completed patient recruitment for the VITAL-1 trial, we cannot be certain if and when any of our current clinical trials will be successfully completed. Because our programs use new technologies, existing preclinical and clinical data on the safety and efficacy of our programs is limited. The results of preclinical or earlier stage clinical trials do not necessarily predict safety or efficacy in humans, and our products in later stage clinical trials may fail to show desired safety and efficacy, despite having progressed through preclinical or early clinical trials. Serious and potentially life-threatening side effects may be discovered during preclinical and clinical testing of our potential products or thereafter. We, the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, foreign regulatory authorities or the Institutional Review Boards at our research institutions may suspend or terminate any clinical trials of our products at any time, and we cannot guarantee that we will be permitted to undertake additional human clinical trials for any of our products. Even if clinical trials are successful, we might not obtain regulatory approval for any indication. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in many different ways, and the FDA or foreign regulatory officials could interpret data that we consider promising differently, which could delay or prevent regulatory approval. Moreover, the degree of regulatory risk as well as the commercialization risk is generally greater for products based on new technologies, such as our GVAX cancer immunotherapies and oncolytic virus therapies. 18 Table of Contents We also cannot guarantee that adequate numbers of patients can be recruited for our clinical trials. Many factors affect patient enrollment in clinical trials, including, but not limited to: • the size of the patient population; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; • the willingness of local patients to participate; • the eligibility criteria for the trial; • competing clinical trials; and • new therapies approved for the conditions that we are investigating. In addition to delays in patient enrollment, other unforeseen developments could prevent or delay completion of a clinical trial and increase our costs, which could also prevent or delay filing or approval of marketing applications and/or prevent or delay any eventual commercial sale of the therapy that is the subject of the trial. The delay, suspension or termination of a clinical trial could harm our business and future prospects. Such developments include, but are not limited to: • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence or continue a study; • delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • competition with ongoing clinical trials; • manufacturing delays or limitations on manufacturing capacity; • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; • uncertain dosing issues; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • failure by us or our investigators to comply with the FDA or other health authority regulations governing clinical trials; • an inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; and • lack of prior experience of regulatory agencies with our new technologies. Each of our two Phase 3 clinical trials of GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer involves a comparison to a Taxotere chemotherapy regimen, which is the currently approved standard of care for this patient group. However, there can be no assurance that this chemotherapy regimen will continue to be commonly used to treat these patients in the future. Should another therapy be shown to be more effective than the Taxotere chemotherapy regimen, we may need to conduct additional comparative clinical trials in the future. The delay, suspension or termination of a clinical trial for any reason could harm our business and future prospects. Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs and devices could prevent us from conducting our clinical trials or selling our products in foreign markets, which may impair our operating results and financial condition. For development and marketing of drugs and biologics outside the United States, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. The time required to obtain approvals in some countries outside the United States may be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval, and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA 19 Table of Contents does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain required approvals could impair our ability to conduct clinical trials in foreign markets or commercially develop foreign markets for our products and may harm our business and future prospects. We will need substantial additional funds to continue operations, and our ability to generate funds depends on many factors beyond our control. We will need substantial additional funds for existing and future preclinical and clinical trials, to continue research and development activities, for lease obligations related to our manufacturing and headquarter facilities, for principal and interest payments related to our debt financing obligations, for potential settlements with tax authorities and to establish marketing capabilities for any products we may develop. We will need to raise additional capital to further fund our operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase as a result of, many factors, including, but not limited to: • the progress and scope of our internally funded research, development, clinical, manufacturing and commercialization activities; • our ability to establish new collaborations and the terms of those collaborations; • competing technological and market developments; • the time and cost of regulatory approvals; • the extent to which we choose to commercialize our future products through our own sales and marketing capabilities; • our ability to reach favorable resolutions with respect to potential tax assessments; • the costs we incur in obtaining, defending and enforcing patent and other proprietary rights or gaining the freedom to operate under the patents of others; • our success in acquiring and integrating complementary products, technologies or businesses; and • the extent to which we choose to expand and develop our manufacturing capacities, including manufacturing capacities necessary to meet potential commercial requirements. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research, development, manufacturing or clinical activities or be required to sell or merge the company or otherwise substantially modify or cease some or all of our current operations. We plan to raise additional funds through additional equity or debt financings, collaborative business relationships, or otherwise, but we may not be able to do any of the foregoing on favorable terms, or at all. Because of our capital requirements, we will need to raise additional funds. From time to time, we may seek to access the public or private debt and equity markets. We also may seek to raise additional capital through outlicensing technologies or third-party collaborations. If adequate funds are not available on favorable terms, or at all, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research, development, manufacturing or clinical activities. Alternatively, we may need to seek funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to relinquish rights to technologies or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. These arrangements could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow or future prospects. Currently, we do not have collaborative partners for the further development of our 20 Table of Contents GVAX cancer immunotherapies. Although we are in active discussions with potential partners for our GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer, we may not be successful in entering into collaborative partnerships on favorable terms, if at all. Certain of our oncolytic virus therapy products are subject to future commercialization rights belonging to Novartis, which at its option may provide further development funding for these products. However, we can give no assurance that our alliance with Novartis will continue, as Novartis periodically has the option of terminating the alliance at its discretion. Also, there is no assurance that Novartis will provide further development funding. Our efforts to raise capital through such outlicensing activities may fail. Failure to enter into new corporate relationships may harm our business. The successful growth of our business may depend, in part, on our ability to find third-party collaborators to assist or share in the costs of product development. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of our proprietary product candidates may include the formation of collaborative arrangements with third parties. Potential third parties include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and other entities. Third party collaborators may assist us in: • funding or performing research, preclinical development, clinical trials and manufacturing; • seeking and obtaining regulatory approvals; and • successfully commercializing existing and future product candidates. If we are not able to establish further collaboration agreements, we may be required to undertake product development and commercialization at our own expense. Such an undertaking may limit the number of product candidates that we will be able to develop, significantly increase our capital requirements and place additional strain on our internal resources. Our failure to enter into additional collaborations could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or future prospects. In addition, our dependence on licensing, collaboration and other agreements with third parties may subject us to a number of risks. These agreements may not be on terms that ultimately prove favorable to us and may require us to relinquish certain rights in our technologies and product candidates. To the extent we agree to work exclusively with one collaborator in a given area, our opportunities to collaborate with other entities could be curtailed. Lengthy negotiations with potential new collaborators may lead to delays in the research, development or commercialization of product candidates. The decision by our collaborators to pursue alternative technologies or the failure of our collaborators to develop or commercialize successfully any product candidate to which they have obtained rights from us could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or future prospects. We expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations and may not become profitable in the future. We have incurred an accumulated deficit since our inception. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $491.1 million. Our accumulated deficit would be substantially higher absent the gains we have realized on sales of our Abgenix common stock. We expect to incur substantial operating losses for at least the next several years and potentially longer. This is due primarily to the expansion of development programs, clinical trials and manufacturing activities and, to a lesser extent, general and administrative expenses, at a time when we have yet to realize any product revenues. We also have substantial lease obligations related to our manufacturing and headquarter facilities. We expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and that these fluctuations may be substantial. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully develop, manufacture, commercialize or market any products, or that we will ever achieve positive cash flow or profitability. 21 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could harm our financial condition. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $145.0 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding convertible notes due in 2011. Our annual interest payment on this note is approximately $4.5 million. Our substantial indebtedness could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the convertible notes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to raise or borrow additional funds for future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate requirements; and • limit our flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. We plan to use potential future operating losses and our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards to offset taxable income from revenue generated from operations or corporate collaborations. However, our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards could be limited as a result of issuances of equity securities. We plan to use our current year operating losses to offset taxable income from any revenue generated from operations or corporate collaborations. To the extent that our taxable income exceeds any current year operating losses, we plan to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset income that would otherwise be taxable. However, under the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the amount of benefits from our net operating loss carryforwards may be impaired or limited if we incur a cumulative ownership change of more than 50%, as interpreted by the IRS, over a three year period. As a result, our use of federal net operating loss carryforwards could be limited by the provisions of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, depending upon the timing and amount of additional equity securities that we issue. State net operating loss carryforwards may be similarly limited. Any such disallowances may result in greater tax liabilities than we would incur in the absence of such a limitation and any increased liabilities could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our ability to manufacture our products is uncertain, which may delay or impair our ability to develop, test and commercialize our products. We have built our own manufacturing facility for the manufacture of products for clinical trials and to support the potential commercial launch of our GVAX cancer immunotherapy product candidates, but the successful manufacture of our potential products is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The manufacturing techniques and process controls, as well as the product release specifications, required for our GVAX cancer immunotherapies and oncolytic virus therapies are more complex and less well-established than those required for other biopharmaceutical products, such as small molecules, therapeutic proteins and monoclonal antibodies. We may not be able to develop the necessary techniques and process controls in a timely manner, if at all, to manufacture and evaluate our products effectively to meet the demands of regulatory agencies, clinical testing and commercial production. Advances in manufacturing techniques may render our facility and equipment inadequate or obsolete. Our ability to manufacture products is also subject to various licensing and regulatory requirements. Our manufacturing facility is subject to the licensing requirements of, and inspection by, the FDA, United States Drug Enforcement Administration, the California Department of Health Services and foreign regulatory authorities. Failure to obtain or maintain these licenses or to meet the inspection criteria of these agencies would disrupt our manufacturing processes and adversely affect our ongoing clinical trials and our business and future prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We operate our manufacturing facility according to current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations for the manufacture of products for clinical trials. Our manufacturing facility is subject to inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies to ensure compliance with cGMP. Any failure to follow and document our adherence to such cGMP regulations or 22 Table of Contents satisfy other manufacturing and product release regulatory requirements may lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study, may result in the termination or hold on a clinical study, or may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulations may also result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. We have at times encountered and/or may in the future encounter problems with the following: • our ability to “scale-up” our manufacturing facility by a significant factor over the current level of production within our planned timelines and budget; • achieving consistent and acceptable production yield and costs; • meeting product release specifications; • shortages of qualified personnel; • shortages of raw materials; • shortages of key contractors or contract manufacturers; • ongoing compliance with cGMP regulations and other expectations from the FDA and other regulatory bodies; • equipment shortage or malfunction; and • inability to validate new equipment or processes in a timely manner. Any of these factors could harm our product development, delay commercialization, or prevent us from producing our products in a sufficient quantity to meet the requirements for product launch or future demand. If we are unable to manufacture our products for any reason, our options for outsourcing manufacturing are currently limited. We are unaware of available contract manufacturing facilities on a worldwide basis in which our GVAX immunotherapy product candidates can be manufactured under cGMP regulations, a requirement for all pharmaceutical products. It would take a substantial period of time for a contract manufacturing facility that has not been producing our particular products to begin successfully producing them under cGMP regulations. Logistical arrangements for wide-spread distribution of our products for clinical and commercial purposes may prove to be impractical or prohibitively expensive, which could hinder our ability to commercialize our products. Due to our reliance on clinical trial arrangements with public and private medical institutions, clinical research organizations, other vendors, and individual investigators, we may not be able to directly control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of some of our clinical trials. We have arrangements with a number of public and private medical institutions, clinical research organizations, other vendors, and individual investigators, for the conduct of human clinical trials for our GVAX cancer immunotherapy programs and oncolytic virus therapies. In some cases, trials are conducted by institutions without our direct control or monitoring. The early termination of any of these clinical trial arrangements, the failure of these institutions to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials, or the reliance upon results of trials that we have not directly conducted or monitored could hinder the progress of our clinical trial programs and our development programs. If any of these relationships are terminated, the clinical trials might not be completed, and the result might not be valuable. 23 Table of Contents If our proposed products are not effectively protected by issued patents we will be more vulnerable to competitors and our business could be harmed. We rely heavily on the development and protection of our intellectual property portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, we had 392 U.S. and non-U.S. patents issued or granted to us or available for use by us based on licensing arrangements and 268 U.S. and non-U.S. applications pending in our name or available for use by us based on licensing arrangements. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We believe that there will continue to be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain whether any given patent application filed by us or our licensors will result in the issuance of a patent or if any given patent issued to us or our licensors will later be challenged and invalidated. Nor can we be certain whether any given patent that may be issued to us or our licensors will provide any significant proprietary protection to our products and business. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may file additional patent applications and obtain additional patents that may prevent patents being issued to us or our licensors or limit the scope of those patents. Depending upon their filing date, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the patent applications are published, typically eighteen months after their filing date, or patents are issued. Outside the United States, patent applications are confidential until they are published, typically eighteen months after their first filing date. In addition, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several to many months. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that we or our licensors were the first creator of inventions covered by our or our licensors’ pending patent applications or issued patents or that we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions. In addition, because patents have a limited life, subject to potential extensions, patents issued to us or our licensors may have expired prior to or have limited term remaining after the first commercial sale of a related product. As a result, the commercial value of these patents to our products and business might be limited. Our freedom to operate may be challenged by others and we may have to engage in litigation to determine the scope and validity of competitors’ patents and proprietary rights, which, if we do not prevail, could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. Our commercial success depends in part on not infringing the patents or proprietary rights of others, not breaching licenses granted to us and ensuring that we have the necessary freedom to operate, to develop and commercialize our products. Competitors may have filed patent applications and obtained patents and may in the future file patent applications and obtain patents relating to our products and technologies. We are aware of competing intellectual property relating to both our GVAX cancer immunotherapy and oncolytic virus therapy technologies and products. While we believe we have the necessary freedom to operate for both of these programs and are aware of no valid issued patents that we believe would prevent us from developing and commercializing the products we are currently developing in these programs, others may challenge our position. From time to time we have received communications from third parties claiming to have conflicting rights relating to components of our products and technologies. Regardless of their ultimate merit, any infringement or other intellectual property claims against our products and technologies may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert management attention. If any such claim were successful, we could be required to obtain licenses to a third party’s technologies, patents or other proprietary rights or to their biological or chemical reagents in order to develop and market our products. Moreover, we may choose to voluntarily seek such a license in order to avoid the expense and uncertainty of fully defending our position. In either event, such a license may not be available to us on acceptable terms or on any terms, and we may have to discontinue that portion of our business, or such third party may seek an injunction to prevent us from practicing their proprietary technology. In addition, to the extent we license our intellectual property to other parties, we may incur expenses as a result of contractual agreements in which we indemnify those licensing our technologies against losses incurred if practicing our intellectual property infringes upon the proprietary rights of others. The failure to license any technologies or biological or chemical reagents required to develop or commercialize our technologies or products at reasonable cost may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. 24 Table of Contents We may have to engage in litigation, which could result in substantial cost or distraction, to enforce or defend our patents and which, if we do not prevail, could harm our business and make us more vulnerable to competition. In the future, we may have to engage in litigation to enforce or defend our proprietary rights and patents. To determine who was first to make an invention claimed in a U.S. patent application or patent and thus be entitled to a patent, the USPTO can declare an interference proceeding. In Europe, patents can be revoked through opposition or nullity proceedings. In the United States, patents may be revoked or invalidated in court actions or in reexamination proceedings in front of the USPTO. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial cost or distraction to us. These proceedings could potentially result in an adverse decision as to our or our licensors’ patent applications and patents. We cannot predict the outcome of interference, reexamination, opposition or nullity proceedings or patent litigation that we may become involved with in the future. An adverse result in any of these proceedings could have an adverse effect on our intellectual property position in the technologies to which the patent applications or patents involved in the proceedings are directed and on our business in related areas. If we lose in any such proceeding, our patents or patent applications that are the subject matter of the proceeding may be invalidated or may not be issued as patents. We also may be required to obtain a license from the prevailing party in order to continue the portion of our business that relates to the proceeding. Such license may not be available to us on acceptable terms or on any terms, and we may have to discontinue that portion of our business. Our competitive position may be impaired by our limited ability to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation. We have a limited ability to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation. Our competitors may independently develop similar or better proprietary information and techniques and disclose them publicly. Also, others may gain access to our trade secrets, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights to our unpatented trade secrets. In addition, confidentiality agreements and other measures may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Failure to protect and control such trade secrets, know-how and innovation could harm our competitive position. Inventions or processes discovered by our outside scientific collaborators or consultants may not become our property, which may affect our competitive position. We rely on the continued availability of outside scientific collaborators to perform research for us. These relationships generally may be terminated at any time by the collaborator, typically by giving 30 days notice. These scientific collaborators are not our employees. As a result, we have limited control over their activities and can expect that only limited amounts of their time will be dedicated to our activities. Our arrangements with these collaborators, as well as those with our scientific consultants, provide that any rights we obtain as a result of their research efforts will be subject to the rights of the research institutions for which they work. In addition, some of these collaborators have consulting or other advisory arrangements with other entities that may conflict with their obligations to us. For these reasons, inventions or processes discovered by our scientific collaborators or consultants may not become our property. Our competitors may develop therapies for the diseases that we are targeting that are safer, more effective, less expensive, or otherwise more advanced than ours or they may commercialize competing products more rapidly than we do, which may adversely affect our competitive position. Many companies pursue programs for the treatment of cancer. Our competitors include large biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, such as Amgen Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Genentech, Inc., Novartis AG, Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. and sanofi-aventis Group, which have greater experience and resources than we do in developing products, undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials of new pharmaceutical products, 25 Table of Contents obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products, and manufacturing and marketing new therapies. We also compete with other biotechnology companies, which have prostate cancer immunotherapy products in various stages of clinical development, such as Dendreon Corporation and Onyvax, Ltd. Some competitors are pursuing product development strategies that are similar to ours, particularly with respect to our cancer immunotherapy and oncolytic virus therapy programs. Certain products of our competitors are in more advanced stages of product development, clinical trials and regulatory filings. We compete with other companies and institutions for clinical trial participants, which could reduce our ability to recruit participants for our clinical trials, delay clinical trials and adversely affect our ability to bring a product to market prior to our competitors or in our projected timeline. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than ours, or that would render our technology and products less competitive or obsolete. Our competitive position and those of our competitors can vary based on the performance of products in clinical trials. In addition, our competitors may obtain patent protection or FDA or other regulatory approvals and commercialize products more rapidly than we do, which may impact future sales of any products that we are able to commercialize. We also may not have the access that some of our competitors have to materials necessary to support the research, development or manufacture of planned therapies. If we are permitted by the FDA or other regulatory agencies to commence commercial sales of products, we will also be competing with respect to marketing capabilities and manufacturing efficiency, areas in which we have limited or no experience. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based, among other things, on: • product efficacy; • price; • safety; • severity of any side effects compared to competing products; • reliability; • availability; • availability of third-party coverage and reimbursement; • patent protection; and • sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our competitive position also depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, develop proprietary products or processes, and secure sufficient funding for the often-lengthy period between product conception and commercial sales. The commercial success of any products that we may develop will depend upon the degree of market acceptance of our products among physicians, patients, health care payers, private health insurers and the medical community. Our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop will be highly dependent upon the extent to which these products gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations, and the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate adequate product revenues, if at all, and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of our products in comparison to competing products; • the existence of any significant side effects, as well as their severity in comparison to any competing products; 26 Table of Contents • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer our products for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. To the extent we depend on strategic partners to sell, market or distribute our products, we will have reduced control over the sales, marketing and distribution of our future products. We have no experience in sales, marketing or distribution of biopharmaceutical products. We may in the future rely on the sales, marketing and distribution expertise of potential corporate partners for our initial products. If we choose to rely on strategic partners for the sale, marketing or distribution of our future products, we will have less control over the sales, marketing and distribution of our products and will depend heavily upon their abilities and dedication to our products. These future strategic partnerships may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or they could harm our business. We may in the future be exposed to product liability claims, which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Clinical trials or marketing of any of our potential products may expose us to liability claims resulting from the use of our products. These claims might be made by clinical trial participants and associated parties, consumers, health care providers, sellers of our products or others. A claim, particularly resulting from a clinical trial, or a product recall could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. Insurance coverage is increasingly more difficult and costly to obtain or maintain. We currently maintain a certain amount of insurance with respect to each of our clinical trials as well as insurance to reduce our direct exposure to certain other business risks, but may not be able to maintain insurance or obtain sufficient coverage at reasonable rates, as premiums are generally increasing and coverage is narrowing in scope. As a result, we may be required to assume more risk in the future or make significant expenditures to maintain our current levels of insurance. Any inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable cost, or at all, could also result in a breach of terms of our product license agreements or could prevent or inhibit the clinical testing or commercialization of our products or otherwise affect our business, results of operation, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. If we are subject to third-party claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to pay for claims, losses and damages in excess of our insurance limits. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may affect our ability to obtain or maintain future insurance coverage at reasonable costs, if at all. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and future prospects could suffer as a result of future strategic acquisitions and investments. We may engage in future acquisitions or investments that could dilute our existing stockholders or cause us to incur contingent liabilities, commitments, debt or significant expense. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we evaluate potential acquisitions or investments in related businesses, products or technologies. 27 Table of Contents Future acquisitions could subject us to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • the loss of key personnel and business relationships; • difficulties associated with assimilating and integrating the new personnel, intellectual property and operations of the acquired companies; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the expense associated with maintenance of diverse standards, controls, procedures, employees and clients; • the diversion of managerial, financial and other resources from the development of our own proprietary technology; and • our inability to generate revenue from acquired technology sufficient to meet our objectives in undertaking the acquisition or even to offset the associated acquisition and maintenance costs. As a result of such risks, an acquisition or investment could harm our business, results of operation, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist activity and other events beyond our control, which could harm our business. Our facilities have, in the past, been subject to electrical blackouts as a result of a shortage of available electrical power. Future blackouts could disrupt the operations of our facilities. Most of our facilities are located in seismically active regions. We have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business and financial results from a major earthquake, fire, power loss, terrorist activity or other disasters and do not have a recovery plan for such disasters. We are unable to predict the effects of any such event, but the effects could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. In addition, we do not carry sufficient insurance to compensate us for actual losses from interruption of our business that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could harm our business. We depend on our key technical and management personnel to advance our technology, and the loss of these personnel could impair the development of our products. We rely and will continue to rely on our key management and scientific staff. Because all employees are employed at-will, they can leave at any time. The loss of key personnel or the failure in our industry to recruit necessary additional qualified personnel could harm our business and results of operations. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. We will need to continue to recruit experts in the areas of clinical testing, manufacturing, regulatory, finance, marketing and distribution and to develop additional expertise in our existing personnel. If we do not succeed in hiring or retaining necessary personnel or developing this expertise, our business could suffer significantly. Various materials that we use are purchased from single qualified suppliers, which could result in our inability to secure sufficient materials to conduct our business. Critical materials used in our manufacturing operations are subject to a supplier qualification program. In the event that a material or supplier is no longer appropriate to support our cGMP operations, we may incur significant additional expenses to find and qualify alternate materials and/or suppliers. Because the suppliers of key components and materials for a product must be carefully tested, qualified and named in our filings with the FDA and other health authorities, significant delays can occur if a new supplier is required. There is no guarantee that the FDA or other health authorities will deem the alternative materials and/or suppliers to be comparable, which may require us to perform additional and/or extended clinical studies and could delay product approval. 28 Table of Contents In addition, some of the materials which we purchase for use in our manufacturing operations are sole-sourced, meaning only one known supplier exists or is qualified for our use. In the event of a significant interruption of sole-sourced supplies, the quantity of our inventory may not be adequate to complete our clinical trials or to launch our potential products. The prices of our common stock and convertible senior notes are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The stock prices of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have historically been highly volatile. Since January 1, 2005, our stock price has fluctuated between a high closing price of $7.98 on March 31, 2006 and a low closing price of $1.81 on January 31, 2008. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, as our convertible senior notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of the notes. Also, interest rate fluctuations can affect the price of our convertible senior notes. The following factors, among others, may affect the prices of our common stock and notes: • announcements of data from, or material developments in, our clinical trials or those of our competitors, including delays in the commencement, progress or completion of a clinical trial; • fluctuations in our financial results; • announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by us or our competitors, including innovations or products by our competitors that may require us to redesign, and therefore delay, our clinical trials to account for those innovations or products; • announcements of changes in governmental regulation affecting us or our competitors; • announcements of regulatory approval, disapproval, delays or suspensions of our or our competitors’ products; • announcements of new collaborative relationships by us or our competitors; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights affecting us or our competitors; • public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies; • material developments related to our minority interest in Ceregene, Inc.; • fluctuations in price and volume in the stock market in general, or in the trading of the stock of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, that are unrelated to our operating performance; • issuances of securities in equity, debt or other financings or issuances of common stock upon conversion of our convertible senior notes or exercise of warrants; • the favorable or unfavorable resolution of potential tax assessments; • unforeseen litigation; • sales of common stock by existing stockholders; and • the perception that such issuances by us or sales by existing stockholders could occur. Our stockholders may be diluted by the conversion of outstanding convertible senior notes. In October and November 2004 we issued and sold $145.0 million aggregate principal amount of notes, which are convertible into our common stock, initially at the conversion price of $9.10 per share, equal to a conversion rate of 109.8901 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, subject to adjustments for stock 29 Table of Contents dividends, stock splits, and other similar events. The holders of the notes may choose at any time to convert their notes into common stock. The number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes, and therefore the dilution of existing common stockholders, could increase as a result of an event triggering the antidilution rights of the notes, including certain acquisitions in which 10% or more of the consideration paid for our common stock in the transaction is in the form of cash or securities that are not freely tradable. Conversion of our convertible senior notes would result in issuance of additional shares of common stock, diluting existing common stockholders. Our stockholders may be diluted, and the prices of our securities may decrease, by the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants or by future issuances of securities. We may issue additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. Furthermore, substantially all shares of common stock for which our outstanding stock options or warrants are exercisable are, once they have been purchased, eligible for immediate sale in the public market. The issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock or the exercise of stock options or warrants would dilute existing investors and could adversely affect the price of our securities. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or could limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, debt instruments and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include the adoption of a Stockholder Rights Plan, commonly known as a “poison pill.” Under the Stockholder Rights Plan, we made a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each share of our common stock outstanding as of August 21, 1995 and each share of our common stock issued after that date. In July 2000, we made certain technical changes to amend the plan and extended the term of such plan until 2010. The rights are exercisable only if an acquirer purchases 15% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of our common stock. Upon exercise, holders other than the acquirer may purchase our stock at a discount. Our Board of Directors may terminate the rights plan at any time or under certain circumstances redeem the rights. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding such acquisition. These provisions and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in our management or in the control of our company, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. The Committed Equity Financing Facility, or CEFF, that we entered into with Kingsbridge in February 2007 may not be available to us if we elect to make a drawdown, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to Kingsbridge, and may result in dilution to our stockholders. The 2007 CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of three years, shares of our common stock for cash consideration, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. As of December 31, 2007, there were approximately 4.5 million shares remaining that may be sold under this CEFF. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; effectiveness of the registration statement filed by us with the SEC; and the continued listing of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF if it obtains actual knowledge that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition. If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if the CEFF is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms, or at all. 30 Table of Contents We are entitled, in certain circumstances, to deliver a blackout notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the registration statement filed by us with the SEC and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares under the registration statement. We may deliver a blackout notice, for example, at a time when we believe there may be a potential material development, premature disclosure of which would not be in the interests of our company or stockholders. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 30 calendar days following the settlement of a drawdown, or if the registration statement is not effective in circumstances not permitted by the agreement, then we must make a payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated on the basis of the number of shares held by Kingsbridge (exclusive of shares that Kingsbridge may hold pursuant to exercise of the Kingsbridge warrant) and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. If we continue to sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment, it will dilute the holdings of our current stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we draw down under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to 10% from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will cause even more dilution than if our share price were stable or increasing, and may further decrease our share price. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, maintain investor confidence or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, maintain investor confidence and prevent fraud. As our operations have grown, as well as part of our examination of our internal systems in response to Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, we have discovered in the past, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that could be improved. None of these issues have risen to the level that we were unable to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls when we were required to do so. We cannot be certain that any measures that we take to improve our internal controls will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Accounting pronouncements may impact our results of operations and financial position. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new pronouncements or the application of existing pronouncements to changes in our business could significantly alter our financial statements and results of operations. For example, at its July 25, 2007 meeting, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, agreed to issue for comment a proposed FASB Staff Position, FSP, addressing convertible instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including instruments commonly referred to as Instrument C from EITF Issue No. 90-19, Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash upon Conversion, requiring the issuer to settle the principal amount of an Instrument C Security in cash and the conversion spread in cash or net shares at the issuer’s option. We understand that the proposed FSP would require bifurcation of the conversion option from the debt instrument, classification of the conversion option in equity, and then accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to result in additional interest expense being reported in the income statement. Since we cannot predict the outcome of the final FSP, we believe that if the FASB determines that we should account for Instrument C securities in the manner described above, the accounting for convertible senior notes would be 31 Table of Contents affected and the impact to our financial statements and results of operations would need to be evaluated to determine the impact, if any. Risks Related to Our Industry In order for our products to be offered to the public, they must undergo extensive clinical testing and receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies, which could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products. Human therapeutic products must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other premarket approval procedures by the FDA and similar authorities in foreign countries. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of potential products and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product and its formulations. Initiation of clinical trials requires approval by health authorities. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or to patients under the supervision of a qualified principal investigator. Depending on the country in which the study is conducted, clinical trials are subject to compliance with the FDA and the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use Good Clinical Practices and the European Clinical Trials Directive under protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor safety and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Other national, foreign and local regulations may also apply. The developer of the drug must provide information relating to the characterization and controls of the product before administration to the patients participating in the clinical trials. This requires developing approved assays of the product to test before administration to the patient and during the conduct of the trial. In addition, developers of pharmaceutical products must provide periodic data regarding clinical trials to the FDA and other health authorities, and these health authorities or our Independent Data Monitoring Committees may issue a clinical hold upon, or terminate, a trial if they do not believe, or cannot confirm, that the trial can be conducted without unreasonable risk to the trial participants. The FDA or foreign health authorities could issue a clinical hold with respect to any of our clinical trials in the future. The results of the preclinical testing and clinical testing, together with chemistry, manufacturing and controls information, are submitted to the FDA and other health authorities in the form of a new drug application for a pharmaceutical product and in the form of a biologics license application for a biological product, requesting approval to commence commercial sales. In responding to a new drug application or a biologics license application, the FDA or foreign health authorities may grant marketing approvals, request additional information or further research, or deny the application if it determines that the application does not satisfy its regulatory approval criteria. Regulatory approval of a new drug application, biologics license application, or supplement is never guaranteed, and the approval process can take several years and is extremely expensive. The FDA and foreign health authorities have substantial discretion in the drug and biologics approval processes. Despite the time and expense incurred, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical, clinical or manufacturing-related studies. Approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and if granted may not cover all the clinical indications for which we may seek approval. Also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of warnings, precautions or contraindications with respect to conditions of use. In addition, during the course of the development and testing of human therapeutic products, improvements may be made and may have been made to processes, formulations or manufacturing methods or employ different manufacturing facilities. Such changes may be made to improve the product’s potential efficacy, make it easier to manufacture at scale, reduce variability, improve ability to meet specification, or for other reasons. As a result, certain of the products that are currently being tested in clinical trials are not identical to those used in previous clinical trials from which clinical data have been previously reported or may vary throughout the course of a clinical trial. Certain studies may be required in order to demonstrate the comparability of the products if additional manufacturing changes are introduced. There is no guarantee that the results of studies using the current versions of the products will be as successful as the results of earlier studies conducted using different versions of the products. 32 Table of Contents Even if our products are approved by regulatory authorities, if we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval preclinical, manufacturing, clinical and safety data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products including unanticipated adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturer or manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, additional clinical trials, additional marketing application requirements, voluntary or mandatory recall, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures or detention, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, and complying with these may cause us to incur significant costs. Our research, product development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, and we may incur significant costs as a result of the need to comply with numerous laws and regulations. We are subject to laws and regulations enforced by the FDA, the DEA, the CDHS, foreign health authorities and other regulatory statutes including the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of our products, materials used to develop and manufacture our products, and resulting waste products. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury, by accident or as the result of intentional acts from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any resulting liability could exceed our resources. We do not carry insurance for potential exposures which could result from these risks. We may also be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. The continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare may restrict pricing of our products and reimbursement from third party payers, which may reduce demand for and the profitability of our products. Because of the considerable pressure to reduce the cost of biotechnology and pharmaceutical products, there is uncertainty related to the extent to which third-party payers will cover and pay for newly approved therapies. Our potential products represent a new mode of therapy, and while the cost-benefit ratio of the products may be favorable, we expect that the costs associated with our products will be substantial. Acceptance and sales of our future products will depend in part upon coverage and third party payment amounts from third-party payers, including government agencies, private health care insurers and other health care payers, such as health maintenance organizations, and self-insured employee plans. Reimbursement from these organizations may become more restrictive in the future. Our proposed products may not be considered cost-effective by third-party payers. Insurance coverage might not be provided by third-party payers at all or may be provided only after substantial delay. Even if such coverage is provided, the approved third-party payment amounts might not be sufficient to permit widespread acceptance of our products. Any such cost control initiatives could lessen our ability to commercialize our products, decrease the price that we would receive for products that are commercialized, if any, and may impede the ability of patients using our products to obtain reimbursement under their insurance programs. 33 Table of Contents The pricing of our future products in the United States and elsewhere may also be influenced in part by government restrictions on the pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement more rigorous provisions relating to government payment levels. While we cannot predict whether the government will adopt any such legislative or regulatory proposals, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could impair our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 