Risk Factors.” Also, these statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements. In this report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Adept,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Adept Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. This report contains trademarks and trade names of Adept and other companies. Adept has 140 trademarks of which 15 are registered trademarks, some of which include the Adept Technology logo, including (among others): AIM®, FireBlox®, HexSight®, Adept Cobra 600™, Adept Cobra 800™, Adept Python™ Linear Modules, Adept SmartServo™, AdeptOne™, AdeptSix™, AdeptViper™ and AdeptSight™. ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are a global, leading provider of intelligent robotics systems and services that provide high performance and economic value throughout the production life cycle or automated procedure, enabling our customers to achieve precision, speed, quality and productivity in their assembly, handling, packaging, testing and other automated processes. With almost 25 years of operating expertise, Adept has been a pioneer in the robotics industry. Our robotics solutions are targeted at applications and processes that require precision, flexibility and high productivity. Through sales to systems integrators, original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) partners and end-user companies, we provide specialized, cost-effective robotics systems and services to markets including high speed packaged goods, life sciences, disk drive/electronics and semiconductor; as well as to traditional industrial markets, including machine tool automation and automotive electronics. We utilize our portfolio of high-performance motion controllers, application development software, vision-guidance technology and high-reliability robot mechanisms to deliver automation solutions that meet our customers’ increasingly complex manufacturing and automation requirements. We offer our customers comprehensive and tailored automation systems that reduce the time and cost to design, engineer and launch products into high-volume production or to perform repetitive tasks requiring a high degree of precision. The benefits of Adept automation products include increased manufacturing flexibility for future product generations, less customized engineering and reduced dependence on production engineers. Our product range currently includes application software, integrated real-time vision and multi-axis motion controls, machine vision systems and software, industrial robots, and advanced vision-based flexible parts feeders. Our core offering is our motion controls systems and application software, which we generally sell in combination with our own vision-guidance technology and/or our or third parties’ robot mechanisms. Our vision guidance technology is tightly integrated with our motion controls technology, and this is a key differentiator for Adept. 1 Table of Contents Our robots include the widely employed 4-axis Cobra™ family of robots, which are SCARA (Selective Compliance Assembly Robot Arm) robot mechanisms designed for assembly and material handling tasks; Modular Adept Python™ single axis robot mechanisms that are highly configurable by the user; Adept Viper™ 6-axis articulated robots for high-speed precision assembly; and Adept Quattro™ robots for high-speed packaging applications. To address the needs of our customers, we continue to expand our robot product lines and to develop advanced software and sensing technologies that enable robots to perform a wider range of functions. In the packaged goods market, our systems are used to automate high volume packaging of perishable items and various consumer products such as food and cosmetics. In the life sciences market, our systems are used for a variety of applications, including the manufacture of medical devices, the automation of repetitive operations in diagnostic and pharmaceutical labs, and as part of computer assisted robot-based surgical procedures. In the disk drive/electronics market, our solutions help enable the manufacture and assembly of electronic products such as computer disk drives, cell phones and printer cartridges and components. In the semiconductor market, our Class 1 clean room robots provide high performance and precision motion to clean room assembly, handling, testing and packaging applications. We are also targeting our clean room products for similar applications in the solar panel production market, which uses very similar manufacturing processes. In the machine and industrial automation industry, our solutions are used to automate machine tools and other industrial equipment used in the manufacturing of products or components. In the automotive electronics industry, we provide automation solutions for the manufacturer and assembly of specialized automotive parts, in particular parts relating to sensors, safety equipment and other electronic applications. Adept’s business is focused towards delivering intelligent, flexible production automation products, components and services for assembly, packaging, material handling and lab automation applications under two operating segments: (1) Robotics and (2) Services and Support: 1) The Robotics segment provides intelligent motion controls systems, production automation software, including vision-guidance and application software, and robot mechanisms to customers. With motion controls at the core, any of the other product components we offer can be combined to offer our customers a tailored solution to address specific application requirements. 2) The Services and Support segment provides support services to customers including: spare parts for and/or remanufacture of robot mechanisms; information regarding the use of Adept’s automation equipment; ongoing support for installed systems; consulting services for applications; and training courses ranging from system operation and maintenance to advanced programming, geared towards manufacturing engineers who design and implement automation lines. We market and sell our products worldwide through more than 200 systems integrators, distributors and OEMs and our direct sales force. System integrators and OEMs add some combination of application-specific hardware and software to our products, resulting in solutions that are sold to Global 1000 companies across a range of industries. We have more than 30,000 motion control systems and more than 6,000 vision guidance systems installed worldwide, controlling an installed based of 25,000 Adept robots as well as other brands of robot mechanisms. Founded in 1983, Adept is the largest U.S.-based manufacturer of industrial robots. We were incorporated in California in 1983 and reincorporated in Delaware in 2005. Our principal executive offices are located at 3011 Triad Drive, Livermore, California 94551. Our telephone number at that address is (925) 245-3400. Our website address is www.adept.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 can be accessed, free of charge, at our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. ROBOTICS SEGMENT Adept is a pioneer and market innovator in developing intelligent robotics and advanced control systems. Our systems are designed for easy integration, deployment and use. We offer a unique robotic control system that 2 Table of Contents combines tightly integrated vision, motion control and geometric object recognition. This tight integration helps to reduce development costs, risk associated with precision applications and the total cost of implementation, and is a key differentiator for Adept. We believe our vision-guided robotics systems remain the most robust and proven solutions in the market today. Adept Robot Mechanisms We provide a large number of robot mechanisms to address different markets and application needs. Each of these robot mechanisms is controlled by the software and hardware control architecture described below in “Advanced Controls and Software.” Our broad product line allows system integrators and end users to develop automation solutions for many industries and applications. Adept’s most widely deployed robots are the Cobra family, including the Adept Cobra s600 (which comprised 9%, 23% and 21% of our gross revenue in each of our fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively), Adept Cobra s800 (which comprised 9%, 9% and 11% of our gross revenue in each of our fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively), Adept Cobra s350 and Adept Cobra Clean Room/ESD s350. We also offer an embedded controller version of the Cobra line with the iCobra family, consisting of the Adept Cobra i600 and Adept Cobra i800. Our Cobra products are 4-axis SCARA (Selective Compliance Assembly Robot Arm) robot mechanisms, designed for assembly and material handling tasks such as cell phone assembly and cosmetic kitting. SCARA robots utilize a combination of rotary and linear joints for high speed, high precision material handling, assembly and packaging. Our Cobra series robots are considered light-duty SCARA mechanisms that can be table mounted and offer an efficient range of motions in limited space. Our Cobra robots can be also connected to Adept’s SmartController for integrated motion and vision or multi-mechanism configurations. Adept Python Linear Modules are single axis devices, similar in function to our Cobra robots, but sold as modular units that can be configured by the user to form application specific custom robot mechanisms ranging from 2 to 4 axes. Target markets for Adept Python products include electronics and automotive electronics. Each Adept Python Module is powered by Adept MotionBlox, an integrated single axis motion controller and power amplifier, which reduces the amount of software programming and cabling required in a workcell or robotic system that performs a specific automation function. Adept Python Modules are also offered in single-axis standalone versions which can operate without any additional controllers, reducing cost and space for simple applications. To address the market need for a 6-axis articulated robot that combines speed and precision with a higher degree of flexibility and dexterity than traditional SCARA mechanisms, we offer the AdeptViper robot family. AdeptViper robots are targeted at precision assembly applications that require complex or fine manipulation of materials or products, for example, surgical assist or specialty assembly of components following curvatures or edges. We estimate that the market for 6-axis robotics in material handling and assembly processes is larger than the SCARA 4-axis market, and thus gives us expanded sales opportunities in the industries and global markets we serve. The AdeptViper s650 and AdeptViper s850 are designed for either table mounting or ceiling mounting and having a 5 kilogram maximum payload capacity. The AdeptViper s1300 and Adept Viper s1700 six-axis robots are extended-reach and higher-payload versions of the s650 and s850 robots models. In February 2007, we introduced Adept Quattro, a unique four parallel arm robot specifically designed for high-speed packaging applications. Adept Quattro integrates controller and vision capabilities and provides packaging times that are twice as fast as conventional packaging robots. Adept Quattro is targeted at loading, kitting, cartoning and case packing applications in the food, consumer goods, cosmetics and pharmaceutical industries. Advanced Controls and Software Robot Controls The Adept SmartController™ CX is an ultra-compact high-performance robot and vision controller based on Adept’s proprietary SmartServo™ distributed architecture. The Adept SmartServo distributed servo control network seamlessly integrates motion control for up to 24 axes, vision guidance and inspection, and real-time 3 Table of Contents networking and communications functions. Benefits of Adept SmartController include reduced costs, the smallest form factor in the industry, and simplified installation, wiring, and support while maintaining compliance with domestic and international safety specifications. Distributed Control Architecture We offer Adept SmartServo, a digital servo network that combines motion control signals and input/output signals for transmission over a high-speed IEEE-1394 FireWire cable. The product line includes a family of controllers, amplifiers, motors and Adept SmartServo-enabled mechanisms that replace most of the traditional control and power electronics architecture with a digital servo network. All Adept Cobra, AdeptViper, Adept Python and Adept Quattro mechanisms are configured to operate with Adept’s SmartServo technology. Adept SmartServo technology allows us to coordinate multiple Adept robots with one SmartController. This capability is a key value proposition for our customers. Motion Controls Adept MotionBlox™ technology offers convenient and economical scalability to add one or more axis to any Adept Robot or Adept Controller system. These self-contained multiple and single channel power amplifiers, with an on-board microprocessor, are mounted directly on (or in) the robot mechanism. Adept MotionBloxServo Kits are plug compatible with Adept’s SmartServo distributed servo network. Adept controllers are unique in that they are able to operate both with Adept’s own robots and with third party European and Japanese robotic systems and to enable higher performance from all these robots. With more than 35 kinematic models, or configurations of controls and robot mechanisms, we are able to control and integrate multiple vendor products and systems. AdeptVision Integrated vision is a key differentiator for Adept robotic solutions. Our AdeptVision family offers highly integrated machine vision products that are used for robot guidance and inspection applications. Utilizing proprietary geometric object recognition, the integration of our controller and vision systems software enables high speed vision applications such as vision servoing and on-the-fly vision refinement. For inspection applications such as gauging and dimensioning, the AdeptVision product is sold as an integrated inspection vision system comprised of a SmartController CX with an embedded vision board and software. AdeptSight™ integrates PC-based vision with Adept’s robotic and motion control product and is designed to work seamlessly with Adept Cobra SCARA robots, making the development and use of vision location, guidance and inspection applications simpler, faster, and more powerful. Based on Adept’s unique technology acquired through HexSight Locator, AdeptSight is a complete package that includes the application toolset, the vision software, vision and vision-to-robot calibration wizards, the camera and lens and the accessories to provide a complete out-of-the-box solution. Adept DeskTop™ Adept DeskTop is a Microsoft Windows application that provides an easy-to-use software development environment for Adept controllers and further enhances the ability to interface a PC to an Adept controller. The development environment is built on top of a library of ActiveX controls that can be accessed directly by C, C++, or Visual Basic PC applications to monitor and control an Adept robot, motion control, or vision system in real time. Adept V+™ Adept developed the first modern programming language for robots, and our V+ real-time programming language allows software developers to create automation software systems and is the key enabling technology 4 Table of Contents for our intelligent automation approach. This comprehensive programming environment provides a high-level language coupled with a multitasking operating system and built-in capability for integrating robots, machine vision, sensors, workcell control and general communications. These capabilities enable the development of sophisticated application software that can adaptively control mechanical systems based upon real-time sensory input while simultaneously maintaining communication with other factory equipment. SERVICE AND SUPPORT The goal of the Adept Service and Support group is to assure the productivity of every Adept product installed at a customer location. We offer on-going training, service and applications support to our customers, and maintain a program of spare parts, field upgrades, and factory repair and remanufacturing capabilities. In some industries, support is a critical component of our overall solutions offering, and we work closely with our customers to configure the automation system that will best address their specific requirements. We provide “evergreen” product paths that support our customers with service and upgrades for all products, including those no longer in production, to ensure that an investment in flexible automation from Adept will continue to be productive for the duration of a project or production requirement. Our service and support organization includes a staff located at our headquarters and field personnel who are based in the United States, Europe and Asia to support customers worldwide. Our product training personnel develop and deliver training courses on subjects ranging from basic system maintenance to advanced programming. In addition, we have field personnel who are qualified to assist in delivering training courses. These courses are geared both for manufacturing engineers who design and implement automation lines and for personnel who operate and maintain equipment once it is in production, and are taught in Adept offices and customer sites throughout the world. Our field service organization maintains and repairs our products on location at the end user’s facilities. Personnel based at our service centers provide advice to customers on spare parts, product upgrades and preventative maintenance. We also operate toll-free telephone support lines to provide advice on issues such as product usage, software programming structure, layout problems and system installation. In addition, our Livermore manufacturing facility provides factory repair and remanufacture services which ensure that Adept products will continue to be productive over the extended timeframes common for automated production lines. In some circumstances, we are also able to generate additional revenue through the remanufacture and enhancement of our competitors’ robots. Our Robotics segment accounted for approximately 63.1% of our revenue in fiscal 2007 and our Services and Support segment accounted for approximately 36.9% of our revenue in fiscal 2007. Additional financial information regarding our business segments is included in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Customers We sell our products to system integrators, distributors, Global 1000 companies and OEMs. Adept’s robotics solutions are targeted at companies that require greater precision, flexibility and productivity in their assembly, handling, packaging and testing processes. Through direct sales to companies, OEMs and via our systems integrators, Adept provides a suite of cost-effective robotics systems and services to the consumer electronics, disk drive, machine tool automation, automotive electronics, packaged goods and life sciences industries. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for any of the past three fiscal years. Financial information regarding revenue derived from domestic and international customers based upon geographic area is included in Note 10 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 5 Table of Contents Sales and Distribution We market our products through system integrators, distributors, our direct sales force and OEMs. System Integrators. We ship a substantial portion of our products through system integrators, and we view our relationships with these organizations as important to our success. We have established relationships with over 200 system integrators worldwide that provide expertise and process knowledge for a wide range of specific applications. In the United States and Europe, these relationships are generally nonexclusive and not limited to specific geographical territories. In certain other international markets, Adept’s integrator relationships may include limited exclusive arrangements for a limited geographical territory in which the integrator markets and supports Adept functions directly. Generally a system integrator can purchase both standard and non-standard Adept solutions and components as opposed to OEM arrangements where generally one standard component or solution is purchased in higher volumes. Distributors. We utilize a network of distributors to provide cost effective sales coverage in smaller markets where it is prohibitively expensive for us to allocate direct sales resources. We use a combination of exclusive (Adept product only) and non-exclusive distributors who sell our robot and vision guidance products in their standard forms. Adept also provides service and support for customers who have purchased Adept products through one of our distributors. As of June 30, 2007, we had 15 distributors in several countries around the world. Direct Sales Force. We employ a sales force which is currently organized around our primary target markets and which sells to both end users and our indirect channel partners. With respect to end users, the sales force directs its efforts to communicate the capabilities of our products and support services and obtain up-to-date information regarding market requirements. Our sales force possesses expertise in automation solutions and advises end users on alternative production line designs, special application techniques, equipment sources and system integrator selection. Our sales force also works closely with system integrators and OEMs to integrate our product line into their systems, provides sales leads to certain system integrators and obtains intelligent automation system quotes from system integrators for end users. As of June 30, 2007, our North American direct sales force included 12 employees. We have three North American sales and customer support offices located in Livermore, California; Cincinnati, Ohio, and Charlotte, North Carolina. As of June 30, 2007, our international sales organization included 16 direct sales employees and nine agents covering Europe, Asia and South America. Some of our larger manufacturing end user customers, to whom we sell directly, have in-house engineering departments that are comparable to a captive systems integrator. These end user customers establish a corporate integrator relationship with us offering benefits similar to those provided to our integrator distribution channel; however, we may in some cases form strategic alliances for certain potentially high volume market opportunities with greater benefits to the customer than exist in system integrator arrangements, although the benefits may come with contractual restrictions. OEMs. Our OEM customers typically purchase one standard product configuration, which the OEM integrates with additional hardware and software and sells under the OEM’s label to other resellers and end users. Unlike our system integrator channel, OEMs are responsible for all marketing, sales and customer support and for maintaining the associated spare parts to service the end users of the integrated product. Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on the development of an integrated product line, which furthers our factory automation approach and which reduces cost, enhances performance, and improves ease of use for our customers. Research and development activities are focused on design of our motion and vision control hardware and the robotic mechanisms that utilize them along with advanced software for vision, motion control and applications. 6 Table of Contents As part of our corporate restructuring, at the end of June 2007 we consolidated our primary research and development activities in Livermore, California and Quebec, Canada into our Livermore facility. We have devoted, and intend to devote in the future, a significant portion of our resources to research and development programs. As of June 30, 2007, we had 39 persons engaged in research, development and engineering and as of August 25, 2007 we had 30 employees in this area. Our research, development and engineering expenses were approximately $7.2 million for fiscal 2007, $7.1 million for fiscal 2006 and $6.9 million for fiscal 2005 and represented 14.8% of revenues for fiscal 2007, 12.4% of revenues for fiscal 2006 and 13.6% of revenues for fiscal 2005. Manufacturing The majority of our robot mechanisms are sourced externally and Adept’s manufacturing operations, which are located in Livermore, California and Dortmund, Germany, are focused on product assembly, integration and test. We strategically outsource sub-components of our systems, including electronics assemblies and mechanical mechanisms. Our manufacturing engineering organization develops test processes and detailed instructions for all manufacturing and test operations. These instructions are established in writing, implemented through training of the manufacturing workforce, and monitored to assure compliance. In addition, our manufacturing organization works closely with our suppliers to develop instructions, test methods and to remedy technical or quality problems if they arise. Certain components and sub-assemblies incorporated into our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. We routinely monitor single source supply parts, and we endeavor to ensure that adequate inventory is available to maintain manufacturing schedules should the supply of any part be interrupted. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on sole or limited source suppliers, we have not qualified a second source for some of these products and the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage customer relationships. Backlog Our product backlog at June 30, 2007 was approximately $6.3 million, as compared to approximately $6.1 million at June 30, 2006. Customers who have placed orders with delivery dates beyond twelve months from the end of the fiscal quarter are not included in backlog, and thus we expect substantially all backlog at June 30, 2007 to ship during fiscal 2008. Because orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules and in certain instances may be subject to cancellation without significant penalty to the customer, our backlog at any date may not be indicative of demand for our products or actual revenues for any period in the future. Employees At June 30, 2007, we had 157 employees worldwide. Of the total, 39 were engaged in research and development, 34 in sales and marketing, 29 in service and support, 30 in operations, and 25 in finance and administration. At the end of fiscal 2007, as part of our corporate restructuring, we conducted a reduction in force to rebalance our resources with our operational priorities and our target markets. As of August 25, 2007, we had 146 employees worldwide, of which 30 were engaged in research and development, 30 in sales and marketing, 29 in service and support, 30 in operations, and 27 in finance and administration. Competition The market for intelligent automation products is highly competitive. We compete with a number of robot companies, motion control companies, and machine vision companies. Many of these companies are larger or have more resources than Adept does. Many of our competitors in the robot market are integrated manufacturers 7 Table of Contents of products that produce robotics equipment internally for their own use and may also compete with our products for sales to other customers. The basis for competition typically centers on price and performance. We believe that we favorably compete on the basis of higher performance, additional capabilities, greater combination of speed, precision, and flexibility, and better support of our product line. Our principal competitors in the SCARA robot and linear modules markets include subsidiaries of Japanese companies, including Epson Corporation, Yamaha Corporation, Denso Corporation and IAI America, Inc. We also compete with a small group of European companies, principally Stäubli Corporation. Adept robots are differentiated by integrating more sophisticated controls and vision technology along with embedded controls. In the material handling robot market, we compete with the above companies, as well as manufacturers of 6-axis robots including ABB Robotics division, FANUC Robotics, Inc., Motoman, Inc. and Stäubli Corporation. In the 6-Axis market, Adept offers strong performance and more sophisticated controls and software. In the machine vision market, our primary competition is from Cognex Corporation. Cognex has a broader, more extensive product line than Adept, but is focused on machine vision only. In the packaged goods market, the primary competition for the Adept Quattro robot comes from ABB Robotics division and FANUC Robotics. The Adept Quattro robot offers higher performance and a more compact control solution than its competing products. Intellectual Property Because Adept’s success and competitiveness depends to an extent on the technical expertise, creativity, and knowledge of our personnel, we utilize patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection to safeguard our competitive position. At June 30, 2007, we had thirteen patents issued and current on various innovations in the field of robotics, motion control, and machine vision technology. In addition, we make use of non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees, and consultants. Adept attempts to protect its intellectual property by restricting access to its proprietary information through a combination of technical and internal security measures. There can be no assurance, however, that any of the above measures will be adequate to protect the proprietary technology of Adept. Further, effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may be unavailable in certain foreign countries. Seasonality Historically, orders have been lowest in our first half of the fiscal year and highest in our second half of the fiscal year, with a decline between the fourth quarter of one fiscal year and the first fiscal quarter of the next year. This historical seasonality is due, in part, to the concentration of sales into the European market. Revenues in each quarter will vary based on European market seasonality and on the particular timing of major programs to key customers. We expect that this seasonality may be less dramatic in the foreseeable future as our Quattro packaging business increases and partially offsets the seasonal pattern Restructuring At the end of fiscal 2007, we initiated a restructuring of our business to reduce facility and headcount costs, consolidate development activities at fewer locations and realign our U.S. sales resources around our target vertical markets. As a consequence, we have reduced our quarterly expense rate and are realigning our resources to focus them on more profitable opportunities in Europe and in our target markets. 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors that are difficult to forecast, are often out of our control and can be extremely volatile. Our past revenues and other operating results may not be accurate indicators of our future performance, and you should not rely on such results to predict our future performance. Our operating results have been subject to significant fluctuations in the past, and could be subject to fluctuations in the future. The factors that may contribute to these fluctuations include: • fluctuations in aggregate capital spending, cyclicality and other economic conditions domestically and internationally in one or more industries in which we sell our products; • changes or reductions in demand in the electronics, disk drive, automotive, packaged goods, and other markets we serve; • slower than expected adoption of distributed controls architecture or the adoption of alternative automated technologies; • a change in market acceptance of our products or a shift in demand for our products; • changes in our strategy and organizational changes made to execute changes in our strategy; • new product introductions by us or by our competitors; • changes in product mix and pricing by us, our suppliers or our competitors; • pricing and related availability of components and raw materials for our products; • our failure to manufacture a sufficient volume of products in a timely and cost-effective manner; • our failure to anticipate the changing product requirements of our customers; • changes in the mix of sales by distribution channel; • our ability to effectively manage our working capital; • impact of new accounting pronouncements; • exchange rate fluctuations; • shifts in geographic concentration of our sales or operations between domestic and international; • seasonal fluctuations in demand and our associated revenue, for which demand is generally lower in the first half of the fiscal year; • our ability to expand our product offerings through acquired technologies and products; • costs incurred in connection with compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act internal controls and other SEC and NASDAQ requirements; and • extraordinary events such as litigation or acquisitions. Revenues also impact our gross margins. Our gross margins can vary greatly for a number of reasons, and our operating results tend to fluctuate as a result of the variance in gross margins. The mix of products we sell can vary from period to period, particularly with respect to the volume of lower margin hardware products (such as mechanical subsystems purchased from third party vendors), and higher margin controller products. While we intend to more aggressively pursue opportunities to sell our controllers and other software products, we cannot give any assurances regarding the growth of our sales of these higher margin products in the future. Other factors that impact gross margins include: • currency exchange rate fluctuations for our international sales; • the average selling prices of products we sell including changes in the average discounts offered; 9 Table of Contents • the costs to manufacture, service and support our products and enhancements; • the costs to customize our systems; • the volume of products produced and associated production volume variances, if any, generated; • our efforts to enter new markets, in particular the growth of our sales in Asia; • certain inventory-related costs including obsolescence of products and component demand changes resulting in excess inventory. We generally recognize product revenues upon shipment or, for certain international sales, upon receipt by the customers. As a result, our net revenues and results of operations for a fiscal period will be affected by the timing of orders received and orders shipped during the period. A significant percentage of our product shipments occur in the last month of each fiscal quarter. Historically, this has been due, in part, to our inability to forecast the level of demand for our products or the product mix for a particular fiscal quarter. To address this problem we periodically stock inventory levels of completed robots, machine controllers and certain strategic components. A delay in shipments near the end of a fiscal period, for example, due to product development delays or delays in obtaining materials, for example, may cause sales to fall below expectations and harm our operating results for the period. Similarly, our indirect costs, production capacity and operating expenses are largely fixed in the short run. Continued investments in research and development, capital equipment and ongoing customer service and support capabilities, in addition to the expense of being a public reporting company, result in significant fixed costs that we cannot reduce rapidly or at all. As a result, if our sales for a particular fiscal period are below expected levels, our cost of revenue increases and our operating results for the period could be materially adversely affected. Further, if shipments of our products fail to meet forecasted levels, the increased inventory levels and increased operating expenses in anticipation of sales that do not materialize could adversely affect our business and substantially impact our liquidity. In the event that in some fiscal quarter our net revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may fall. We may not be able to increase or sustain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our international operations and sales and foreign suppliers subject us to foreign currency exchange risks, divergent regulatory requirements and other financial and operating risks outside of our control that may harm our operating results. We have significant and expanding operations outside the United States and a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from non-U.S. sales. International sales were $29.2 for the year ended June 30, 2007, $30.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2006, and $33.9 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. This represented 60%, 53% and 67% of revenue for the respective periods. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also purchase some critical components and mechanical subsystems from, and increasingly rely upon, foreign suppliers. As a result, our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international sales and purchases, which include the following: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • political, military and economic changes and disruptions, including terrorist activity; • transportation costs and delays; • foreign currency fluctuations; • export/import controls; • tariff regulations and other trade barriers; • higher freight rates; 10 Table of Contents • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales, service and manufacturing operations; • stringent local jurisdictional requirements regarding employees and union activity; • greater difficulty in and longer time required for accounts receivable collection in foreign jurisdictions; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Ongoing global economic and political developments and the resulting changes in currency exchange rates, most notably between the U.S. dollar, the euro, and the Japanese yen, have had, and may in the future have, a significant effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The decline in value of the U.S. dollar to the euro in fiscal 2005 through 2007 resulted in a currency exchange gain for us, and future fluctuations may result in significant gains or losses. If there is an increase in the rate at which a foreign currency exchanges into U.S. dollars, the dollar has appreciated relative to the foreign currency, and it will take more of the foreign currency to equal the same amount of U.S. dollars than before the rate increase. Pricing our products and services in U.S. dollars in this circumstance results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. Foreign exchange fluctuations may render our products less competitive relative to locally manufactured product offerings, or could result in foreign exchange losses. To maintain a competitive price for our products in Europe and elsewhere, we may have to provide discounts or otherwise effectively reduce our prices, resulting in a lower margin on products sold in Europe and other relevant locations. Additionally, we make yen-denominated purchases of certain components and mechanical subsystems from certain of our sole or single source Japanese suppliers and thus remain subject to the transaction exposures that arise from foreign exchange movements between the dates foreign currency export sales or purchase transactions are recorded and the dates cash is received or payments are made in foreign currencies. Beginning in fiscal 2007 our non-U.S. operations uses its respective local currency as the functional currency. In Europe, we are now manufacturing locally and thereby incurring a greater part of our costs and expenses in the local currency. Singapore has become our Asian headquarters with a growing local staff incurring a greater percentage of local currency expenses. These operations result in exposure to currency exchange risk. Continued change in the values of the euro, yen or changes in the values of other foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have expanded our market presence in Asia over the past two years in response to the increase in multi-national manufacturing activities in that region. We maintain an office in Singapore and sell standard components for products to integrators and OEMs who deliver products to Asian markets such as Japan, Malaysia, Korea, and China. Past turmoil in Asian financial markets and weakness in underlying economic conditions in certain Asian countries may continue to impact our sales to OEM customers who deliver to, are located in, or whose projects are based in those Asian countries. In addition, customers in those countries may face reduced access to working capital to fund component purchases, such as our products, due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending due to contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer’s or their bank’s financial condition or the inability to access local equity financing. In the past, as a result of this lack of working capital and higher interest rates, we have experienced periodic declines in sales to OEMs serving the Asian market. With over half of our revenues coming from international sales, collection times on those sales are longer because of longer delivery times, time required to clear customs, and generally slower payment patterns in some international markets. As our international sales increase, delays in receiving payment in connection with such sales may also more greatly impact our revenue and liquidity. In addition to our international sales, maintaining operations in different countries requires us to expend significant resources to keep our operations coordinated and subjects us to differing laws and regulatory regimes that may affect our offerings and revenue. 11 Table of Contents We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow in the past, and our doing so in the future could impair our operations and revenue-generating activities and adversely affect our results of operations. We have limited cash resources, and because of certain regulatory restrictions impeding our ability to move certain cash reserves from our foreign operations to our U.S. operations, we may have limited access to a portion of our existing cash balances. We currently have a one-year credit facility for up to $5.0 million, under which no amounts are outstanding. We currently depend on funds generated from operating activities, plus the proceeds of our June 2006 common stock financing and may depend on the funds available through our credit facility to meet our operating requirements and execute on our growth plan. If our projected revenue falls below current estimates or if operating expenses exceed current, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop or enhance new products to an extent desirable to execute our strategic growth plan, pursue acquisitions that would complement our existing product offerings or enhance our technical capabilities to fully execute our business plan or otherwise adequately respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Any of these actions would adversely impact our business and results of operations. The long sales cycle, customer evaluation process, and implementation period of our products may increase the costs of obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our earnings. Our products are technologically complex. Prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate our products and to install and integrate them into larger systems. Orders expected in one quarter may shift to another quarter or be cancelled with little advance notice as a result of the customers’ budgetary constraints, internal acceptance reviews, and other factors affecting the timing of customers’ purchase decisions. In addition, customers often require a significant number of product presentations and demonstrations, in some instances evaluating equipment on site, before reaching a sufficient level of confidence in the product’s performance and compatibility with the customer’s requirements to place an order. As a result, our sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy evaluation and approvals that typically accompany capital expenditure approval processes. The sales cycles of our products often last for many months or even years. In addition, the time required for our customers to incorporate our products into their systems can vary significantly with the needs of our customers and generally exceeds several months, which further complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our operating results. Longer sales cycles require us to invest significant resources in attempting to make sales, which may not be realized in the near term and therefore may delay or prevent the generation of revenue. In addition, should our financial condition deteriorate, prospective customers may be reluctant to purchase our products, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. Sales of our products depend on the capital spending patterns of our customers, which tend to be cyclical; we have experienced reduced demand in some of the industries in which we operate, which has and may continue to adversely affect our revenue and we may not be able to quickly ramp up if demand significantly increases. Intelligent automation systems using our products can range in price from $25,000 to $500,000. Accordingly, our success is directly dependent upon the capital expenditure budgets of our customers. Our future operations may be subject to substantial fluctuations as a consequence of domestic and foreign economic conditions, industry patterns and other factors affecting capital spending. Although the majority of our international customers are not in the Asia-Pacific region, a significant portion of our revenues comes from sales in this region, and we believe that any instability in the Asia-Pacific economies could also have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations as a result of a reduction in sales by our customers to those markets. Domestic or international recessions or a downturn in one or more of our major markets, such as the electronic/communications, packaging, food, and pharmaceuticals industries, and any resulting cutbacks in capital spending would have a direct, negative impact on our business. 12 Table of Contents Downturns in the industries we serve often occur in connection with, or anticipation of, maturing product cycles for both companies and their customers and declines in general economic conditions. Industry downturns have been characterized by reduced demand for devices and equipment, production over-capacity and accelerated decline in average selling prices. During a period of declining demand, we must be able to quickly and effectively reduce expenses while at the same time, continue to motivate and retain key employees. In the last two years, we have seen demand from U.S. manufacturing markets generally decline. We implemented a worldwide restructuring program in fiscal 2002 and at the end of fiscal 2007 to realign our businesses to the changes in our industry and our customers’ decrease in capital spending and also undertook cost reductions measures in fiscal 2003 through 2005. Despite restructuring activities, our ability to reduce expenses in response to any downturn in any of these industries is limited by our need for continued investment in engineering and research and development and extensive ongoing customer service and support requirements, in addition to administrative costs which must be incurred by us as a public company. The long lead-time for production and delivery of some of our products creates a risk that we may incur expenditures or purchase inventories for products that we cannot sell. We believe our future performance will continue to be affected by the cyclical nature of these industries, and thus, any future downturn in these industries could therefore harm our revenue and gross margin if demand drops or average selling prices decline. Industry upturns have been characterized by abrupt increases in demand for devices and equipment and production under-capacity. During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to quickly increase manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand and hire and assimilate a sufficient number of qualified personnel. Our inability to ramp-up in times of increased demand could harm our reputation and cause some of our existing or potential customers to place orders with our competitors. We have recently initiated a new restructuring program, have engaged in substantial restructuring activities in the past, and may need to implement further restructurings in the future, and our restructuring efforts may negatively impact our business. The intelligent automation industry is subject to rapid change. We have responded to increased changes in the industry in which we compete by restructuring our operations. At the end of fiscal 2007, Adept initiated a restructuring that is intended to lower fixed operating costs and redistribute sales and engineering resources to more quickly grow targeted markets while maintaining sufficient presence in key existing markets. The restructuring includes headcount reductions and the closure or consolidation of certain Adept sites in Canada and the U.S., consolidation of certain sales activities in the company’s Singapore location, the realignment of our sales force to address target vertical markets and the continued drive to outsource manufacturing of non-core functions and standard products. Despite our efforts to structure our company and our businesses to operate in a cost-effective manner while adequately facing competitive pressures and fulfilling customer needs, we cannot assure that we will be successful in continuing to implement these restructuring activities or that the reductions in sites, workforce and other cost-cutting measures will not harm our business operations and prospects. Further, in identifying a number of errors previously made as we completed our fiscal 2006 consolidation during fiscal 2007, we determined that our accounting systems and finance organization were not capable of supporting our growth and we have increased our investment and must continue to invest at a sufficient level to remediate these issues. Our inability to structure our operations based on evolving market conditions could negatively impact our business. We also cannot be certain that our current activities will be effective or that we will not be required to implement further restructuring activities, make additions or other changes to our management or reductions in workforce based on other cost reduction measures or changes in the markets and industry in which we compete. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and negative impacts on the business, and we cannot be sure that any future restructuring efforts will be successful. 13 Table of Contents We have significant dependence on outsourced manufacturing capabilities and single source suppliers. If we experience disruptions in the supply of one or more key components, we may be unable to meet product demand and we may lose customers and suffer decreased revenue. We outsource a predominant portion of our manufacturing function. Our June 2007 restructuring continues our movement toward outsourcing of non-critical functions and standard products. We obtain many key components and materials and most of our mechanical subsystems from sole or single source suppliers with whom we have no guaranteed supply arrangements. In addition, some of our sole or single sourced components and mechanical subsystems incorporated into our products have long procurement lead times. Our increased reliance on outsourced manufacturing and other capabilities, and particularly our reliance on sole or single source suppliers, involves certain significant risks including: • loss of control over the manufacturing process decreasing our flexibility in meeting customer delivery requirements and in reducing the cost of our products; • potential absence of adequate supplier capacity; • potential for significant price increases in the components and mechanical subsystems; • potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, materials or mechanical subsystems; and • reduced control over manufacturing yields, costs, timely delivery, reliability and quality of components, materials and mechanical subsystems. We do not have contracts with certain of our sole or single source suppliers. If any one of our suppliers were unable or unwilling to manufacture the components, materials or mechanical subsystems we need in the volumes we require, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements. The process of qualifying suppliers may be lengthy, and additional sources may not be available to us on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all. If sufficient quantities of these items were not available from our existing suppliers and a relationship with an alternative vendor could not be developed in a timely manner, shipments of our products could be interrupted and reengineering of these products could be required. We have limited control over the quality of certain manufactured products and their acceptance by our customers. In the past, we have experienced quality control or specification problems with certain key components provided by sole source suppliers, and have had to design around the particular flawed item. Any quality issues could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost sales, and increased warranty costs. In addition, some of the components that we use in our products are in short supply. In the past, we have also experienced delays in filling customer orders due to the failure of certain suppliers to meet our volume and schedule requirements. Some of our suppliers have also ceased manufacturing components that we require for our products, and we have been required to purchase sufficient supplies for the estimated life of such product line. Problems of this nature with our suppliers may occur in the future. Disruption, significant price increases, or termination of our supply sources could require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay our product shipments and damage relationships with current and prospective customers, require us to absorb a significant price increase or risk pricing ourselves out of the market, or prevent us from taking other business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we incorrectly forecast product mix for a particular period and we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of any components or mechanical subsystems on a timely and cost effective basis due to long procurement lead times, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be substantially impaired. Moreover, if demand for a product for which we have purchased a substantial amount of components fails to meet our expectations, or due to component price increases causes us to be priced out of the market, we would be required to write off the excess inventory. A prolonged inability to obtain adequate timely deliveries of key components or obtain components at prices within our business model could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our business will decline if we cannot keep up with the rapid pace of technological change and new product development that characterize the intelligent automation industry. The intelligent automation industry is characterized by rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Our ability to remain competitive depends greatly upon the technological quality of our products and processes compared to those of our competitors and our ability both to continue to develop new and enhanced products and to introduce those products at competitive prices and on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be successful in selecting, developing, and manufacturing new products or in enhancing our existing products on a timely basis or at all. Our new or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance. Our failure to successfully select, develop, and manufacture new products, or to timely enhance existing technologies and meet customers’ technical specifications for any new products or enhancements on a timely basis, or to successfully market new products, could harm our business. If we cannot successfully develop and manufacture new products or meet specifications, our products could lose market share, our revenue and profits could decline, or we could experience operating losses. New technology or product introductions by our competitors could also cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance for our existing products or force us to significantly reduce the prices of our existing products. Growth of our business depends upon the development and successful commercial acceptance of our new products. From time to time we have experienced delays in the introduction of, and certain technical and manufacturing difficulties with, some of our products, and we may experience technical and manufacturing difficulties and delays in future introductions of new products and enhancements. Our failure to develop, manufacture, and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset a decline in revenue from existing products or to successfully manage product and related inventory transitions could harm our business. Our success in developing, introducing, selling, and supporting new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including timely and efficient completion of hardware and software design and development, implementation of manufacturing processes, and effective sales, marketing, and customer service. Because of the complexity of our products, significant delays may occur between a product’s initial introduction and commencement of volume production. The development and commercialization of new products involve many difficulties, including: • the identification of new product opportunities; • the retention and hiring of appropriate research and development personnel; • the determination of the product’s technical specifications; • the successful completion of the development process; • the successful marketing of the product and the risk of having customers embrace new technological advances; and • additional customer service costs associated with supporting new product introductions and/or effecting subsequent potential field upgrades. The development of new products may not be completed in a timely manner, and these products may not achieve acceptance in the market. The development of new products has required, and will require, that we expend significant financial and management resources. If we are unable to continue to successfully develop new products in response to customer requirements or technological changes, our business may be harmed. Over the last several quarters, we have released new products to address emerging market requirements, including among others, our Quattro robot, targeted at the high speed packaging and part-picking applications in the food, consumer goods, cosmetics and pharmaceutical groups. A failure of our new products to be commercially successful may have a significant adverse impact on our operating results in the future. 15 Table of Contents In connection with our cost control efforts, we have limited resources to allocate to research and development and must allocate our resources among a wide variety of projects. Because of intense competition in our industry, the cost of failing to invest in strategic products is high. If we fail to adequately invest in research and development, we may be unable to compete effectively in the intelligent automation markets in which we operate. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. If we fail to develop and enhance an effective system of internal controls and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or obtain an unqualified attestation report from our independent auditors in the future. The restatement of fiscal 2006 quarterly financial statements, these weaknesses and failure to develop adequate controls could subject us to regulatory sanctions or litigation, harm our operating results and cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Effective internal controls required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls and disclosure controls that need improvement. In connection with the consolidation of our fiscal 2006 financial results, we identified a number of errors, primarily involving intercompany eliminations associated with our international subsidiaries, reflecting material weaknesses in our internal controls. Accordingly, during the fiscal 2006 audit, our external auditors identified certain material weaknesses, which meant that they believed that there was “a reportable condition in which the design or operation of one or more of the internal control components does not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that misstatements caused by errors or fraud in amounts that would be material in relation to the consolidated financial statements being audited may occur and not be detected within a timely period by employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions.” Adept completed a restatement of certain prior interim financial statements of fiscal 2006. We may be subject to claims, regulatory investigation, sanctions and/or litigation as a result of such restatements. We believe that we have substantially remediated the material weaknesses noted in our 2006 Form 10-K and meaningfully strengthened our internal controls and disclosure controls. However, in connection with the audit of our fiscal 2007 financial results, our independent auditors reported to us that certain adjustments made in the audit process were indicative of a material weakness existing in the review of information in the financial statement close process. As a result, we continue to take measures to strengthen these controls. To prepare for compliance with Section 404, which for the company under current regulations will be required as of June 30, 2008, we have undertaken certain actions including the preparation of an internal plan, which includes a timeline and schedule of activities for the evaluation, testing and remediation, as necessary, of internal controls. The remedied actions mentioned above and these actions have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased and significant expense, and have required and are likely to continue to require significant efforts by management and other employees. Failure to successfully complete such actions would subject us to adverse actions by the SEC, NASDAQ and possibly litigation. In the future, our independent auditors must evaluate management’s assessment concerning the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and render an opinion on our assessment and the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that our internal controls measures will be timely or successful to ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future and our independent auditors may not be able to render an unqualified attestation concerning our assessment and the effectiveness of our internal controls and disclosure controls. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could subject us to regulatory sanctions, harm our business and operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls and disclosure controls could also harm our reputation and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. 16 Table of Contents Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly-qualified managerial and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the intelligent automation industry is intense. Our inability to recruit, train, motivate and retain qualified management and technical personnel on a timely basis would adversely affect our ability to manage our operations and design, manufacture, market, and support our products, in addition to our ability to meet our requirements as a public company. We have experienced significant changes in our executive management group in the last three years. Our contingency and succession planning for our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and senior management is not yet completed. In the last two fiscal years we have had significant turnover in management team personnel. We have reduced headcount in connection with our restructurings in prior fiscal years and made changes in other senior personnel, which changes, taken with our more recent management changes and restatement of financial statements, may lead to employee questions regarding future actions by Adept leading to additional retention difficulties. In connection with the strengthening of our internal controls over financial reporting, we have hired and intend to hire additional qualified individuals for our finance organization, and their engagement and retention is critical to this endeavor. Other than our CEO’s offer letter which include certain limited change of control severance if terminated, and offer letters with certain of our officers that include only basic compensation terms, we have no employment agreements with our current management. We may incur credit risk-related losses because many of the resellers we sell to are small operations with limited financial resources. Substantial portions of our sales are to system integrators that specialize in designing and building production lines for manufacturers. Many of these companies are small operations with limited financial resources, and we have from time to time experienced difficulty in collecting payments from certain of these companies. As a result, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers. To the extent we are unable to mitigate this risk of collections from system integrators, our results of operations may be harmed. In addition, due to their limited financial resources, during extended market downturns the viability of some system integrators may be in question, which would also result in a reduction in our revenue or credit losses. We do not generally have long-term contracts with our customers, and our order bookings and backlog cannot be relied upon as a future indicator of sales. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers and existing contracts and purchase commitments may, under certain circumstances, be cancelled. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide meaningful assurance of future sales. Furthermore, our customers are not required to make minimum purchases and may cease purchasing our products at any time without penalty. Backlog should not be relied on as a measure of anticipated demand for our products or future revenue, because the orders constituting our backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules and in certain instances are subject to cancellation without significant penalty to the customer. Because our customers are free to purchase products from our competitors, we are exposed to competitive price pressure on each order. Any reductions, cancellations or deferrals in customer orders could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We market and sell our products primarily through an indirect channel comprised of third party resellers, and are subject to certain risks associated with this method of product marketing and distribution. We believe that our ability to sell products to system integrators and OEMs will continue to be important to our success. However, our relationships with system integrators and OEMs are generally not exclusive, and some of our system integrators and OEMs may expend a significant amount of effort or give higher priority to selling products of our competitors. In the future, any of our system integrators or our OEMs may discontinue their relationships with us or form additional competing arrangements with our competitors. The loss of, or a significant reduction in revenue from, system integrators or OEMs to which we sell a significant amount of our product could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We cannot control the procurement, either with respect to the timing or amount of orders placed, by our resellers. We also cannot control the sales or marketing efforts of the systems integrators and OEMs who sell our products, which may result in lower revenue if they do not successfully market and sell our products or choose instead to promote competing products. As we enter new geographic and applications markets, we must locate and establish relationships with system integrators and OEMs to assist us in building sales in those markets. It can take an extended period of time and significant resources to establish a profitable relationship with a system integrator or OEM because of product integration expenses, training in product and technologies and sales training. We may not be successful in obtaining effective new system integrators or OEMs or in maintaining sales relationships with them. In the event a number of our system integrators and/or OEMs experience financial problems, terminate their relationships with us or substantially reduce the amount of our products they sell, or in the event we fail to build or maintain an effective systems integrator or OEM channel in any existing or new markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we cannot identify and make acquisitions of other technologies and products, our ability to expand our operations and increase our revenue may be impaired. A meaningful portion of our historical growth was attributable to acquisitions of other technologies and businesses. We expect that acquisitions of complementary products and technologies in the future will likely again play an important role in our ability to expand our operations and increase our revenue. Our ability to make acquisitions is challenged by our cash constraints, the level and volatility of our common stock price and thin trading volume affecting liquidity considerations, making equity transactions more expensive. If we are unable to identify suitable targets for acquisition or complete acquisitions on acceptable terms, our ability to expand our product and/or service offerings and increase our revenue will be impaired. Any acquisition we may make in the future could disrupt our business, increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial condition or operations. In the future we may make acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses that offer products, services, and technologies that management believes will further our strategic objectives. We cannot be certain that we would successfully integrate any businesses, technologies or personnel that we might acquire, and any acquisitions might divert our management’s attention away from our core business. Any future acquisitions or investments we might make would present risks commonly associated with these types of transactions, including: • difficulty in combining the product offerings, operations, or workforce of an acquired business; • potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; • adverse effects on existing relationships with suppliers and customers; • disruptions of our on-going businesses; • difficulties in realizing our potential financial and strategic objectives through the successful integration of the acquired business; • difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • potential negative impact on results of operations due to goodwill impairment write-offs, amortization of intangible assets other than goodwill, or assumption of anticipated liabilities; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited previous experience; • potential negative impact of unanticipated liabilities or litigation; and • the diversion of management attention. 18 Table of Contents The risks described above, either individually or in the aggregate, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that future acquisitions, if any, could provide for consideration to be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock. In addition, we may issue additional equity in connection with future acquisitions, which could result in dilution of our stockholders’ equity interest. Fluctuations in our stock price may make acquisitions more expensive or prevent us from being able to complete acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we become subject to unfair hiring or termination claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed personnel, incur liability for damages and/or incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. Companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring personnel or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. We may also experience actions against us for employment terminations which are perceived to be unjustified. Although to date we have not experienced any material claims, defending ourselves from these claims could divert the attention of our management away from our operations. Our hardware and software products may contain defects that could increase our expenses and exposure to liabilities and or harm our reputation and future business prospects. Our hardware and software products are complex and, despite extensive testing, our new or existing products or enhancements may contain defects, errors or performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after these products or enhancements have been used in the marketplace for a period of time. We may discover product defects only after a product has been installed and used by customers. We may discover defects, errors, or performance problems in future shipments of our products. These problems could result in expensive and time consuming design modifications or large warranty charges, expose us to liability for damages, damage customer relationships, and result in loss of market share, any of which could harm our reputation and future business prospects. We generate revenue from sales of several relatively recently released products, and expect sales of our new products to increase in the current fiscal year. As a result, the negative impact on our business resulting from defects in such products could be significant. In addition, increased development and warranty costs could reduce our operating profits and could result in losses. The existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products could also lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us, our channel partners, or against our customers. A successful product liability claim could result in substantial cost and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we are not aware of any product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products entail the risk of these claims. Sales of our systems into more highly regulated markets may subject our business to increased regulation and potential product liability. Our systems and controls are sold in a variety of industries. As part of our increased focus on certain markets, we are now selling, or have increased our focused sales, for use in certain applications, including the manufacture of medical devices, the automation of repetitive operations in diagnostic and pharmaceutical labs, and as part of computer assisted robot-based surgical procedures. We must obtain and monitor compliance with regulatory requirements for our products and systems in these industries to which we would not otherwise be subject. This may increase certain costs necessary for the operation of our business. Additionally, our failure to obtain or maintain compliance with these requirements could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or subject us to regulatory actions or fines. Medical applications industries also subject its participants to greater risk of claims and product liability which are not a part of our historical operations or sales into other industries. 19 Table of Contents If our hardware products do not comply with standards set forth by the European Union, we will not be able to sell them in Europe. The hardware products we sell in the European Union are required to comply with European Union Low Voltage, Electro-Magnetic Compatibility and Machinery Safety directives. The European Union mandates that our products carry the CE mark denoting that these products are manufactured in strict accordance to design guidelines in support of these directives. These guidelines are subject to change and to varying interpretation. New guidelines impacting machinery design go into effect each year. To date, we have retained TUV Rheinland to help certify that our controller-based products, including some of our robots, meet applicable European Union directives and guidelines. Adept hardware products have been declared as exempt by TUV Rheinland from the EU Directive WEEE/RoHS (Waste Electrical and Electronics Equipment/Reduction of Hazardous Substances). Although our existing certified products meet the requirements of the applicable European Union directives, we cannot provide any assurance that future products can be designed, within market window constraints, to meet the future requirements. If any of our robot products or any other major hardware products do not meet the requirements of the European Union directives, we would be unable to legally sell these products in Europe. Thus, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Such directives and guidelines could change in the future, forcing us to redesign or withdraw from the market one or more of our existing products that may have been originally approved for sale. Our failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology may significantly impair our competitive advantage. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology and trade secrets. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret protection, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights, but have not always sought patent or similar protection on our technology where it may have been available. The steps we have taken may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The patent and trademark law and trade secret protection may not be adequate to deter third party infringement or misappropriation of our patents, trademarks, and similar proprietary rights. In addition, patents issued to Adept may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Our rights granted under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us, and the claims under our patent applications may not be allowed. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which can demand significant financial and management resources. The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. Moreover, our existing patents or any new patents that may be issued may not be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights in order to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. We may face costly intellectual property infringement claims. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties asserting that we are infringing certain patents and other intellectual property rights of others or seeking indemnification against such alleged infringement. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation could include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. There are numerous patents in the automation components industry. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the intellectual property rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be forced to respond to intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customer’s rights. These claims, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial 20 Table of Contents condition. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being forced to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • pay damages, license fees or royalties to the party claiming infringement; • stop selling products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign the challenged technology, which could be time-consuming and costly. If we were forced to take any of these actions, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates could have a material impact on our results of operations. Forecasts of our income tax position and resultant effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets and costs resulting from tax audits. To forecast our global tax rate, pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction are estimated and tax expense by jurisdiction is calculated. If the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimates, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry The market for intelligent automation products is intensely competitive, which may make it difficult to manage and grow our business or to maintain or enhance our profitability. We compete with a number of robot, motion control, machine vision, and simulation software companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, we may in the future face competition from new entrants in one or more of our markets. Many of our competitors in the robot market are integrated manufacturers of products that produce robotics equipment internally for their own use and may also compete with our products for sales to other customers. Some of these large manufacturing companies have greater flexibility in pricing because they generate substantial unit volumes of robots for internal demand and may have access through their parent companies to large amounts of capital. Any of our competitors may seek to expand their presence in other markets in which we compete. We believe that other principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products are: • product functionality and reliability; • price; • customer service; • delivery, including timeliness, predictability, and reliability of delivery commitment dates; and • product features such as flexibility, programmability, and ease of use. 21 Table of Contents Our current or potential competitors may develop products comparable or superior in terms of price and performance features to those developed by us or adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in connection with our research, development, engineering, marketing, and customer service efforts in order to meet any competitive threat, so that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We expect that in the event the intelligent automation market expands, competition in the industry will intensify as additional competitors enter our markets and current competitors expand their product lines. Increased competitive pressure could result in a loss of sales or market share or cause us to lower prices for our products, any of which could harm our business. If we are unable to effectively support the distinct needs of the multiple industries of our customers, the demand for our products may decrease and our revenue may decline. We market products for the electronics, disk drive, automotive, packaged goods, and life sciences industries. Because we operate in multiple industries, we must work constantly to understand the needs, standards, and technical requirements of numerous different industries and must devote significant resources to developing different products for these industries. Our results of operations are also subject to the cyclicality and downturns in these markets. Product development is costly and time consuming. Many of our products are used by our customers to develop, manufacture, and test their own products. As a result, we must anticipate trends in our customers’ industries and develop products before our customers’ products are commercialized. If we do not accurately predict our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest substantial resources in developing products that do not achieve broad market acceptance. Our decision to continue to offer products to a given market or to penetrate new markets is based in part on our judgment of the size, growth rate, and other factors that contribute to the attractiveness of a particular market. If our product offerings in any particular market are not competitive or our analyses of a market are incorrect, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Internally developing intelligent automation products is expensive, and these investments often require a long time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. Although our total expenditures for research and development have declined, we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we cannot predict that we will receive significant revenue from these investments, if at all. If we do not comply with environmental regulations, we may incur significant costs causing our overall business to suffer. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, and disposal of certain hazardous substances used in the manufacturing and assembly of our products. We believe that we are currently in compliance with all material environmental regulations in connection with our manufacturing operations, and that we have obtained all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. However, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could subject us to such consequences as: the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, and alteration of manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Compliance with environmental regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur substantial expenses. Our failure to control the use, disposal, removal, storage, or to adequately restrict the discharge of or assist in the cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances, could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liability under certain statutes. The imposition of liabilities of this kind would harm our financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Stock The sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants in the public market, and the concentration of our equity ownership by a small number of stockholders, could adversely affect the liquidity of Adept securities and the prevailing market price of our common stock. We had an aggregate of 7,932,992 shares of common stock outstanding in September 2007 shortly before the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In November 2003, we completed a private placement of an aggregate of approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock to several accredited investors. Investors in the 2003 financing also received warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 1.1 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $6.25 per share, with certain proportionate anti-dilution protections. These warrants expire in 2008 and could be exercised at any time. In June 2006, we also issued 731,251 shares to Crosslink entities in a private placement, referred to as the 2006 financing. In May 2007, in connection with our settlement of a dispute with Crosslink, we issued 225,000 shares of common stock to Crosslink entities. We have registered for resale by the investors the shares of common stock issued, and to be issuable upon exercise of the warrants, in the 2003 financing and Adept’s 2006 financing and have agreed to register the resale of the 225,000 shares issued to Crosslink entities as part of the settlement. The selling security holders from these offerings may offer up to an aggregate of approximately 4.3 million shares of our common stock under these existing registration statements, including more than 1.1 million shares of which are not currently outstanding but may be in the future. The investors in our private placements beneficially own a substantial portion of our total outstanding equity securities, and these investors along with a few other stockholders unrelated to these stockholders together hold the substantial majority of our outstanding common stock, which may affect the trading market for our stock. Our use of equity to raise additional financing or as consideration in connection with a future acquisition or other transaction could result in the further dilution of our stockholders’ equity interest. Additionally, at June 30, 2007, options to purchase approximately 1,083,760 shares of our common stock were outstanding under our equity compensation plans, and an additional 368,532 shares of common stock were reserved for future grant and issuance under such plans. We also issue shares under our employee stock purchase plan. Shares of common stock issued under these plans generally will be freely tradable in the public market, subject to the Rule 144 limitations applicable to our affiliates. The exercise of options and conversion of the warrants will significantly increase the number of common shares outstanding, diluting the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Further, the sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of these outstanding options or issuable upon exercise of our warrants, or future options in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional preferred stock could delay or impede a change of control of our company and may adversely affect the price an acquirer is willing to pay for our common stock. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without further action by our stockholders, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences, and the number of shares constituting a series or the designation of such series. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings, and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Adept without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of, the holders of common stock. Additionally, the conversion of preferred stock into common stock may have a dilutive effect on the holders of common stock. 23 Table of Contents Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past, and will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in the future in response to a variety of factors, including: • fluctuations in operating results and restatements of historical financial statements; • our liquidity needs and constraints; • effectiveness of cost control measures; • changes in our business focus and operational organization; • our restructuring activities and changes in management and other personnel; • the trading of our common stock on NASDAQ or another exchange; • the business environment, including the operating results and stock prices of companies in the industries we serve; • general conditions in the intelligent automation industry; • announcements concerning our business or that of our competitors or customers; • the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • litigation or claims regarding our restatement, internal controls, proprietary rights or other matters; • developments in the financial markets; and • perceived dilution from stock issuances, including as a result of our Crosslink settlement and 2006 financing. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies, and high technology companies in particular, fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. Those fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, terrorist or other military actions, or international currency fluctuations, as well as public perception of equity values of publicly-traded companies may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may be subject to claims, securities class action and other litigation as a result of our restatement, if our stock price remains volatile or operating results suffer, which could result in substantial costs, distract management, and damage our reputation. In the past, securities class action and other litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities or where operating results suffer. Companies like ours, which are involved in rapidly changing markets, are particularly subject to this risk. We have incurred net operating losses in recent fiscal years and our stock price remains volatile. In September 2006, Adept announced the restatement of our financial statements for one or more prior interim periods due to material inaccuracies in historical financial statements. In October 2006, Adept filed amended quarterly reports for the first three quarters of fiscal 2006 which reflect such restatements. Crosslink made claims against Adept relating to such restatements, and in May 2007, Adept settled this matter and issued common stock in consideration for such settlement. To date, there has been no litigation commenced with respect to the restatement matters or other matters; however, such announcements often result in litigation of varying kinds against the issuer. We may be the target of litigation of this kind in the future. Any securities or other litigation could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources from our operations, and negatively affect our public image and reputation. Recent legislation, liability insurance costs and other increased costs of being public are likely to impact our future consolidated financial position and results of operations. Significant regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations promulgated as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings will have an 24 Table of Contents impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These regulatory requirements have, and in the future, are expected to increase general and administrative costs. In addition, costs of insurance have, in some instances, increased after these regulatory changes. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles and adversely affect our financial position and operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 