ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors that are difficult to forecast, are often out of our control, and can be extremely volatile. Our past revenues and other operating results may not be accurate indicators of our future performance, and you should not rely on such results to predict our future performance. Our operating results have been subject to significant fluctuations in the past, and could be subject to fluctuations in the future. Factors that may contribute to these fluctuations include: • fluctuations in aggregate capital spending, cyclicality and other economic conditions, or demand domestically and internationally in any of the industries we serve; • our ability to effectively manage our working capital; • changes in market acceptance of our products or shifts in demand for our products; • new product introductions by us or by our competitors; • changes in product mix and pricing by us, our distribution channels, our suppliers, or our competitors; • pricing and availability of components and raw materials for our products; • our failure to manufacture a sufficient volume of products in a timely and cost-effective manner; • our inability to adjust certain fixed costs and expenses; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • shifts in geographic concentration of our sales or supply; • seasonal fluctuations in demand and our associated revenue; • our ability to expand our product offerings through acquired technologies and products; • costs incurred in connection with regulatory compliance for the industries we serve; and • extraordinary events such as litigation, product liability claims or mergers and acquisitions activity. We generally recognize product revenues upon shipment, or in certain cases upon receipt by customers. As a result, our net revenues and results of operations for a fiscal period will be affected by the timing of orders received and orders shipped during the period. A significant percentage of our product shipments occur in the last month of each fiscal quarter. This can make it very difficult to reliably forecast the level of demand for our products for a particular fiscal quarter. We may also enter into agreements requiring us to accept certain orders meeting agreed criteria and to hold specified levels of inventory available for order under certain circumstances. To address these difficulties, we periodically stock inventory levels of completed robots, machine controllers and certain strategic components. Further, an order cancellation, reduction or delay in shipments near the end of a fiscal period may cause sales to fall below expectations and harm our operating results for that period. As a result, our operating results vary and we may not be able to achieve or sustain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our gross margins can vary greatly for a number of reasons, and our operating results tend to fluctuate as a result of that variance. The mix of products we sell can vary from period to period, particularly with respect to the volume of lower margin hardware products like mechanical subsystems, and higher margin controller products or robotics mechanisms. Factors that impact gross margins include the operational factors listed above as well as: • the costs to manufacture, service and support our products and enhancements; • discounts given to compete in certain markets; 12 Table of Contents • the costs to customize our systems; • the volume of products produced and any associated production volume variances; and • certain inventory-related costs including obsolescence of products and excess inventory. While we intend to aggressively pursue opportunities to sell our higher margin products, we cannot give any assurances regarding the growth of our sales of these products in the future. We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow in the past, and have limited cash resources, which could impair our ability to invest in growth and adversely affect our results of operations. We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow, and if our projected revenue fails to increase or our operating or extraordinary expenses exceed current expectations, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, adequately respond to competitive pressures or fully execute our business plan. We have limited cash resources, and because of certain regulatory restrictions impeding our ability to move certain cash reserves from our foreign operations to our U.S. operations, we may have limited access to a portion of those existing cash balances. We depend on our credit facility and funds generated from operating activities to meet our operating requirements and execute our growth plan. Our credit facility subjects us to certain financial and operating covenants, the failure of which would prevent us from borrowing under this credit facility. If we are unable to obtain and maintain sufficient capital on favorable terms, it could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue additional expansion opportunities or make other investments in our growth, and could impact our business and results of operations. We depend on outsourced manufacturing and information technology capabilities and single source suppliers, and if we experience disruptions in this supply or prices increase, our business may suffer. We outsource most of our manufacturing functions, and obtain many key components, materials, and mechanical subsystems from sole or single source suppliers. We have limited contracts or guaranteed supply arrangements with these suppliers, and the lack of alternate sources and lengthy qualification process for replacement suppliers involves significant risks. These risks include whether or not new suppliers will provide adequate quantities of components, materials or mechanical subsystems with sufficient quality on a timely basis, and the risk that supplier pricing may be higher than anticipated. If we are unable to obtain the components, materials, or mechanical subsystems that we require on a timely basis, at acceptable prices, and of sufficient quality, we could lose current or future business. In the past, we have experienced quality control or specification problems with certain components provided by sole source suppliers, and have had to design around the particular flawed items. Any quality issues could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost sales, or increased warranty costs, and could harm our results of operations. Any significant price increase or disruption of our supply sources could interrupt our product shipments, require reengineering of these products, and damage relationships with current and prospective customers. If our suppliers cease manufacturing components that we require for our products, we may need to purchase a significant amount of inventory that, in turn, could lead to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Finally, if we incorrectly forecast product mix for a particular period and we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of any components or mechanical subsystems on a timely and cost-effective basis due to long procurement lead times, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be substantially impaired. We also outsource most of our IT functions. We rely on third parties to ensure that our operational needs are met, which subjects us to risks arising from the loss of control over the process. A failure of our service provider to adequately perform may have a significant adverse affect on our operations. 13 Table of Contents Global economic conditions currently affecting our customers and suppliers may also negatively affect our financial results by decreasing our sales and increasing our risk of credit-related losses. The global economic downturn created a widespread slowdown in capital investment, manufacturing, and demand for consumer products. In response to these circumstances, our suppliers have or may significantly increase their prices or reduce their output, and some of our customers have, and may continue to defer, reduce or cease to place orders for our products, or may delay or default on their payment obligations where they generate insufficient revenue and cannot secure financing. Our competitors may also compete aggressively by decreasing their prices for similar products. A substantial portion of our sales are to system integrators that specialize in designing and building production lines for manufacturers. Many of these companies are small operations with limited financial resources, and collecting payments from them has occasionally been difficult. During market downturns, the limited resources of these customers may threaten their viability, and this could reduce our revenue and increase our credit losses. Customers also may modify or cancel plans to acquire our products in the future, and may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments. Further, our customers’ inability to fulfill payment obligations may adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers, but to the extent we are unable to mitigate this risk of collections from customers negatively impacted by the economic downturn, our results of operations will be harmed. Our inability to react quickly and adequately to increases or decreases in demand for our products could harm our business and results of operations. Intelligent automation systems using our products can range in price from $25,000 to $500,000. Accordingly, our success is directly dependent upon the capital expenditure budgets of our customers, which tend to be cyclical. The current downturn in some of our major markets has resulted in cutbacks in capital spending, and our business has been, and may continue to be, directly and negatively impacted as a result. Industry downturns have been characterized by reduced demand for devices and equipment, production over-capacity, and accelerated declines in average selling prices. During a period of declining demand, we must be able to quickly and effectively reduce expenses, and we have implemented several worldwide restructuring programs to realign our business to the changes in our markets. However, our ability to reduce expenses is limited by our need to retain and motivate key employees, and by our need for continued investment in product engineering, research and development. We also have extensive ongoing customer service and support requirements and must maintain a certain level of inventory to satisfy potential customer commitments, as well as administrative costs that cannot easily be reduced. We also must be able to maintain the ability to quickly increase our manufacturing capacity upon an increase in orders or general upturn in any of our markets. Typically, upturns in markets such as disk drive or electronics have been characterized by abrupt increases in demand, and production under-capacity. We must be able to ramp up in times of increased demand and hire a sufficient number of qualified personnel to service our customers, and our inability to do so could cause current or future customers to place orders with our competitors instead of us. Our international operations and sales and our reliance on foreign suppliers subject us to foreign currency exchange risks, divergent regulatory requirements, and other financial and operating risks outside of our control that may harm our operating results. We have significant and expanding operations outside the United States, rely on foreign suppliers and a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from non-U.S. sales. International sales represented 77% and 69% of revenues for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. We expect that revenue from our international sales and operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also purchase some critical components and mechanical subsystems from, and increasingly rely upon, foreign suppliers. As a result, our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international sales, purchases, and operations which include: • foreign currency fluctuations; 14 Table of Contents • difficulties coordinating operations subject to differing regulatory regimes; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • political, military and economic changes and disruptions, including terrorist activity; • tariff regulations and other trade barriers; • transportation costs and delays; • stringent local jurisdictional requirements, such as employees and union activity considerations; • slower payment patterns and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivables from foreign jurisdictions; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. We face exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries or the reporting currency of our company, which is the U.S. dollar. Additionally, we make foreign currency-denominated purchases of certain components and mechanical subsystems from some of our foreign suppliers, and thus remain subject to the transaction exposures that arise from foreign exchange movements between the date that the transactions are recorded and the date cash is received. Continued fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The long sales cycle, customer evaluation process, and implementation period of our products may increase the costs of securing sales and reduce the predictability of our earnings. Our products are technologically complex, and prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate performance and capability, and then to install and integrate them into larger systems. As a result, our sales process is often subject to the evaluation and approval delays that are typically associated with large capital expenditures. The sales cycles for our products often last for many months or even years, and orders expected in one quarter may shift to another or be cancelled entirely because of customers’ budgetary constraints or internal acceptance reviews. Longer sales cycles require us to invest significant resources in attempting to secure sales that may not be realized in the short term, and therefore may delay or prevent the generation of revenue. The time required for our customers to incorporate our product into their system can also vary significantly, which further complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our operating results. Our failure to keep up with the rapid pace of technological change and new product development would harm our ability to compete. The intelligent automation industry is characterized by rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. We must anticipate trends in our customers’ industries and develop products before our customers’ products are commercialized, because many of our products are used by our customers to develop, manufacture, and test their own products. If we do not accurately predict our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest substantial resources in developing and marketing products that do not achieve broad market acceptance. Furthermore, if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products meeting customers’ changing technical specifications on a timely and cost-effective basis, we could lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. We also must make decisions about whether or not to develop and offer products to a given market, and if our judgment about the size, growth, and profitability of that market is incorrect, our business and results of operations could be harmed. The market for intelligent automation products is intensely competitive, which may make it difficult to grow our business or to maintain or enhance our profitability. We compete with a number of robot, motion control, machine vision, and simulation software companies, and many of them have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, and marketing resources than we do. 15 Table of Contents Our competitors in the robot market include integrated manufacturers that produce robotics equipment for internal use, and also compete with our products for sales to other customers. Because they can generate substantial unit volumes to satisfy internal demand, these competitors may have greater flexibility in pricing than we do. During the current recession, we have experienced aggressive price reductions and other accommodations by our competitors. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products are: • product features, functionality, and ease of use; • price; • customer service; and • delivery including timeliness, predictability, and reliability of delivery commitment dates. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and our investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and support activities may be insufficient to maintain our competitive advantage. Increased competitive pressure could result in a loss of sales or market share, and could force us to lower prices for our products. Any of these results could harm our business. The growth of our business depends upon the development and successful commercial acceptance of our new products. Our failure to develop, manufacture, and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset a decline in revenue from existing products or to successfully manage product and related inventory transitions could harm our business. We depend upon a variety of factors to ensure that our new and enhanced products are successfully commercialized, including timely and efficient completion of design and development, implementation of manufacturing processes, and effective sales, marketing, and customer service. Because of the complexity of our products, significant delays may occur in the introduction of new products, or between a product’s initial introduction and commencement of volume production. The development and commercialization of new products involve many difficulties, including: • identification of new product opportunities; • retention and hiring of appropriate research and development personnel; • determination of the product’s technical specifications; • successful completion of the development process; • successful marketing of the product and achieving customer acceptance of new products; and • additional customer service and warranty costs associated with supporting new product introductions and/or effecting subsequent potential field upgrades. The development of new products has required, and will require, that we expend significant financial and management resources. We cannot be certain that we will receive significant, if any, revenue from these investments in development. If we are unable to continue to successfully develop new products in response to customer requirements or technological changes, or our new products are not commercially successful, our business and operating results may be harmed. We do not generally have long-term contracts with our customers, and our backlog cannot be relied upon as a future indicator of sales. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and existing contracts and purchase commitments may be cancelled under certain circumstances. As a result, we are exposed to competitive price pressures on every customer order, and our agreements with customers do not provide meaningful assurance of future sales. Furthermore, our customers are not required to make minimum purchases and may cease purchasing our products at any time without penalty. Our backlog should not be relied on as a measure of anticipated 16 Table of Contents demand for our products or future revenue, because the orders constituting our backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules and may be subject to cancellation without significant penalty to the customer. Any reductions, cancellations or deferrals in customer orders would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We market and sell our products primarily through an indirect channel comprised of third party resellers, and are subject to certain risks associated with this method of product marketing and distribution. We believe that our ability to sell products to systems integrators and OEMs will continue to be important to our success. However, our relationships with these partners are generally not exclusive, and we cannot control the timing or amount of their procurement or marketing of our products. Some of the systems integrators and OEMs who sell our products may also expend a significant amount of effort or give higher priority to selling products of our competitors. If they choose to promote competing products or simply fail to market our products successfully, our revenue could decrease. Furthermore, any of our system integrators or OEMs could simply discontinue their relationships with us, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. As we enter new geographic and applications markets, we must locate and establish relationships with system integrators and OEMs to assist us in building sales in those markets. Because of product integration expenses and the large amount of training required, it can take a significant amount of time and resources to establish a profitable relationship with a system integrator or OEM. We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining an effective relationship with new system integrators or OEMs, and our failure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot identify and acquire other technologies and products, our ability to expand operations and increase revenue may be impaired. We are continually exploring merger and acquisition opportunities, and expect that acquisitions of complementary products and technologies in the future will likely play an important role in our ability to expand our operations and increase our revenue. Our ability to make acquisitions is restricted by our cash constraints, as well as the level and volatility of our common stock price and its thin trading volume, which affects our liquidity and makes equity transactions more expensive. If we are unable to identify suitable targets for acquisition or complete acquisitions on acceptable terms, our ability to expand our product and/or service offerings and increase our revenue will be impaired. Our acquisition of MRI and any future acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, increase our expenses, and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We recently acquired MRI and we may acquire other businesses that offer products, services, and technologies that management believes will further our strategic objectives. Our acquisition of MRI and any other business presents risks associated with these types of transactions, including: • difficulties in combining the product offerings, operations, or workforce of an acquired business; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the loss of key personnel or customers from either our current business or the acquired company’s business; • adverse effects on existing relationships with suppliers and customers; • disruptions of our on-going businesses; • difficulties in realizing our financial and strategic objectives through successful integration of the acquired business; • negative impact on results of operations due to goodwill impairment write-offs, amortization of intangible assets other than goodwill, or assumption of anticipated liabilities; 17 Table of Contents • risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no previous experience; • assumption of unanticipated problems or liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the acquired company’s product; and • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations. The risks described above, either individually or in the aggregate, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that any future acquisitions could provide for consideration to be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock, which could result in dilution of our stockholders’ equity interest. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. Our products could have unknown defects or errors which may give rise to claims against us, increase our expenses, or harm our reputation. Our hardware and software products are complex and despite extensive testing, our new or existing products or enhancements may contain defects, errors or performance problems. Any defects or errors could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or warranty charges, harm customer relationships, and result in loss of market share. Furthermore, these problems could harm our reputation and future business prospects. We expect and aim to generate increasing amounts of revenue from sales of recently released products. As a result, the negative impact on our business resulting from defects in such products could be significant. The existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products could also lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us, our channel partners, or against our customers. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. Additionally, as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. Any claim could result in significant legal defense costs, divert management’s attention and resources, harm our reputation, and negatively impact our business and financial condition. Our failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology may significantly impair our competitive advantage. Our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology and trade secrets. We primarily rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret protection, licenses, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights, but have not always sought patent, registration, or similar protection on our technology where it may have been available. The steps we have taken, as well as applicable law, may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property or to provide us with any commercial advantage. The process of obtaining patent protection can be time consuming and costly, and our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to uncertainty and general litigation risks. We may face costly intellectual property infringement claims. Allegations of intellectual property infringement by our existing or future products may arise and could include claims against us, our manufacturers, our suppliers, or even our customers. Because there are numerous patents in the automation components industry, it is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the intellectual property rights of others. As a result, we may be forced to respond to intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customer’s rights. Regardless of merit, these claims could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays. In settling these claims, we may be required to cease selling subject products or services, pay damages, redesign the challenged technology, or enter into unfavorable royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. Any of these could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our investments in certain new markets and sales to the government subject Adept to increased regulation and potential product liability, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in these markets or that risks related to these industries or the government will not have an adverse affect on our business. Our systems and controls are sold in a variety of industries, including solar, packaging and medical, among others. Our penetration of the packaging market for food and certain other regulated items where we see potential revenue growth also requires additional costs to fulfill necessary certification and compliance processes. As part of our increased focus on the medical market, we have increased our strategic focus on sales for certain applications that are highly regulated, including computer assisted robot-based surgical procedures, the manufacture of medical devices, and the automation of repetitive operations in diagnostic and pharmaceutical labs. Furthermore, as we start to engage in certain activities in the medical industry, we must ensure that our products and systems comply with various regulatory requirements relevant to medical applications. This will increase certain costs necessary for the operation of our business, and our failure to obtain or maintain compliance with these requirements could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or subject us to regulatory actions or fines. As we penetrate new markets, our business exposure to product liability claims increases. For example, the medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we could face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our product is involved in an injury or death. Any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also subject us to product liability lawsuits in our target markets. Historically, our operations and sales in other industries has not subjected us to a significant risk of legal claims and product liability lawsuits. Additionally, our Adept MobileRobots business is party to government contracts and subject to additional regulation as a governmental contractor. This business is not material to Adept’s financial results, but failure to comply with the applicable regulations requires us to use resources to effect a compliance program and our failure to effectively comply could adversely affect our operations Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could harm our business. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, and disposal of certain hazardous substances used in the manufacturing and assembly of our products. We believe that we are currently in compliance with all material environmental regulations in connection with our manufacturing operations, and that we have obtained all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. However, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in penalties or liabilities, and could curtail our operations. Environmental regulation is expected to increase in the foreseeable future, and compliance with new or existing regulations could require us to adopt more complexity in our product design, acquire expensive remediation equipment, or to otherwise incur substantial expenses increasing our cost of operations. Our success depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-qualified personnel. Our inability to attract, train, motivate, and retain qualified management, sales, and technical personnel on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to manage our operations. It could also adversely affect our ability to design, manufacture, market, support and sell our products, in addition to our ability to meet our requirements as a public company. However, many of the companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater resources than we do. In addition, in making employment decisions in the technology industry, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain technical personnel. If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed personnel, incur liability for damages, and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. Frequently when employees in our industry leave their employer and accept a position with a competitor, the original employer will claim that the competitor engaged in unfair hiring practices, or that the employment of 19 Table of Contents that person would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. This type of claim could prevent us from hiring certain personnel, or could cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. Defending against any claims could divert the attention of our management away from our operations, and could negatively impact our business. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Under Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to make certain assessments and certifications regarding our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated significant management, financial and other resources to our efforts to comply with these requirements, including significant actions to develop, evaluate, and test our internal controls but cannot provide absolute assurances. A failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in inaccurate or late reporting of our financial results, an investigation by regulatory authorities, a loss of investor confidence, a decrease in the trading price of our common stock and could expose us to costly litigation or regulatory proceedings. Our restructuring efforts may not be effective, might have unintended consequences, and could negatively impact our business. From time to time, we have restructured our operations in response to changes in the economic environment, our industry and demand. In order to lower our operating costs, during fiscal 2009 we implemented and completed restructuring actions that included reducing headcount and employee and officer salaries, closing or consolidating certain Adept sites, consolidating certain functional activities, and outsourcing additional business activities. Despite our efforts to structure the company and business to operate in a cost-effective manner while adequately facing competitive pressures and fulfilling customer needs, some cost-cutting measures could have unexpected consequences and a negative impact on our business. While our restructuring efforts resulted in cost reductions we had anticipated, we cannot be certain that all restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will not be required to implement additional restructuring activities in the future. If we are unable to structure our operations effectively or if we face costly termination claims, our current or future business operations and prospects could be harmed. The concentration of our equity ownership in a small number of stockholders could adversely affect the liquidity and market price of our securities, and may permit a small number of stockholders to influence the results of stockholder decisions. We currently have approximately 9,377,000 shares of common stock outstanding. A small number of holders beneficially own a substantial portion of our total outstanding equity securities. These securities are generally freely tradable or subject to registration statements permitting their sale with little or no restriction. This may affect the trading market for our stock, and could control the results of matters requiring stockholder approval, which may delay or prevent a change of control or negatively affect our stock price. At June 30, 2010, options to purchase approximately 1,236,000 shares of our common stock were outstanding under our equity compensation plans, and approximately an additional 854,000 shares of common stock were reserved for future grant and issuance under such plans. We can also issue shares under our employee stock purchase plan, which had approximately 554,000 shares available for issuance at June 30, 2010. Shares of common stock issued under these plans are generally freely tradable in the public market, subject to certain limitations applicable to our affiliates. The vesting of restricted stock and exercise of options could significantly increase the number of common shares outstanding, thereby diluting the ownership interests of our existing stockholders and could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock, particularly due to our low trading volume. We have also issued approximately 763,000 shares of common stock in connection with our acquisition of MRI. Our use of equity to raise additional financing or as consideration in connection with a future acquisition or other transaction could also result in the further dilution of our stockholders’ equity interest. 20 Table of Contents Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. Our trading volume is limited, and the market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past. Our stock price may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future in response to a variety of factors, including: • fluctuations in operating results; • our liquidity needs and constraints; • the effectiveness of cost control measures; • changes in our business focus and operational organization; • our restructuring activities and changes in management and other personnel; • the limited trading of our common stock on NASDAQ; • the business environment, including the operating results and stock prices of companies in the industries we serve; • general conditions in the intelligent automation industry; • announcements concerning our business or that of our competitors or customers; • the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • litigation or claims relating to the volatility of our common stock, internal controls, proprietary rights or other matters; • developments in the financial markets; and • perceived dilution from stock issuances. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws or Delaware law might discourage or delay a change of control of our company and depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and applicable Delaware law may discourage or prevent a merger or a change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our directors. These provisions include, without limitation: • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations, although proxy access would facilitate stockholder nomination of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and • the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions and Delaware law deter potential acquirers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 