Item 1A. Risk Factors. We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those indicated by forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of the Company. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Our Growth Is Partially Dependent on New Store Openings and Acquisitions Our strategy is to expand through a combination of new store openings and, to a lesser extent, acquisitions of existing stores. Successful implementation of this strategy is contingent on numerous conditions, some of which are described below, and there can be no assurance that our expansion strategy can be successfully executed. Our continued growth depends to a significant degree on our ability to open or acquire new stores in existing and new markets and to operate these stores successfully. Our expansion strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense competition from other retailers for such sites. We may not be able to timely open new stores or operate them 13 Table of Contents successfully. In addition, we may not be able to successfully hire and train new team members or integrate those team members into the programs and policies of the Company. We may not be able to adapt our distribution, management information and other operating systems to adequately supply products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the stores in a successful and profitable manner. There can be no assurance that we will continue to grow through acquisitions. For the acquisitions that we do make, we may not be able to successfully integrate those businesses into our operations and support systems, or the operations of acquired businesses may be adversely affected by the introduction of our decentralized operational approach. The integration of acquired operations into our operations requires the dedication of management resources that may temporarily detract attention from our day-to-day business. We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Comparable Store Sales Our comparable store sales in the future could fluctuate or be lower than our historical average for many reasons including new and acquired stores entering into the comparable store base, the opening of new stores that cannibalize store sales in existing markets, increased competition, price changes in response to competitive factors, possible supply shortages, and cycling against above-average sales results in the prior year. Results of operations may be materially impacted by fluctuations in our comparable store sales as it becomes more difficult to leverage expenses at a lower level of sales. We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Quarterly Operating Results Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate for many reasons, including losses from new stores, variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors, increases in store operating costs, possible supply shortages, extreme weather-related disruptions, and potential uninsured casualty losses or other losses. In addition, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as the result of the timing of new store openings, the timing of acquisitions, the range of operating results generated from newly opened stores and changes in estimates associated with the disposal of discontinued operations. Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and may be materially impacted by the timing of new store openings. Increased Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Profitability Our competitors currently include other natural foods supermarkets, conventional and specialty supermarkets, other natural foods stores, small specialty stores and restaurants. These businesses compete with us in one or more product categories. In addition, some traditional and specialty supermarkets are expanding more aggressively in marketing a range of natural foods, thereby competing directly with us for products, customers and locations. Some of these potential competitors may have been in business longer or may have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. Increased competition may have an adverse effect on profitability as the result of lower sales, lower gross profits and/or greater operating costs such as marketing. Our Business May be Sensitive to Economic Conditions that Impact Consumer Spending Our results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to our competitors. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Legal Proceedings Could Materially Impact Our Results From time to time, we are party to legal proceedings including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Although not currently anticipated by management, our results could be materially impacted by the decisions and expenses related to pending or future proceedings. We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People Are Harmed By the Products We Sell There is increasing governmental scrutiny of and public awareness regarding food safety. We believe that many customers choose to shop our stores because of their interest in health, nutrition and food safety. We believe that our customers hold us to a higher food safety standard than conventional supermarkets. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in product liability claims, the settlement or outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations. 14 Table of Contents The Loss of Key Management Could Negatively Affect Our Business We are dependent upon a number of key management and other team members. If we were to lose the services of a significant number of key team members within a short period of time, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain key person insurance on any team member. Our continued success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified team members to meet our future growth needs. We face intense competition for qualified team members, many of whom are subject to offers from competing employers. We may not be able to attract and retain necessary team members to operate our business. Union Attempts to Organize Our Team Members and Informational Picketing May Disrupt Our Business Unions have from time to time attempted to organize our team members or portions of our team member base at certain stores and non-retail facilities. Responding to such organization attempts requires substantial management and team member time and can be disruptive to operations. In addition, our new and existing stores have from time to time been subjected to informational picketing and negative publicity campaigns by members of various local trade unions. Any of these union activities may have a negative financial effect on a store, facility or the Company as a whole. Unfavorable Changes in Government Regulation Could Harm Our Business Our stores are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and administrative practices affecting our business, and we must comply with provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, food labeling, equal employment, minimum wages and licensing for the sale of food and, in some stores, alcoholic beverages. Our new store openings could be delayed or prevented or our existing stores could be impacted by difficulties or failures in our ability to obtain or maintain required approvals or licenses. The manufacturing, processing, formulating, packaging, labeling and advertising of products are subject to regulation by various federal agencies including the FDA, FTC, CPSC, USDA and EPA. The composition and labeling of nutritional supplements are most actively regulated by the FDA under the provisions of the FFDC Act. The FFDC Act has been revised in recent years with respect to dietary supplements by the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act and by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act. The USDA’s Organic Rule, implemented into federal law on October 21, 2002, should facilitate interstate commerce and the marketing of fresh and processed food that is organically produced and should also provide an assurance to our customers that such products meet consistent, uniform standards. Compliance with this rule might pose a significant burden on some of our suppliers, which may cause a disruption in some of our product offerings. We cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, or determine what effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the Availability of Quality Natural and Organic Products Could Impact Our Business There is no assurance that quality natural and organic products will be available to meet our future needs. If conventional supermarkets increase their natural and organic product offerings or if new laws require the reformulation of certain products to meet tougher standards, the supply of these products may be constrained. Any significant disruption in the supply of quality natural and organic products could have a material impact on our overall sales and cost of goods. Perishable Foods Product Losses Could Materially Impact Our Results We believe our stores more heavily emphasize perishable products than conventional supermarket stores. Perishable products accounted for approximately 68% of our total retail sales in fiscal year 2005. The Company’s emphasis on perishable products may result in significant product inventory losses in the event of extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. Our Stock Price Is Volatile The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to various market factors and events. These market factors and events include variations in our earnings results, changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts, publicity regarding us, our competitors, the natural products industry generally, new statutes or regulations or 15 Table of Contents changes in the interpretation of existing statutes or regulations affecting the natural products industry specifically, sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations also may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Changes in the Number of Stock Option Exercises Could Impact Our Cash Flow Our cash flow from the exercise of team member stock options may be adversely affected in the future by fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, changes in income tax law, and changes in the number of stock options we grant. Capital Needed for Expansion May Not Be Available The acquisition of existing stores, the opening of new stores, and the development of new production and distribution facilities require significant amounts of capital. In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through proceeds from public offerings, bank debt, private placements of debt, internally generated cash flow, and proceeds from stock option exercises. These and other sources of capital may not be available to us in the future. In addition, restrictive covenants that may be imposed by our lenders may restrict our ability to fund our growth. Information System Upgrades or Integrations May Disrupt Our Operations or Financial Reporting We continually evaluate and upgrade our management information systems. We have completed a number of acquisitions in recent years, and the information systems at some of the acquired operations have not been fully integrated with our information systems. Although we do not anticipate any disruption in our operations or financial reporting as a result of system upgrades or system integrations, there can be no assurance that such disruption will not occur or that the desired benefits from the system upgrades will be realized. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright law and internal procedures and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products may be produced or sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Failure to protect our proprietary information could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Self-Insurance Plan Claims Could Materially Impact Our Results The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for the potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, general liability, property insurance, director and officers’ liability insurance, vehicle liability and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the Company are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Although not currently anticipated by management, our results could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses related to such plans if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Effective Tax Rate Changes and Results of Examinations by Taxing Authorities Could Materially Impact Our Results Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in states or countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in states or countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other state and local taxing authorities. Although not currently anticipated by management, our results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related to these and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 