ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors that are difficult to forecast, are often out of our control and can be extremely volatile. Our past revenues and other operating results may not be accurate indicators of our future performance, and you should not rely on such results to predict our future performance. Our operating results have been subject to significant fluctuations in the past, and could be subject to fluctuations in the future. The factors that may contribute to these fluctuations include: • fluctuations in aggregate capital spending, cyclicality and other economic conditions domestically and internationally in one or more industries in which we sell our products; • changes or reductions in demand in the disk drive/electronics, automotive, packaging, medical, solar and other markets we serve; • a change in market acceptance of our products or a shift in demand for our products; • changes in our strategy and organizational changes made to execute changes in our strategy; • new product introductions by us or by our competitors; • changes in product mix and pricing by us, our suppliers or our competitors; • pricing and related availability of components and raw materials for our products; • our failure to manufacture a sufficient volume of products in a timely and cost-effective manner; • our failure to anticipate the changing product requirements of our customers; • changes in the mix of sales by distribution channels; • our ability to effectively manage our working capital; • impact of new accounting pronouncements; • exchange rate fluctuations; • shifts in geographic concentration of our sales or operations between domestic and international; • seasonal fluctuations in demand and our associated revenue, for which demand is generally lower in the first half of the fiscal year; • costs incurred in connection with compliance with SEC and NASDAQ requirements; • costs incurred in connection with regulatory compliance for the industries we serve; • our ability to expand our product offerings through acquired technologies and products; and • extraordinary events such as litigation, product liability claims or mergers and acquisitions activity, and unforeseen costs in international or industry expansion. Revenue levels also impact our gross margins. Our gross margins can vary greatly for a number of reasons, and our operating results tend to fluctuate as a result of the variance in gross margins. The mix of products we sell can vary from period to period, particularly with respect to the volume of lower margin hardware products (such as mechanical subsystems purchased from third party vendors) and higher margin controller products or robotics 10 Table of Contents mechanisms. While we intend to more aggressively pursue opportunities to sell our higher margin products, we cannot give any assurances regarding the growth of our sales of these products in the future. Other factors that impact gross margins include costs listed above and: • currency exchange rate fluctuations for our international sales; • the average selling prices of products we sell including changes in the average discounts offered; • the costs to manufacture, service and support our products and enhancements; • the costs to customize our systems; • the volume of products produced and associated production volume variances, if any, generated; • our efforts to enter new markets, in particular the growth of our sales in Asia; and • certain inventory-related costs including obsolescence of products and component demand changes resulting in excess inventory. We generally recognize product revenues upon shipment or, for certain international sales, upon receipt by customers. As a result, our net revenues and results of operations for a fiscal period will be affected by the timing of orders received and orders shipped during the period. A significant percentage of our product shipments occur in the last month of each fiscal quarter. Historically, this has been due, in part, to our inability to forecast the level of demand for our products or the product mix for a particular fiscal quarter. To address this problem we periodically stock inventory levels of completed robots, machine controllers and certain strategic components. A delay in shipments near the end of a fiscal period, for example, due to product development delays or delays in obtaining materials, may cause sales to fall below expectations and harm our operating results for the period. Similarly, our indirect costs, production capacity and operating expenses are largely fixed in the short run. Continued investments in research and development, capital equipment and ongoing customer service and support capabilities, in addition to the expense of being a public reporting company and executing a growth strategy, result in significant fixed costs that we cannot reduce rapidly or at all. As a result, if our sales for a particular fiscal period are below expected levels, our cost of revenue increases and our operating results for the period could be materially adversely affected. Further, if shipments of our products fail to meet forecasted levels, the increased inventory levels and increased operating expenses in anticipation of sales that do not materialize could adversely affect our business and substantially impact our liquidity. In the event that in some fiscal quarter our net revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may fall. We may not be able to increase or sustain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. We are subject to lawsuits relating to our Livermore facilities which could be expensive and disruptive. We are currently engaged in litigation with the landlord of our Livermore, California facilities. Our landlord has initiated multiple lawsuits seeking to remove Adept from its Livermore facility in an unlawful detainer action and declaratory relief in favor of its interpretation of a lease termination agreement, and alleging damages exceeding an alleged $1 million termination fee it claims is due from Adept and additionally making claims for tortious interference with a lease with a new lessee and potentially lost lease payments for its entire new 13-year lease of the Livermore facilities with a new tenant, plus attorneys fees and costs. Such litigation have been, and are expected to continue to be, costly and time consuming and could divert management’s attention from our day-to-day operations. In addition, in connection with this litigation, we may choose to or be forced to move our operations from our Livermore facilities in a very short timeframe, which could be disruptive to our operations. If our defense is not successful in one or all of the litigation matters, we may be liable to pay our landlord damages. We cannot assure you that such litigation will be ultimately resolved in our favor or that an adverse outcome will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if this lawsuit is ultimately resolved in favor of Adept, Adept still expects that it would incur substantial legal fees and expenses in defending the lawsuits. 11 Table of Contents Our international operations and sales and foreign suppliers subject us to foreign currency exchange risks, divergent regulatory requirements and other financial and operating risks outside of our control that may harm our operating results. We have significant and expanding operations outside the United States and a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from non-U.S. sales. International sales represented 68% and 60% of revenues for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also purchase some critical components and mechanical subsystems from, and increasingly rely upon, foreign suppliers. As a result, our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international sales and purchases, which include the following: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • political, military and economic changes and disruptions, including terrorist activity; • transportation costs and delays; • foreign currency fluctuations; • export/import controls; • tariff regulations and other trade barriers; • higher freight rates; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales, service and manufacturing operations; • stringent local jurisdictional requirements regarding employees and union activity; • greater difficulty in and longer time required for accounts receivable collection in foreign jurisdictions; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Ongoing global economic and political developments and the resulting changes in currency exchange rates, most notably between the U.S. dollar, the euro, and the Japanese yen, have had, and may in the future have, a significant effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The decline in value of the U.S. dollar to the euro in fiscal 2005 through 2008 resulted in a currency exchange gain for us, and future fluctuations may result in significant gains or losses. If there is an increase in the rate at which a foreign currency exchanges into U.S. dollars and the dollar appreciates relative to the foreign currency, it will take more of the foreign currency to equal the same amount of U.S. dollars than before the rate increase. Additionally, we make yen-denominated purchases of certain components and mechanical subsystems from certain of our sole or single source Japanese suppliers and thus remain subject to the transaction exposures that arise from foreign exchange movements between the dates foreign currency export sales or purchase transactions are recorded and the dates cash is received or payments are made in foreign currencies. Our non-U.S. operations use its respective local currency as the functional currency. In Europe, we manufacture locally and thereby incur a greater part of our costs and expenses in the local currency. Our Asian headquarters in Singapore incurs a high percentage of local currency expenses. These operations result in exposure to currency exchange risk. Continued change in the values of the euro, yen or changes in the values of other foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately two-thirds of our revenues come from international sales and collection times on those sales are longer because of longer delivery times, time required to clear customs, and generally slower payment patterns in some international markets. If our international sales increase, delays in receiving payment in connection with such sales may also have a greater impact on our revenue and liquidity. In addition to our international sales, maintaining operations in different countries requires us to expend significant resources to keep our operations coordinated and subjects us to differing laws and regulatory regimes that may affect our offerings and revenue. 12 Table of Contents We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow in the past, and our doing so in the future could impair our operations and revenue-generating activities and adversely affect our results of operations. We currently depend on funds generated from operating activities to meet our operating requirements and execute on our growth plan. Our $5 million credit facility, under which no amounts had been borrowed, recently expired, and therefore we do not intend to renew or replace it at this time. Because of certain regulatory restrictions impeding our ability to move certain cash reserves from our foreign operations to our U.S. operations, we may have limited access to a portion of our existing cash balances. In the past, we have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow. If our projected revenue falls below current estimates or if operating expenses exceed current expectations, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop or enhance new products to an extent desirable to execute our strategic growth plan, pursue acquisitions that would complement our existing product offerings or enhance our technical capabilities to fully execute our business plan or otherwise adequately respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Any of these actions would adversely impact our business and results of operations. The long sales cycle, customer evaluation process, and implementation period of our products may increase the costs of obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our earnings. Our products are technologically complex. Prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate our products and to install and integrate them into larger systems. Orders expected in one quarter may shift to another quarter or be cancelled with little advance notice as a result of customers’ budgetary constraints, internal acceptance reviews, and other factors affecting the timing of customers’ purchase decisions. In addition, customers often require a significant number of product presentations and demonstrations, in some instances evaluating equipment on site, before reaching a sufficient level of confidence in the product’s performance and compatibility with the customer’s requirements to place an order. As a result, our sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy evaluation and approvals that typically accompany capital expenditure approval processes. The sales cycles of our products often last for many months or even years. In addition, the time required for our customers to incorporate our products into their systems can vary significantly with the needs of our customers and generally exceeds several months, which further complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our operating results. Longer sales cycles require us to invest significant resources in attempting to secure sales, which may not be realized in the near term and therefore may delay or prevent the generation of revenue. In addition, should our financial condition deteriorate, prospective customers may be reluctant to purchase our products, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. Sales of our products depend on the capital spending patterns of our customers, which tend to be cyclical; we have experienced reduced demand in some of the industries in which we operate, which has and may continue to adversely affect our revenue and we may not be able to quickly ramp up if demand significantly increases. Intelligent automation systems using our products can range in price from $25,000 to $500,000. Accordingly, our success is directly dependent upon the capital expenditure budgets of our customers. Our future operations may be subject to substantial fluctuations as a consequence of domestic and foreign economic conditions, industry patterns and other factors affecting capital spending. Domestic or international recessions or a downturn in one or more of our major markets, such as the solar, electronic/communications, packaging or European automotive or industrial industries, and any resulting cutbacks in capital spending would have a direct, negative impact on our business. Downturns in the industries we serve often occur in connection with, or anticipation of, maturing product cycles for both companies and their customers as well as declines in general economic conditions. Industry downturns have been characterized by reduced demand for devices and equipment, production over-capacity and accelerated decline in average selling prices. During a period of declining demand, we must be able to quickly and 13 Table of Contents effectively reduce expenses while at the same time, continue to motivate and retain key employees. In the last few years, we have seen demand from traditional U.S. manufacturing markets decline. We implemented a worldwide restructuring program at the end of fiscal 2007 and early fiscal 2008 to realign our businesses to the changes in our industry and our customers’ decrease in capital spending. However, our ability to reduce expenses in response to any downturn in any of our industries is limited by our need for continued investment in engineering and research and development and extensive ongoing customer service and support requirements, in addition to administrative costs that we incur as a public company. The long lead-time for production and delivery of some of our products creates a risk that we may incur expenditures or purchase inventories for products that we cannot sell. We believe our future performance will continue to be affected by the cyclical nature of the industries in which we participate, and thus, any future downturn in these industries could therefore harm our revenue and gross margin if demand drops or average selling prices decline. Upturns in industries such as disk drive or electronics have been characterized by abrupt increases in demand for devices and equipment as well as production under-capacity. During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to quickly increase our manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand and hire and assimilate a sufficient number of qualified personnel to service our customers. Our inability to ramp-up in times of increased demand could harm our reputation and cause some of our existing or potential customers to place orders with our competitors. We have engaged in substantial restructuring activities in the past, and may need to implement further restructurings in the future, and our restructuring efforts may negatively impact our business. The intelligent automation industry is subject to rapid change, including shifts between particular markets and geographies that actively purchase and implement automation systems. These changes can have a substantial impact on our business, as our sales into established markets may decrease more rapidly than our sales into new markets, resulting in insufficient revenue levels compared to our operational overhead and product investment. From time to time, we have responded to such changes by restructuring our operations. At the end of fiscal 2007, we restructured our operations to lower fixed operating costs and redistribute sales and engineering resources to our higher growth target markets. The restructuring included headcount reductions and the closure or consolidation of certain Adept sites in Canada and the U.S., consolidation of certain sales activities in the Company’s Singapore location, the realignment of our sales force to address target vertical markets and additional outsourcing for the manufacture of non-core functions and standard products. Despite our efforts to structure our company and our business to operate in a cost-effective manner while adequately facing competitive pressures and fulfilling customer needs, we cannot assure you that the reductions in sites, workforce and other cost-cutting measures will not harm our future business operations and prospects. We also cannot be certain that we will not be required to implement further restructuring activities, make additions or other changes to our management or reductions in workforce based on other cost reduction measures or changes in the markets and industry in which we compete. Our inability to structure our operations based on evolving market conditions could negatively impact our business. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and negative impacts on the business, and we cannot be sure that any future restructuring efforts will be successful. We have significant dependence on outsourced manufacturing capabilities and single source suppliers. If we experience disruptions in the supply of one or more key components, we may be unable to meet product demand and we may lose customers and suffer decreased revenue. We outsource a predominant portion of our manufacturing function. We obtain many key components and materials and most of our mechanical subsystems from sole or single source suppliers with whom we have no guaranteed supply arrangements. In addition, some of our sole or single sourced components and mechanical subsystems incorporated into our products have long procurement lead times. Our increased reliance on outsourced manufacturing and other capabilities, and particularly our reliance on sole or single source suppliers, involves certain significant risks including: • loss of control over the manufacturing process decreasing our flexibility in meeting customer delivery requirements and in reducing the cost of our products; 14 Table of Contents • potential absence of adequate supplier capacity; • potential for significant price increases in the components and mechanical subsystems; • potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, materials or mechanical subsystems; and • reduced control over manufacturing yields, costs, timely delivery, reliability and quality of components, materials and mechanical subsystems. We do not have contracts with certain of our sole or single source suppliers. If any one of our suppliers were unable or unwilling to manufacture the components, materials or mechanical subsystems we need in the volumes we require, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements. The process of qualifying suppliers may be lengthy, and additional sources may not be available to us on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all. If sufficient quantities of these items were not available from our existing suppliers and a relationship with an alternative vendor could not be developed in a timely manner, shipments of our products could be interrupted and reengineering of these products could be required. We have limited control over the quality of certain manufactured products and their acceptance by our customers. In the past, we have experienced quality control or specification problems with certain key components provided by sole source suppliers, and have had to design around the particular flawed item. Any quality issues could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost sales, and increased warranty costs. In addition, some of the components that we use in our products are in short supply. In the past, we have also experienced delays in filling customer orders due to the failure of certain suppliers to meet our volume and schedule requirements. Some of our suppliers have also ceased manufacturing components that we require for our products, and we have been required to purchase sufficient supplies for the estimated life of such product line. Problems of this nature with our suppliers may occur in the future. Disruption, significant price increases, or termination of our supply sources could require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay our product shipments and damage relationships with current and prospective customers, require us to absorb a significant price increase or risk pricing ourselves out of the market, or prevent us from taking other business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we incorrectly forecast product mix for a particular period and we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of any components or mechanical subsystems on a timely and cost effective basis due to long procurement lead times, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be substantially impaired. Moreover, if demand for a product for which we have purchased a substantial amount of components fails to meet our expectations, or due to component price increases causes us to be priced out of the market, we would be required to write off the excess inventory. A prolonged inability to obtain adequate timely deliveries of key components or obtain components at prices within our business model could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are considering outsourcing our information technology functions, which will make us more dependent upon third parties. In an effort to increase our information technology, or IT, capabilities and reduce potential disruptions, we are considering outsourcing almost all of our information technology functions. If we outsource our IT functions, as is the case with our outsourced manufacturing, we will be relying on third parties to ensure that our IT needs are sufficiently met. This reliance subjects us to risks arising from the loss of control over IT processes, changes in pricing that may affect our operating results, and potentially, termination of provision of these services by our supplier. A failure of our service providers to perform may have a significant adverse affect on our business. Our business will decline if we cannot keep up with the rapid pace of technological change and new product development that characterize the intelligent automation industry. The intelligent automation industry is characterized by rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Our ability to remain competitive greatly depends upon the technological quality of our products and processes compared to those of our competitors and our ability both to continue to develop new and 15 Table of Contents enhanced products and to introduce those products at competitive prices and on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be successful in selecting, developing, and manufacturing new products or in enhancing our existing products on a timely basis or at all. Our new or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance. Our failure to successfully select, develop, and manufacture new products, or to timely enhance existing technologies and meet customers’ technical specifications for any new products or enhancements on a timely basis, or to successfully market new products, could harm our business. If we cannot successfully develop and manufacture new products or meet specifications, our products could lose market share, our revenue and profits could decline, or we could experience operating losses. New technology or product introductions by our competitors could also cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance for our existing products or force us to significantly reduce the prices of our existing products. Growth of our business depends upon the development and successful commercial acceptance of our new products. From time to time, we have experienced delays in the introduction of, and certain technical and manufacturing difficulties with, some of our products, and we may experience technical and manufacturing difficulties and delays in future introductions of new products and enhancements. Our failure to develop, manufacture, and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset a decline in revenue from existing products or to successfully manage product and related inventory transitions could harm our business. Our success in developing, introducing, selling, and supporting new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including timely and efficient completion of hardware and software design and development, implementation of manufacturing processes, and effective sales, marketing, and customer service. Because of the complexity of our products, significant delays may occur between a product’s initial introduction and commencement of volume production. The development and commercialization of new products involve many difficulties, including: • the identification of new product opportunities; • the retention and hiring of appropriate research and development personnel; • the determination of the product’s technical specifications; • the successful completion of the development process; • the successful marketing of the product and the risk of having customers embrace new technological advances; and • additional customer service and warranty costs associated with supporting new product introductions and/or effecting subsequent potential field upgrades. The development of new products may not be completed in a timely manner, and these products may not achieve acceptance in the market. The development of new products has required, and will require, that we expend significant financial and management resources. If we are unable to continue to successfully develop new products in response to customer requirements or technological changes, our business may be harmed. Additionally, a failure of our new products to be commercially successful may have a significant adverse impact on our operating results in the future. In connection with our cost control efforts, we have limited resources to allocate to research and development and must allocate our resources among a wide variety of projects. Because of intense competition in our industry, the cost of failing to invest in strategic products is high. If we fail to adequately invest in research and development, we may be unable to compete effectively in the intelligent automation markets in which we operate. 16 Table of Contents We are making significant investments in emerging markets, including solar, packaging and medical, which subject Adept to the risks of increased regulation and potential product liability; however, we can make no assurances of success in these target markets or that risks related to these industries will not have an adverse affect on our business. Our systems and controls are sold in a variety of industries. We have, and are continuing to, invest resources in certain emerging markets including solar, packaging and medical. There is no assurance that our products will receive market acceptance in these markets or that these markets will continue to grow at their current pace. In addition, as part of our increased focus on the medical market, we have increased our sales focus on certain applications that are highly regulated, including the manufacture of medical devices, the automation of repetitive operations in diagnostic and pharmaceutical labs, and computer assisted robot-based surgical procedures. We must obtain and monitor compliance for our products and systems with various regulatory requirements relevant to medical applications. This may increase certain costs necessary for the operation of our business. Additionally, our failure to obtain or maintain compliance with these requirements could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or subject us to regulatory actions or fines. As we further penetrate the medical market, our business exposure to product liability claims will increase. The medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we would face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause injury or death. There is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. Any weaknesses in training and services associated with our products may also be subject to product liability lawsuits. Medical applications subject us to greater risk of claims and product liability which are not a part of our historical operations or sales in other industries. We face costs and risks associated with maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting, and if we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition, and investors’ confidence in us, could be materially affected. Under Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to make certain assessments and certifications regarding our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated, and expect to continue to dedicate, significant management, financial and other resources in connection with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In our efforts to develop internal controls that comply with Section 404, we have undertaken certain actions including the preparation of an internal plan, which includes a timeline and schedule of activities for the evaluation, testing and remediation, as necessary, of internal controls. These actions have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in increased and significant expense, and have required and are likely to continue to require significant efforts by management and other employees. During the course of our evaluation, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. We have found material weaknesses in our internal controls in the past and we cannot be certain in the future that we will be able to report that our controls are without material weakness or to complete our evaluation of those controls in a timely fashion. In the future, our independent auditors must evaluate and render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that our internal control measures will be timely or successful to ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future and our independent auditors may not be able to render an unqualified attestation concerning the effectiveness of our internal controls and disclosure controls. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to rely on the integrity of our financial results, which could result in inaccurate or late reporting of our financial results and investigation by regulatory authorities. If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate 17 Table of Contents internal controls the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. In addition, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because there are inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of control can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Any failure of our internal control systems to be effective could adversely affect our business. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly-qualified managerial and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the intelligent automation industry is intense. Our inability to recruit, train, motivate and retain qualified management and technical personnel on a timely basis would adversely affect our ability to manage our operations and design, manufacture, market, and support our products, in addition to our ability to meet our requirements as a public company. We have reduced headcount in connection with our restructurings in prior fiscal years and made changes in other senior personnel which may create uncertainty for employees and cause difficulties retaining key employees. We may incur credit risk-related losses because many of the resellers we sell to are small operations with limited financial resources. Substantial portions of our sales are to system integrators that specialize in designing and building production lines for manufacturers. Many of these companies are small operations with limited financial resources, and we have from time to time experienced difficulty in collecting payments from certain of these companies. As a result, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers. To the extent we are unable to mitigate this risk of collections from system integrators, our results of operations may be harmed. In addition, due to their limited financial resources, during extended market downturns the viability of some system integrators may be in question, which would also result in a reduction in our revenue or credit losses. We do not generally have long-term contracts with our customers, and our order bookings and backlog cannot be relied upon as a future indicator of sales. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers and existing contracts and purchase commitments may, under certain circumstances, be cancelled. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide meaningful assurance of future sales. Furthermore, our customers are not required to make minimum purchases and may cease purchasing our products at any time without penalty. Backlog should not be relied on as a measure of anticipated demand for our products or future revenue, because the orders constituting our backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules and in certain instances are subject to cancellation without significant penalty to the customer. Because our customers are free to purchase products from our competitors, we are exposed to competitive price pressure on each order. Any reductions, cancellations or deferrals in customer orders could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We market and sell our products primarily through an indirect channel comprised of third party resellers, and are subject to certain risks associated with this method of product marketing and distribution. We believe that our ability to sell products to system integrators and OEMs will continue to be important to our success. However, our relationships with system integrators and OEMs are generally not exclusive, and some of 18 Table of Contents our system integrators and OEMs may expend a significant amount of effort or give higher priority to selling products of our competitors. In the future, any of our system integrators or our OEMs may discontinue their relationships with us or form additional competing arrangements with our competitors. The loss of, or a significant reduction in revenue from system integrators or OEMs to which we sell a significant amount of our product could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot control the procurement, either with respect to the timing or amount of orders placed, by our resellers. We also cannot control the sales or marketing efforts of the system integrators and OEMs who sell our products, which may result in lower revenue if they do not successfully market and sell our products or choose instead to promote competing products. As we enter new geographic and applications markets, we must locate and establish relationships with system integrators and OEMs to assist us in building sales in those markets. It can take an extended period of time and significant resources to establish a profitable relationship with a system integrator or OEM because of product integration expenses, training in product and technologies and sales training. We may not be successful in obtaining effective new system integrators or OEMs or in maintaining sales relationships with them. In the event a number of our system integrators and/or OEMs experience financial problems, terminate their relationships with us or substantially reduce the amount of our products they sell, or in the event we fail to build or maintain an effective systems integrator or OEM channel in any existing or new markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we cannot identify and make acquisitions of other technologies and products, our ability to expand our operations and increase our revenue may be impaired. A meaningful portion of our historical growth has been attributable to acquisitions of other technologies and businesses. We are continually exploring mergers and acquisitions opportunities, and expect that acquisitions of complementary products and technologies in the future will likely again play an important role in our ability to expand our operations and increase our revenue. Our ability to make acquisitions is restricted by our cash constraints, the level and volatility of our common stock price and thin trading volume affecting liquidity considerations, making equity transactions more expensive. If we are unable to identify suitable targets for acquisition or complete acquisitions on acceptable terms, our ability to expand our product and/or service offerings and increase our revenue will be impaired. Any acquisition we may make in the future could disrupt our business, increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial condition or operations. In the future we may make acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses that offer products, services, and technologies that management believes will further our strategic objectives. We cannot be certain that we would successfully integrate any businesses, technologies or personnel that we might acquire, and any acquisitions might divert our management’s attention away from our core business. Any future acquisitions or investments we might make would present risks commonly associated with these types of transactions, including: • difficulty in combining the product offerings, operations, or workforce of an acquired business; • potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; • adverse effects on existing relationships with suppliers and customers; • disruptions of our on-going businesses; • difficulties in realizing our potential financial and strategic objectives through the successful integration of the acquired business; • difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; 19 Table of Contents • potential negative impact on results of operations due to goodwill impairment write-offs, amortization of intangible assets other than goodwill, or assumption of anticipated liabilities; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited previous experience; • potential negative impact of unanticipated liabilities or litigation; and • the diversion of management attention. The risks described above, either individually or in the aggregate, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that future acquisitions, if any, could provide for consideration to be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock. In addition, we may issue additional equity in connection with future acquisitions, which could result in dilution of our stockholders’ equity interest. Fluctuations in our stock price may make acquisitions more expensive or prevent us from being able to complete acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we become subject to unfair hiring or termination claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed personnel, incur liability for damages and/or incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. Companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring personnel or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. We may also experience actions against us for employment terminations which are perceived to be unjustified. Although to date we have not experienced any material claims, defending ourselves from these claims could divert the attention of our management away from our operations. Our hardware and software products may contain defects that could increase our expenses and exposure to liabilities and or harm our reputation and future business prospects. Our hardware and software products are complex and, despite extensive testing, our new or existing products or enhancements may contain defects, errors or performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after these products or enhancements have been used in the marketplace for a period of time. We may discover product defects only after a product has been installed and used by customers. We may discover defects, errors, or performance problems in future shipments of our products. These problems could result in expensive and time consuming design modifications or large warranty charges, expose us to liability for damages, damage customer relationships, and result in loss of market share, any of which could harm our reputation and future business prospects. We generate revenue from sales of several relatively recently released products, and expect sales of our new products to increase in the current fiscal year. As a result, the negative impact on our business resulting from defects in such products could be significant. In addition, increased development and warranty costs could reduce our operating profits and could result in losses. The existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products could also lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us, our channel partners, or against our customers. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. Particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. A product liability claim or any product recalls could divert management’s attention and resources, could also harm our reputation and result in a decline in revenues and other negative impacts on our business and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents If our hardware products do not comply with standards set forth by the European Union, we will not be able to sell them in Europe. The hardware products we sell in the European Union are required to comply with European Union Low Voltage, Electro-Magnetic Compatibility and Machinery Safety directives. The European Union mandates that our products carry the CE mark denoting that these products are manufactured in strict accordance to design guidelines in support of these directives. These guidelines are subject to change and to varying interpretation. New guidelines impacting machinery design go into effect each year. We continue to use TUV Rheinland to help certify that our controller-based products, including some of our robots, meet applicable European Union directives and guidelines. Adept hardware products have been declared as exempt by TUV Rheinland from the EU Directive WEEE/RoHS (Waste Electrical and Electronics Equipment/Reduction of Hazardous Substances). Although our existing certified products meet the requirements of the applicable European Union directives, we cannot provide any assurance that future products can be designed, within market window constraints, to meet the future requirements. If any of our robot products or any other major hardware products do not meet the requirements of the European Union directives, we would be unable to legally sell these products in Europe. Thus, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Such directives and guidelines could change in the future, forcing us to redesign or withdraw from the market one or more of our existing products that may have been originally approved for sale. Our failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology may significantly impair our competitive advantage. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology and trade secrets. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret protection, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights, but have not always sought patent or similar protection on our technology where it may have been available. The steps we have taken may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The patent and trademark law and trade secret protection may not be adequate to deter third party infringement or misappropriation of our patents, trademarks, and similar proprietary rights. In addition, patents issued to Adept may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Our rights granted under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us, and the claims under our patent applications may not be allowed. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which can demand significant financial and management resources. The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. Moreover, our existing patents or any new patents that may be issued may not be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights in order to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. We may face costly intellectual property infringement claims. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties asserting that we are infringing certain patents and other intellectual property rights of others or seeking indemnification against such alleged infringement. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation could include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. There are numerous patents in the automation components industry. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the intellectual property rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be forced to respond to intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customer’s rights. These claims, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial 21 Table of Contents condition. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being forced to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • pay damages, license fees or royalties to the party claiming infringement; • stop selling products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign the challenged technology, which could be time-consuming and costly. If we were forced to take any of these actions, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates could have a material impact on our results of operations. Forecasts of our income tax position and resultant effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets and costs resulting from tax audits. To forecast our global tax rate, pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction are estimated and tax expense by jurisdiction is calculated. If the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimates, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry The market for intelligent automation products is intensely competitive, which may make it difficult to manage and grow our business or to maintain or enhance our profitability. We compete with a number of robot, motion control, machine vision, and simulation software companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, we may in the future face competition from new entrants in one or more of our markets. Many of our competitors in the robot market are integrated manufacturers of products that produce robotics equipment internally for their own use and may also compete with our products for sales to other customers. Some of these large manufacturing companies have greater flexibility in pricing because they generate substantial unit volumes of robots for internal demand and may have access through their parent companies to large amounts of capital. Any of our competitors may seek to expand their presence in other markets in which we compete. We believe that other principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products are: • product functionality and reliability; • price; • customer service; • delivery, including timeliness, predictability, and reliability of delivery commitment dates; and • product features such as flexibility, programmability, and ease of use. 22 Table of Contents Our current or potential competitors may develop products comparable or superior in terms of price and performance features to those developed by us or adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in connection with our research, development, engineering, marketing, and customer service efforts in order to meet any competitive threat, so that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We expect that in the event the intelligent automation market expands, competition in the industry will intensify as additional competitors enter our markets and current competitors expand their product lines. Increased competitive pressure could result in a loss of sales or market share or cause us to lower prices for our products, any of which could harm our business. If we are unable to effectively support the distinct needs of the multiple industries of our customers, the demand for our products may decrease and our revenue may decline. We market products for the packaging, solar, medical, disk drive/electronics, automotive electronics and industrial industries. Because we operate in multiple industries, we must work constantly to understand the needs, standards, and technical requirements of numerous different industries and must devote significant resources to developing different products for these industries. Our results of operations are also subject to the cyclicality and downturns in these markets. Product development is costly and time consuming. Many of our products are used by our customers to develop, manufacture, and test their own products. As a result, we must anticipate trends in our customers’ industries and develop products before our customers’ products are commercialized. If we do not accurately predict our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest substantial resources in developing products that do not achieve broad market acceptance. Our decision to continue to offer products to a given market or to penetrate new markets is based in part on our judgment of the size, growth rate, and other factors that contribute to the attractiveness of a particular market. If our product offerings in any particular market are not competitive or our analyses of a market are incorrect, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Internally developing intelligent automation products is expensive, and these investments often require a long time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we cannot predict that we will receive significant revenue from these investments, if at all. If we do not comply with environmental regulations, we may incur significant costs causing our overall business to suffer. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, and disposal of certain hazardous substances used in the manufacturing and assembly of our products. We believe that we are currently in compliance with all material environmental regulations in connection with our manufacturing operations, and that we have obtained all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. However, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could subject us to such consequences as: the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, and alteration of manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Compliance with environmental regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur substantial expenses. Our failure to control the use, disposal, removal, storage, or to adequately restrict the discharge of or assist in the cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances, could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liability under certain statutes. The imposition of liabilities of this kind would harm our financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Stock The sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants in the public market, and the concentration of our equity ownership by a small number of stockholders, could adversely affect the liquidity of Adept securities and the prevailing market price of our common stock and could permit a small number of stockholders to effectively control all decisions of stockholders of our company. We had an aggregate of 8,001,604 shares of common stock outstanding on September 8, 2008 shortly before the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In 2003, we completed a private placement of an aggregate of approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock to several accredited investors, referred to as the 2003 financing. Investors in the 2003 financing also received warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 1.1 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $6.25 per share, with certain proportionate anti-dilution protections. These warrants expire in November 2008 and could be exercised at any time, so are expected to be exercised soon after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In 2006, we also issued 731,251 shares to Crosslink entities in a private placement, referred to as the 2006 financing. In 2007, in connection with our settlement of a dispute with Crosslink, referred to as the 2007 settlement, we issued 225,000 additional shares of common stock to Crosslink entities. We have registered for resale by the investors the shares of common stock issued, and to be issuable upon exercise of the warrants in the 2003 financing, the 2006 financing and the 2007 settlement. The selling security holders from these offerings may offer up to an aggregate of approximately 4.3 million shares of our common stock under these existing registration statements, including more than 1.1 million shares of which are not currently outstanding but are likely to be in the future. The investors in our private placements beneficially own a substantial portion of our total outstanding equity securities, and these investors along with a few other stockholders unrelated to these stockholders together hold the substantial majority of our outstanding common stock, which may affect the trading market for our stock and control the results of any questions of corporate governance. Additionally, at June 30, 2008, options to purchase approximately 987,733 shares of our common stock were outstanding under our equity compensation plans, and an additional 592,230 shares of common stock were reserved for future grant and issuance under such plans. We also issue restricted shares under our employee stock purchase plan. Shares of common stock issued under these plans generally will be freely tradable in the public market, subject to the Rule 144 limitations applicable to our affiliates. The exercise of options and conversion of the warrants will significantly increase the number of common shares outstanding, diluting the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Further, the sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of these outstanding options or issuable upon exercise of our warrants, or future options in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. In connection with our Cerebellum acquisition, we may issue shares of our common stock as consideration to the sellers in that transaction. Our use of equity to raise additional financing or as consideration in connection with a future acquisition or other transaction could result in the further dilution of our stockholders’ equity interest. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional preferred stock could delay or impede a change of control of our company and may adversely affect the price an acquirer is willing to pay for our common stock. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without further action by our stockholders, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences, and the number of shares constituting a series or the designation of such series. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings, and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Adept without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of, the holders of common stock. Additionally, the conversion of preferred stock into common stock may have a dilutive effect on the holders of common stock. 24 Table of Contents Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past, and will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in the future in response to a variety of factors, including: • fluctuations in operating results and restatements of historical financial statements; • our liquidity needs and constraints; • effectiveness of cost control measures; • changes in our business focus and operational organization; • our restructuring activities and changes in management and other personnel; • the trading of our common stock on NASDAQ or another exchange; • the business environment, including the operating results and stock prices of companies in the industries we serve; • general conditions in the intelligent automation industry; • announcements concerning our business or that of our competitors or customers; • the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • litigation or claims regarding our restatement, internal controls, proprietary rights or other matters; • developments in the financial markets; and • perceived dilution from stock issuances. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies, and high technology companies in particular, fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. Those fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, terrorist or other military actions, or international currency fluctuations, as well as public perception of equity values of publicly-traded companies may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may be subject to claims, securities class action and other litigation if our stock price remains volatile or operating results suffer, which could result in substantial costs, distract management, and damage our reputation. In the past, securities class action and other litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities or where operating results suffer. Companies like ours, which are involved in rapidly changing markets, are particularly subject to this risk. We have incurred net operating losses in recent fiscal years and our stock price remains volatile. To date, there has been no litigation commenced with respect to such matters; however, we may be the target of litigation of this kind in the future. Any securities or other litigation could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources from our operations, and negatively affect our public image and reputation. Recent legislation, liability insurance costs and other increased costs of being public are likely to impact our future consolidated financial position and results of operations. Significant federal regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations promulgated as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These regulatory requirements have, and in the future, are expected to increase general and administrative costs. In addition, costs of insurance have, in some instances, increased after these regulatory changes. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles and adversely affect our financial position and operating results. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 