1A. Risk Factors. We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those indicated by forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the SEC, news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of the Company. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Our Growth Is Significantly Dependent on New Store Openings and Acquisitions Our strategy is to expand through a combination of new store openings and, to a lesser extent, acquisitions of existing store locations or businesses. Successful implementation of this strategy is contingent on numerous conditions, some of which are described below, and there can be no assurance that this expansion strategy can be successfully executed. Our continued growth depends to a significant degree on our ability to open or acquire new stores in existing and new locations and to operate these stores successfully. Our expansion strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense competition from other retailers for such sites. There can be no assurance that we will continue to grow through new store openings and/or acquisitions. We may not be able to timely open new stores or operate them successfully. Also, we may not be able to successfully hire and train new team members or integrate those team members into the programs and policies of the Company. We may not be able to adapt our distribution, management information and other operating systems to adequately supply products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the stores in a successful and profitable manner. 17 Table of Contents Our Business May be Sensitive to Economic Conditions that Impact Consumer Spending Our results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to lower-priced competitors. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability. We May Not Realize the Benefits from Acquisitions Contemplated at the Time of Transaction Risks we may face in connection with acquisitions include being unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations and support systems, or the operations of acquired businesses may be adversely affected by the introduction of our decentralized operational approach. Costs associated with integrating the operations of acquired companies may be greater than anticipated. Also, the integration of acquired operations into our operations requires the dedication of management resources that may detract attention from our day-to-day business to a degree greater than anticipated. An acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, or we may pay more than the acquired company or assets are worth. Our due diligence process may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other significant issues of an acquired company. These risks associated with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. New Stores May Negatively Impact Our Results There can be no assurance that our new store openings will be successful or result in greater sales and profitability for the Company. New stores build their sales volumes and refine their merchandise selection over time and, as a result, generally have lower gross margins and higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales than our more mature stores. There may be a negative impact on our results from a lower contribution of new stores, along with the impact of related pre-opening and relocation costs. We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Comparable Store Sales Our comparable store sales could fluctuate or be lower than our historical average for many reasons including new and acquired stores entering into the comparable store base, the opening of new stores that cannibalize store sales in existing areas, general economic conditions, increased competition, price changes in response to competitive factors, possible supply shortages, and cycling against any year of above-average sales results. Our results of operations may be materially impacted by fluctuations in our comparable store sales as the result of lower sales, lower gross profits and/or greater operating costs such as marketing. We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Quarterly Operating Results Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate for many reasons, including losses from new stores, variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors and a potential lack of customer acceptance, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, increases in store operating costs, including commodity costs, that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, possible supply shortages, general economic conditions, legal costs, insurance costs, extreme weather-related disruptions, including hurricanes and earthquakes, and potential uninsured casualty losses or other losses. In addition, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as the result of the timing of new store openings, construction and pre-opening expenses, the timing of acquisitions, store closures and relocations, and the range of operating results generated from newly opened stores. Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and may be materially impacted by the timing of new store openings. Increased Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Profitability Our competitors include but are not limited to local, regional, national and international supermarkets, natural food stores, warehouse membership clubs, small specialty stores and restaurants. These businesses compete with us for products, customers, and locations. In addition, some are expanding more aggressively in marketing a range of natural and organic foods. Some of these potential competitors may have been in business longer or may have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. As competition in certain areas intensifies, our results of operations may be negatively impacted through a loss of sales, reduction in margin from competitive price changes, and/or greater operating costs such as marketing. Our Results Are Subject to the Risks of Doing Business in Other Countries In fiscal year 2008, sales at our stores in Canada and the U.K. accounted for approximately 3% of our total sales. Though small as a percentage of total sales, the Company’s international operations are subject to certain risks of conducting business 18 Table of Contents abroad, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in regulatory requirements, and changes or uncertainties in the economic, social and political conditions in the Company’s geographic areas, among other things. Legal Proceedings Could Materially Impact Our Results From time to time, we are party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property, acquisitions, and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, the FTC has resumed its administrative action challenging the Company’s August 28, 2007 acquisition of Wild Oats Markets. Our results could be materially impacted by the decisions and expenses related to pending or future proceedings. We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People Are Harmed By the Products We Sell There is increasing governmental scrutiny of and public awareness regarding food safety. We believe that many customers choose to shop our stores because of their interest in health, nutrition and food safety. We believe that our customers hold us to a higher food safety standard than other supermarkets. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in product liability claims, the settlement or outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations. The Loss of Key Management Could Negatively Affect Our Business We are dependent upon a number of key management and other team members. If we were to lose the services of a significant number of key team members within a short period of time, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain key person insurance on any team member. Our continued success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified team members to meet our future growth needs. We face intense competition for qualified team members, many of whom are subject to offers from competing employers. We may not be able to attract and retain necessary team members to operate our business. Unions May Attempt to Organize Our Team Members Unions have from time to time attempted to organize all or part of our team member base at certain stores and non-retail facilities. Responding to such organization attempts is distracting to management and team members and may have a negative financial impact on a store, facility or the Company as a whole. Unfavorable Changes in Government Regulation Could Harm Our Business Our stores are subject to various international, federal, state and local laws, regulations and administrative practices affecting our business, and we must comply with provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, food labeling, equal employment, minimum wages and licensing for the sale of food and, in some stores, alcoholic beverages. Our new store openings could be delayed or prevented or our existing stores could be impacted by difficulties or failures in our ability to obtain or maintain required approvals or licenses. The manufacturing, processing, formulating, packaging, labeling and advertising of products are subject to regulation by various federal agencies including the FDA, FTC, CPSC, USDA and EPA. The composition and labeling of nutritional supplements are most actively regulated by the FDA under the provisions of the FFDC Act. The FFDC Act has been revised in recent years with respect to dietary supplements by the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act and by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act. The USDA’s Organic Rule facilitates interstate commerce and the marketing of organically produced food and provides assurance to our customers that such products meet consistent, uniform standards. Compliance with this rule could pose a significant burden on some of our suppliers, which may cause a disruption in some of our product offerings. We cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, or determine what effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A Widespread Health Epidemic Could Materially Impact Our Business The Company’s business could be severely impacted by a widespread regional, national or global health epidemic. Our stores are a place where customers come together, interact and learn while at the same time discovering the many joys of eating and sharing food. A widespread health epidemic may cause customers to avoid public gathering places or otherwise change their 19 Table of Contents shopping behaviors. Additionally, a widespread health epidemic could also adversely impact our business by disrupting production and delivery of products to our stores and by impacting our ability to appropriately staff our stores. Changes in the Availability of Quality Natural and Organic Products Could Impact Our Business There is no assurance that quality natural and organic products will be available to meet our future needs. If other supermarkets significantly increase their natural and organic product offerings or if new laws require the reformulation of certain products to meet tougher standards, the supply of these products may be constrained. Any significant disruption in the supply of quality natural and organic products could have a material impact on our overall sales and cost of goods sold. Perishable Foods Product Losses Could Materially Impact Our Results We believe our stores more heavily emphasize perishable products than other supermarket stores. Perishable products accounted for approximately 67% of total sales at Whole Foods Market locations in fiscal year 2008. The Company’s emphasis on perishable products may result in significant product inventory losses in the event of extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. Our Stock Price Is Volatile The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to various market factors and events. These market factors and events include variations in our sales and earnings results and any failure to meet market expectations; changes in ratings and earnings estimates by securities analysts; publicity regarding us, our competitors, the natural products industry generally; new statutes or regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing statutes or regulations affecting the natural products industry specifically; sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations also may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future Economic Factors Could Cause Impairment of Goodwill Our total assets included goodwill totaling approximately $659.6 million at September 28, 2008. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. We allocate goodwill to one reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing. As described in “Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments” of this Report, we continue discussions with the Staff of the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance regarding the Company’s goodwill impairment testing and operation as a single operating segment. Our impairment reviews require extensive use of accounting judgment and financial estimates. Application of alternative assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing goodwill for impairment at a different organization level, could produce significantly different results. We may be required to recognize impairments of goodwill based on future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, unfavorable changes in valuations of comparable companies, or unfavorable changes in estimated future discounted cash flows of the Company’s reporting unit. Impairment of goodwill could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and capitalization. Future Events Could Result in Impairment of Our Long-Lived Assets Our total assets included long-lived assets totaling approximately $1.9 billion at September 28, 2008. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”, long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Our impairment evaluations require use of financial estimates of future cash flows. Application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different results. We may be required to recognize impairments of long-lived assets based on future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in estimated future undiscounted cash flows of an asset group. Long-lived asset impairments could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and capitalization. Changes in the Number of Stock Option Exercises Could Impact Our Cash Flow Our cash flow from the exercise of team member stock options may be adversely affected in the future by fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, changes in income tax law, and changes in the number of stock options we grant. Capital Needed for Expansion and General Corporate Purposes May Not Be Available The construction and opening or acquisition of new stores and the development of new production and distribution facilities, along with the remodeling and renovation of existing stores, require significant amounts of capital. In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through proceeds from public offerings, bank debt, private placements of debt, internally generated cash flow, and proceeds from stock option exercises. These and other sources of capital may not be available to us in the future or may be more expensive to obtain. In addition, restrictive covenants that may be imposed by our lenders may limit our ability to fund our growth. On November 5, 2008, we entered into an agreement with affiliates of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. to issue and sell $425 million of newly-issued shares of preferred stock to enhance our liquidity position. The 20 Table of Contents closing and funding of the transaction is subject to certain customary closing conditions, including the receipt of customary regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance that these approvals will be received. We cannot assure that we could raise any additional capital on similar terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Have Significant Indebtedness We have significant debt and may incur additional debt in the future. A significant portion of our future cash flow from operating activities may be dedicated to the payment of interest and the repayment of principal on our indebtedness. We may not be able to refinance our debt in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes in the future. There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, we may be required to take measures such as seeking additional financing in the debt or equity markets, refinancing or restructuring all of a portion of our indebtedness, selling selected assets or reducing or delaying planned capital or operating expenditures. If we fail to comply with our debt covenants we will be in default, in which case there can be no assurance that we would be able to cure the default, receive waivers from our lenders, amend the loan agreements or refinance the debt. The Capital Markets are Currently Experiencing a Period of Dislocation and Instability. We believe that the dramatic deflation of asset valuations due in large part to the collapse of the subprime lending market has caused a general disruption in the U.S. capital markets. This collapse is evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of certain major financial institutions. Despite actions of the U.S. federal government, these events have contributed to worsening general economic conditions that are materially and adversely impacting the broader financial and credit markets and reducing the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. Reflecting the concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases ceased to provide, funding to borrowers. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright law and internal procedures and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products may be produced or sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Failure to protect our proprietary information could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Self-Insurance Plan Claims Could Materially Impact Our Results The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for the potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, general liability, property insurance, director and officers’ liability insurance, vehicle liability and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the Company are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Our results could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses related to such plans if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Changes in Accounting Standards Could Materially Impact Our Results Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as accounting for insurance and self-insurance, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, store closures, leases, income taxes and share-based payments, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change or add significant volatility to our reported earnings without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. Effective Tax Rate Changes and Results of Examinations by Taxing Authorities Could Materially Impact Our Results Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the earnings mix being lower than historical results in states or countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than historical results in states or countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other state and local taxing authorities. Our results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related to these and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities. Disruptions in Our Information Systems Could Harm Our Ability to Run Our Business. We rely extensively on information systems for point-of-sale processing in our stores, supply chain, financial reporting, human resources and various other processes and transactions. Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, including breaches of our transaction processing or other systems that could result in the compromise of confidential customer data, catastrophic events, and usage errors by our team members. If our systems are breached, damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investments to fix or replace them, suffer interruptions in our operations, face costly litigation, and our reputation with our customers may be harmed. Any material interruption in our computer operations may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Failure of Our Internal Control over Financial Reporting Could Materially Impact Our Business and Results The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. On February 15, 2008, the Company received a letter from the Staff of the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance as part of its review of the Company’s Form 10-K filed on November 29, 2007. The Company responded to that letter, which has been followed by a series of new letters and comments from the Staff and Company responses. Many of the Staff’s comments have been resolved. Following are three of the remaining unresolved comments that have evolved since the Company received the initial comment letter from the Staff in February 2008 or represent new comments from the Staff received as recently as August 2008. One comment relates to the Company’s testing for goodwill impairment under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” The Company tests for goodwill impairment on a company-wide basis, as a single reporting unit. Based on the results of its impairment testing, the Company determined that there was no impairment of goodwill during fiscal year 2008. Application of alternative assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing goodwill for impairment at a different organizational level, could produce significantly different results. Another comment relates to the Company’s determination that it has a single operating segment, and that its 11 geographic regions are not separate operating segments requiring additional segment-level financial disclosure. The Company made this determination in accordance with SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.” A third comment relates to the categorization of products in connection with disclosure of the amount or percentage of total revenue contributed by each class of similar products as required by Item 101(c)(1)(I) of Regulation S-K. The Company will continue to work with the Staff to resolve outstanding comments. 22 Table of Contents 