Risk Factors.” Also, these statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements. In this report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Adept,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Adept Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. This report contains trademarks and trade names of Adept and other companies. Adept has 140 trademarks of which 15 are registered trademarks, some of which include the Adept Technology logo including (among others) AIM®, FireBlox®, HexSight®, Adept Cobra 600™, Adept Cobra 800™, Adept Python™ Linear Modules, Adept SmartServo™, AdeptOne™, AdeptSix™, AdeptViper™ and AdeptSight™. ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are a global, leading provider of intelligent robotics systems and services that provide high performance and economic value throughout the production lifecycle or automated procedure, enabling our customers to achieve precision, speed, quality and productivity in their assembly, handling, packaging, testing and other automated processes. Our core offering is our motion controls systems and application software, which we sell standalone or 1 Table of Contents in combination with our own vision-guidance technology and/or our or third parties’ robot mechanisms. Our vision guidance technology is tightly integrated with our motion controls technology, and this is key differentiator for Adept. With more than 23 years of expertise, Adept is a pioneer in the robotics industry. Our robotics solutions are targeted at applications and processes that require precision, flexibility and high productivity. Through sales to systems integrators, original equipment manufacturer (OEM) partners and end-user companies, we provide specialized, cost-effective robotics systems and services to the consumer and computer electronics, disk drive, machine tool automation, automotive electronics, food, consumer goods and medical industries. We utilize our portfolio of high-performance motion controllers, application development software, vision-guidance technology and high-reliability robot mechanisms to deliver automation solutions that meet our customers’ increasingly complex manufacturing and automation requirements. We offer our customers comprehensive and tailored automation systems that reduce the time and cost to design, engineer and launch products into high-volume production or to perform repetitive tasks requiring a high degree of precision. The benefits of Adept automation products include increased manufacturing flexibility for future product generations, less customized engineering and reduced dependence on production engineers. Our product range currently includes application software, integrated real-time vision and multi-axis motion controls, machine vision systems and software, industrial robots, and advanced vision-based flexible partsfeeders. In recent years, we have expanded our robot product lines and developed advanced software and sensing technologies that have enabled robots to perform a wider range of functions. Adept Cobra 4-axis robots, Adept’s SCARA (Selective Compliance Assembly Robot Arm) robots, are designed for a broad range of basic applications that otherwise utilize dedicated automation or manual labor. This technology is fundamental to Adept’s business and Adept has recently made developments and launched additional SCARA products. In the consumer and computer electronics industry, our solutions help enable the manufacture and assembly of products such as cell phones, PDAs, personal music players and disk drives. In the machine and industrial automation industry, our solutions are used to automate machine tools and other industrial equipment used in the manufacturing of products or components. In the automotive electronics industry, we provide automation solutions for the manufacturer and assembly of specialized automotive parts, in particular parts relating to sensors, safety equipment and other electronic applications. In the food, consumer goods and medical industry, our systems are used to automate high volume packaging of perishable items and various consumer products, to manufacture of medical devices, to automate repetitive operations in diagnostic and pharmaceutical labs, and to assist in robot-based surgical procedures. Adept’s business is focused towards delivering intelligent flexible production automation products, components and services for assembly, packaging, material handling and lab automation applications under two operating segments: (1) Robotics and (2) Services and Support: 1) The Robotics segment provides intelligent motion controls systems, production automation software, including vision-guidance and application software, and robot mechanisms to customers. With motion controls at the core, any of the other product components we offer can be combined to offer our customers a tailored solution to address specific application requirements. 2) The Services and Support segment provides support services to customers including: spare parts for and/or remanufacture of robot mechanisms; information regarding the use of Adept’s automation equipment; ongoing support for installed systems; consulting services for applications; and training courses ranging from system operation and maintenance to advanced programming, geared towards manufacturing engineers who design and implement automation lines. We market and sell our products worldwide through more than 200 systems integrators, distributors and OEMs and our direct sales force. System integrators and OEMs add some combination of application-specific hardware and software to our products, resulting in solutions that are sold to Global 1000 companies across a range of 2 Table of Contents industries. We have more than 30,000 motion control systems and more than 6,000 vision guidance systems installed worldwide, controlling an installed based of 25,000 Adept robots as well as many other brands of robot mechanisms. We were incorporated in California in 1983 and reincorporated in Delaware in 2005. Our principal executive offices are located at 3011 Triad Drive, Livermore, California 94551. Our telephone number at that address is (925) 245-3400. Our website address is www.adept.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 can be accessed, free of charge, at our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY COMPRISING ADEPT’S CORE TECHNOLOGY Adept is a pioneer and market innovator in developing robotics motion-control systems. Our systems are designed for easy integration, deployment and use. We offer a unique motion controlled robotic system that combines tightly integrated vision, motion control and geometric object recognition. This tight integration helps to reduce development costs, risk associated with precision applications and the total cost of implementation, and is a key differentiator for Adept. We believe our vision-guided robotics systems remain the most robust and proven solutions in the market today. ADVANCED CONTROLS AND SOFTWARE Adept is uniquely capable of controlling both its own robotics systems and third party robot mechanisms to enable higher performance from these robots. With more than 35 kinematic models, or configurations of controls and robot mechanisms, we are able to control and integrate multiple vendor products and systems. Adept is delivering advanced robot controllers on non-Adept brand mechanisms from both European and Japanese manufacturers, allowing industrial integrators, machine builders and end use customers who prefer Adept’s superior control performance, integrated vision guidance and networkability to apply these Adept features across the entire flexible automation cell, not just Adept brand label robot mechanisms. Part of Adept’s strategy is to extend and apply our non-proprietary software program to both new robotic cells and service projects, as end users look for Adept to support third party mechanisms and older or orphaned robot supplier products. Distributed Control Architecture In the late 1990s, Adept anticipated the need for a robust distributed control architecture for networking robotic systems in complex manufacturing environments, and as a result implemented Adept SmartServo™, a digital servo network for our robot and motion control products. Adept SmartServo is based on the IEEE-1394 standard, also known as FireWire®. Initial products were introduced in 1999, with the announcement of Adept SmartModule™. The product line has since grown to include a family of controllers, amplifiers, motors and Adept SmartServo-enabled mechanisms that replace most of the traditional control and power electronics architecture with a digital servo network. During fiscal 2005, the traditional panel-mounted power amplifiers and their attendant rack chassis and power supply were replaced by Adept MotionBlox™ technology. These self-contained multiple and single channel power amplifiers, with an on-board microprocessor, are mounted directly on (or in) the robot mechanism. Adept SmartServo architecture is a distributed processing network architecture where the controller’s CPU runs the trajectory planner while the servo loop is closed in the Adept MotionBlox. This processing scheme delivers high performance and flexibility, but also demands a highly deterministic time-based network. The Adept SmartServo digital servo network becomes the means to add controller features. In a traditional architecture, the controller included expansion slots and their attendant power supply capacity, connectors, rack 3 Table of Contents space and increased footprint. With Adept SmartServo technology, additional features such as remote and panel digital I/O, general purpose motion control and additional Adept SmartServo mechanisms can be added by simply connecting the module directly to the network. Adept SmartController™ The Adept SmartController™ is designed to work with the Adept SmartServo distributed servo control network. Adept SmartControllers offer reduced costs, the smallest form factor in the industry, and simplified installation, wiring, and support costs while maintaining compliance with domestic and international safety specifications. The Adept SmartController CX provides high performance, distributed motion and vision controllers. The Adept SmartController’s network control architecture leverages Adept’s MotionBlox technology, which increases system scalability and modularity while dramatically reducing controller size and cabling up to 70% from Adept’s VERSAmodule Eurocard (or VME, an industry standard bus architecture), controller family. The Adept SmartController’s distributed processing architecture improves performance by freeing up 30% more of the processor’s resources. The Adept SmartController CX includes an expansion slot for AdeptVision sAVI together with additional communication ports, conveyor belt tracking support and more CPU capacity. The Adept SmartController CX features several high-speed communication interfaces, including 10/100 Ethernet and SmartServo. All Adept SmartControllers offer scalability and support for Adept’s SmartServo compatible digital I/O and general motion expansion modules. Adept DeskTop™ Adept DeskTop is a Microsoft Windows application that provides an easy-to-use software development environment for Adept controllers and further enhances the ability to interface a PC to an Adept controller. The development environment is built on top of a library of ActiveX controls that can be accessed directly by C, C++, or Visual Basic PC applications to monitor and control an Adept robot, motion control, or vision system in real time. Adept V+™ Adept is a leader in the industry of software development for robotics systems, having developed the first modern programming language for robots. Our V+ real-time programming language allows software developers to create automation software systems and is the key enabling technology for our intelligent automation approach. This comprehensive programming environment provides a high-level language coupled with a multitasking operating system and built-in capability for integrating robots, machine vision, sensors, workcell control and general communications. These capabilities enable the development of sophisticated application software that can adaptively control mechanical systems based upon real-time sensory input while simultaneously maintaining communication with other factory equipment. V+ offers the user approximately 300 instructions for programming an intelligent automation workcell. It includes a trajectory generator and continuous path planner, which compute the path of the robot’s tool in real-time based upon predefined data or sensory input. V+ also includes a number of network communication facilities and supports a variety of standard communication protocols. In addition, this software includes an operating system specifically designed for factory automation and robot control. This operating system allows V+ to execute dozens of tasks concurrently and permits control to pass between tasks in a predictable manner, often several times per millisecond. The primary development environment for V+ is Windows 98, NT, 2000 and XP based and allows the customer to utilize industry standard personal computers. AdeptVision Integrated vision is a core technology for Adept and a key differentiator for our solutions. Our AdeptVision family offers highly integrated machine vision products that are used for robot guidance and inspection applications. Utilizing proprietary geometric object recognition, the integration of our controller and vision 4 Table of Contents systems software enables high speed vision applications such as vision servomechanisms. For inspection applications such as gauging and dimensioning, the AdeptVision product is sold as an integrated inspection vision system comprised of a SmartController CX with an embedded vision board and software. In late fiscal 2005 we introduced Adept iSight™, the first member of a new product family integrating PC-based vision with Adept’s robotic and motion control products. Adept iSight is designed to work seamlessly with the Adept Cobra i-series SCARA (Selective Compliance Assembly Robot Arm) robots, making the development and use of vision location, guidance and inspection applications simpler, faster, and more powerful. The vision technology is based on the HexSight Locator, a fast and reliable object location tool featuring multi-model and built-in calibration support. Adept iSight is a complete package that includes the application toolset, the vision software, vision and vision-to-robot calibration wizards, the camera and lens and the accessories to provide a complete out-of-the-box solution. Adept iSight provides both a cost effective entry product and a high performance application platform. ADEPT ROBOT MECHANISMS We provide a large number of robot mechanisms to address different markets and application needs. All of these robot mechanisms are controlled by the software and hardware control architecture described above in “Products and Technology Comprising Adept’s Core Technology” and “Advanced Controls and Software.” This broad product line allows system integrators and end users to develop automation solutions for many industries and applications. Adept’s most widely deployed robots are the sCobra family, consisting of Adept Cobra s600™ and Adept Cobra s800™ (s600 and s800); and the iCobra family, consisting of Adept Cobra i600™ and Adept Cobra i800™ (i600 and i800). These 4-axis robots are SCARA robot mechanisms, designed for assembly and material handling tasks. SCARA robots utilize a combination of rotary and linear joints for high speed, high precision material handling, assembly and packaging. The sCobra and iCobra series robots are considered light-duty SCARA mechanisms that can be table mounted and offer an efficient range of motions in limited space. The speed and precision of the Adept sCobra and iCobra robots provide a high level of performance within the SCARA marketplace. The sCobra robots feature Adept’s MotionBlox technology that packages the local servo control capabilities, digital I/O capabilities, integrated DC Power with Safety, and integrated high power amplifiers together on the back of the sCobra mechanism. The result of combining a local controller and I/O integration with the robot SCARA mechanism is a degree of flexibility that is not currently available from other automation suppliers. The sCobra robots can be connected to Adept’s SmartController for integrated motion and vision or multi-mechanism configurations. To address the market need for a lower cost SCARA mechanism with limited capability for applications such as simple pick and place, Adept also developed a controllerless version of the sCobra product, called the iCobra. The iCobra is a high performance robot mechanism, combining scalable local mechanism I/O with a simple set of motion programming capabilities. The iCobra uses a MotionBlox embedded controller to manage all controls tasks. The iCobra MotionBlox embedded controller runs µV+ motion control software, which operates off a sub-set of the V+ language. The iCobra interfaces to a standard PC running the Adept Desktop development software. The physical interface is a simple RS-232 serial port. In response to the market need for a 6-axis robot that combines speed, flexibility and precision, in April 2005, we expanded our product portfolio to include the AdeptViper robot family, a line of 6-axis articulated robots designed specifically for precision assembly applications. We estimate that the market for 6-axis robotics in material handling and assembly processes is larger than the SCARA 4-axis market, and thus gives us expanded sales opportunities in the industries and global markets we serve. The AdeptViper combines an advanced 6-axis arm design with Adept’s high performance SmartControl software platform allowing 6-axis robotics to be used in small part assembly and material handling manufacturing. The AdeptViper s650 and AdeptViper s850 are designed for either table-mounting or ceiling mounting and having a 5 kilogram maximum payload capacity. The AdeptViper s1300 six-axis robot is an extended-reach and higher-payload version of the s650 and s850 robots models. 5 Table of Contents In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we released new products to address the increasing demand for small parts assembly and material handling applications across multiple industries, including consumer and computer electronics, disk drive, machine tool automation, automotive electronics, food, consumer goods, medical devices and pharmaceuticals. New products included the Adept Cobra™ s350 and Clean Room/ESD s350 with MotionBox™ 40 servo controller. These new robots have been designed to ensure reduced application development time, improved speed and accuracy, and the fastest possible configuration and delivery times, resulting in significantly greater return on investment throughout the production lifecycle. In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we introduced a family of high performance linear modules called Adept Python Linear Modules, primarily for the electronics and automotive electronics markets. These single axis devices can be coupled together by the user to form application specific custom robot mechanisms ranging from 2 to 4 axes. Each Adept Python Module is powered by an Adept Motionblox 10, an integrated single axis motion controller and power amplifier. Adept Python Linear Modules feature fast delivery lead times, lower delivered costs, and reduced installation time. This combination of modularity and system level performance reduces the amount of software programming and cabling required in a workcell or robotic system that performs a specific automation function. Python Modules are also offered in single-axis standalone versions which can operate without any additional controllers, saving cost and space for simple applications. All of the above mechanisms are configured to operate with Adept’s SmartServo technology. Adept’s SmartServo architecture combines motion control signals and input/output signals for transmission over a high-speed IEEE-1394 FireWire cable. Adept SmartServo technology allows us to coordinate multiple Adept robots with one SmartController. This capability is a key value proposition for our customers. We also offer two floor standing SCARA robot mechanisms called the AdeptOne-XL and the AdeptThree-XL. The Adept-XL robots use direct-drive technology. Direct-drive technology eliminates gears and linkages from the drive train of the mechanism, thereby significantly increasing robot speed and precision and improving the robot’s product life, reliability and accuracy. SERVICE AND SUPPORT The goal of the Adept Service and Support group is to assure the productivity of every Adept product installed at a customer location. We offer on-going training, service and applications support to our customers, and maintain a program of spare parts, field upgrades, and factory repair and remanufacturing capabilities. This organization includes a staff located at our headquarters and field personnel who are based in the United States, Europe and Asia to support customers worldwide. We provide “evergreen” product paths that support our customers with service and upgrades for all products, including those no longer in production, to ensure that an investment in flexible automation from Adept will continue to be productive for the duration of a project or production requirement. We maintain a staff of product training personnel who develop and deliver training courses on subjects ranging from basic system maintenance to advanced programming. In addition, we have field personnel who are qualified to assist in delivering training courses. These courses are geared both for manufacturing engineers who design and implement automation lines and for personnel who operate and maintain equipment once it is in production, and are taught in Adept offices and customer sites throughout the world. Our field service organization maintains and repairs our products on location at the end user’s facilities. Personnel based at our service centers provide advice to customers on spare parts, product upgrades and preventative maintenance. We also operate toll-free telephone support lines to provide advice on issues such as product usage, software programming structure, layout problems and system installation. In addition, our Livermore manufacturing facility provides factory repair and remanufacture services which ensure that Adept products will continue to be productive over the extended timeframes common for automated 6 Table of Contents production lines. In addition, we are able to generate additional revenue through the remanufacture and enhancement if our competitors’ robots. A key component of our growth strategy is to sell our motion control systems into most of the installed base of compatible robot mechanisms when a controller update or upgrade is required. We use a combination of competitive selling and cooperative agreements to gain access to our competitors’ customer bases. Financial information regarding our business segments is included in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Customers We sell our products to system integrators, distributors, Global 1000 companies and OEMs. Adept’s robotics solutions are targeted at companies that require greater precision, flexibility and productivity in their assembly, handling, packaging and testing processes. Through direct sales to companies, OEMs and via our systems integrators, Adept provides a suite of cost-effective robotics systems and services to the consumer and computer electronics, disk drive, machine tool automation, automotive electronics, food, consumer goods, medical devices and pharmaceuticals industries. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for any of the past three fiscal years. Financial information regarding revenue derived from domestic and international customers based upon geographic area is included in Note 13 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Distribution We market our products through system integrators, distributors, our direct sales force and OEMs. System Integrators. We ship a substantial portion of our products through system integrators, and we view our relationships with these organizations as important to our success. We have established relationships with over 200 system integrators worldwide that provide expertise and process knowledge for a wide range of specific applications. In the United States and Europe, these relationships are generally nonexclusive and not limited to specific geographical territories. In certain other international markets, Adept’s integrator relationships may include limited exclusive arrangements for a limited geographical territory in which the integrator markets and supports Adept functions directly. Generally a system integrator can purchase both standard and non-standard Adept solutions and components as opposed to OEM arrangements where generally one standard component or solution is purchased in higher volumes. Distributors. We utilize a network of distributors to provide cost effective sales coverage in smaller markets where it may not make sense for us to allocate direct sales resources. We use a combination of exclusive (Adept product only) and non-exclusive distributors who sell our robot and vision guidance products in their standard forms. Adept provides service and support for customers who have purchased Adept products through one of our distributors. As of June 30, 2006, we had 18 distributors in several countries around the world. Direct Sales Force. We employ a sales force which is geographically organized and sells to both end users and our indirect channel partners. With respect to end users, the sales force directs its efforts to communicate the capabilities of our products and support services and obtain up-to-date information regarding market requirements. Our sales force possesses expertise in automation solutions and advises end users on alternative production line designs, special application techniques, equipment sources and system integrator selection. Our sales force also works closely with system integrators and OEMs to integrate our product line into their systems, provides sales leads to certain system integrators and obtains intelligent automation system quotes from system integrators for end users. As of June 30, 2006, our North American direct sales force included 14 employees. We have four North American sales and customer support offices located in Livermore, California; Southbury, 7 Table of Contents Connecticut; Cincinnati, Ohio, and Charlotte, North Carolina. As of June 30, 2006, our international sales organization included 11 direct sales employees and nine agents covering Europe, Asia and South America. Some of our larger manufacturing end user customers, to whom we sell directly, have in-house engineering departments that are comparable to a captive systems integrator. These end user customers establish a corporate integrator relationship with us offering benefits similar to those provided to our integrator distribution channel; however, we may in some cases form strategic alliances for certain potentially high volume market opportunities with greater benefits to the customer than exist in system integrator arrangements, although the benefits may come with contractual restrictions. OEMs. Our OEM customers typically purchase one standard product configuration, which the OEM integrates with additional hardware and software and sells under the OEM’s label to other resellers and end users. Unlike our system integrator channel, OEMs are responsible for all marketing, sales and customer support and for maintaining the associated spare parts to service the end users of the integrated product. Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on the development of an integrated product line, which furthers our factory automation approach and which reduces cost, enhances performance, and improves ease of use for our customers. We carry out primary research and development activities in two locations; Livermore, California and Quebec, Canada. Research and development activities at Livermore, California are focused on design of our motion and vision control boards and the mechanisms that utilize them. Our vision software is designed and developed in our Quebec, Canada facility. We have devoted, and intend to devote in the future, a significant portion of our resources to research and development programs. As of June 30, 2006, we had 48 persons engaged in research, development and engineering. Our research, development and engineering expenses were approximately $7.1 million for 2006, $6.9 million for 2005, and $7.1 million for 2004 and represented 12.4% of revenues for 2006, 13.6% of revenues for 2005, and 14.4% of revenues for 2004. Manufacturing Adept’s manufacturing operations, which are located in Livermore, California and Dortmund, Germany, are utilized for product assembly, integration and test. We strategically outsource sub-components of our systems, including electronics assemblies and mechanical mechanisms. Our Viper and Python robot mechanisms are sourced externally, and we have recently completed the turnkey outsourcing for our SmartController family of products (CX, sMI6, sDIO, and MotionBlox) and for our complete line of Cobra robot mechanisms. This has eliminated any assembly in our facilities for these segments of our product line. This change allows for redeploying this capacity into a more flexible manufacturing capacity. This flexibility is important as we grow our Cobra and Viper businesses and as we look to grow the refurbished and upgraded installed base mechanisms for customers. Our manufacturing engineering organization develops test processes and detailed instructions for all manufacturing and test operations. These instructions are established in writing, implemented through training of the manufacturing workforce, and monitored to assure compliance. In addition, our manufacturing organization works closely with our suppliers to develop instructions, test methods and to remedy technical or quality problems if they arise. For quality assurance practices, Adept is in transition from its prior ISO 9002 certification to the new ISO 9001-2000 standard. The ISO 9002 standard focused on quality system requirements for a company’s production, delivery and servicing of products and services around the world. The new ISO 9001-2000 standard focuses on the design and 8 Table of Contents release process, all process efficiencies and emphasizes customer satisfaction in addition to the areas focused by the ISO 9002 standard. Adept continually reviews internal and external quality data and focuses the organization on continuous improvement and effective corrective action methodologies. Certain components and sub-assemblies incorporated into our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. We routinely monitor single source supply parts, and we endeavor to ensure that adequate inventory is available to maintain manufacturing schedules should the supply of any part be interrupted. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on sole or limited source suppliers, we have not qualified a second source for some of these products and the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage customer relationships. Backlog Our product backlog related to continuing operations at June 30, 2006 was approximately $3.0 million, as compared to approximately $6.4 million at June 30, 2005. This decrease in our backlog reflects our strategic shift in fiscal 2006 to selling standard versions of our products, rather than custom designs, as well as focusing on the market for remanufactured products. This shift in our sales strategy has resulted in a change in our manufacturing model as well, and accordingly we have completed the outsourcing of our product manufacturing and have adopted a “fast order and delivery” process that has greatly reduced the time between the receipt and the fulfillment of orders for our customers. This has resulted in a reduction in backlog, as we now sell our products through fulfilled orders versus the longer term cycles of our previous manufacturing delivery. Customers who have placed orders with delivery dates beyond twelve months from the end of the fiscal quarter are not included in backlog, and thus we expect substantially all of the backlog at June 30, 2006 to ship during fiscal 2007. Because orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules and in certain instances may be subject to cancellation without significant penalty to the customer, our backlog at any date may not be indicative of demand for our products or actual revenues for any period in the future. Employees At June 30, 2006, we had 175 employees worldwide. Of the total, 48 were engaged in research and development, 36 in sales and marketing, 45 in service and support, 22 in operations, and 24 in finance and administration. Competition The market for intelligent automation products is highly competitive. We compete with a number of robot companies, motion control companies, and machine vision companies. Many of our competitors in the robot market are integrated manufacturers of products that produce robotics equipment internally for their own use and may also compete with our products for sales to other customers. The basis for competition typically centers on price and performance. We believe that we favorably compete on the basis of higher performance, additional capabilities, greater combination of speed, precision, and flexibility, and better support of our product line. Our principal competitors in the assembly robot and linear modules markets include subsidiaries of Japanese companies, including Epson Corporation, Yamaha Corporation, Denso Corporation and IAI America, Inc. We also compete with a small group of European companies, principally Stäubli Corporation which recently acquired Bosch Rexroth’s line of robots. In the material handling robot market, we compete with the above companies, as well as manufacturers of 6-axis robots including Motoman, Inc., Kawasaki Robotics, Inc., and Staubli Corporation. In the 6-Axis market, Adept offers strong performance and more sophisticated controls and software. In the machine vision market, our primary competition is from Cognex Corporation. Cognex has a broader, more extensive product line than Adept, but is focused on machine vision only. 9 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Because Adept’s success and competitiveness depends to an extent on the technical expertise, creativity, and knowledge of our personnel, we utilize patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection to safeguard our competitive position. At June 30, 2006, we had ten patents issued and current on various innovations in the field of robotics, motion control, and machine vision technology, and had two patent applications pending. In addition, we make use of non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees, and consultants. Adept attempts to protect its intellectual property by restricting access to its proprietary information through a combination of technical and internal security measures. There can be no assurance, however, that any of the above measures will be adequate to protect the proprietary technology of Adept. Further, effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may be unavailable in certain foreign countries. Seasonality Historically, orders and revenue have been lowest in our first fiscal quarter and highest in our fourth fiscal quarter, with a significant decline between the fourth quarter of one fiscal year and the first fiscal quarter of the next year. This historical seasonality is due, in part, to the concentration of our revenue from sales into the European market. While revenues in each quarter will vary based on the particular timing and type of sales made to customers, we expect that this seasonality may be less dramatic in the foreseeable future as our increased sales into Asia are expected to reflect a partially offsetting seasonal pattern. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors that are difficult to forecast, are often out of our control and can be extremely volatile. Our past revenues and other operating results may not be accurate indicators of our future performance, and you should not rely on such results to predict our future performance. Our operating results have been subject to significant fluctuations in the past, and could be subject to fluctuations in the future. The factors that may contribute to these fluctuations include: • fluctuations in aggregate capital spending, cyclicality and other economic conditions domestically and internationally in one or more industries in which we sell our products; • changes or reductions in demand in the electronics/communications, automotive, food, pharmaceutical, and other markets we serve; • decline or slower than expected growth in those industries requiring precision assembly automation; and • slower than expected adoption of distributed controls architecture or the adoption of alternative automated technologies. • a change in market acceptance of our products or a shift in demand for our products; • changes in our strategy, such as our increased focus on controllers and software products; and organizational changes made reflecting our strategy; • new product introductions by us or by our competitors; • changes in product mix and pricing by us, our suppliers or our competitors; • pricing and related availability of components and raw materials for our products; • our failure to manufacture a sufficient volume of products in a timely and cost-effective manner; • our failure to anticipate the changing product requirements of our customers; • changes in the mix of sales by distribution channel; • our liquidity ability to effectively manage our working capital; 10 Table of Contents • impact of new accounting pronouncements, such as those relating to share based compensation expense required under SFAS 123R; • exchange rate fluctuations; • shifts in geographic concentration of our sales or operations between domestic and international; • seasonal fluctuations in demand and our associated revenue, for which demand is generally lower in the first half of the fiscal year; • our ability to expand our product offerings through acquired technologies and products; • costs incurred in connection with compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act internal controls and other SEC and NASDAQ requirements; and • extraordinary events such as litigation or acquisitions. Revenues also impact our gross margins. Our gross margins can vary greatly for a number of reasons, and our operating results tend to fluctuate as a result of the variance in gross margins. The mix of products we sell can vary from period to period, particularly with respect to the volume of lower margin hardware products (such as mechanical subsystems purchased from third party vendors), and higher margin controller products. While we intend to more aggressively pursue opportunities to sell our controllers and other software products, we cannot give any assurances regarding the growth of our sales of these higher margin products in the future. Other factors that impact gross margins include: • currency exchange rate fluctuations for our international sales; • the average selling prices of products we sell including changes in the average discounts offered; • the costs to manufacture, service and support our products and enhancements; • the costs to customize our systems; • the volume of products produced and associated production volume variances, if any, generated; • our efforts to enter new markets, in particular the growth of our sales in Asia; and • certain inventory-related costs including obsolescence of products and component demand changes resulting in excess inventory. We generally recognize product revenues upon shipment or, for certain international sales, upon receipt by the customers. As a result, our net revenues and results of operations for a fiscal period will be affected by the timing of orders received and orders shipped during the period. A significant percentage of our product shipments occur in the last month of each fiscal quarter. Historically, this has been due, in part, to our inability to forecast the level of demand for our products or the product mix for a particular fiscal quarter. To address this problem we periodically stock inventory levels of completed robots, machine controllers and certain strategic components. In fiscal 2006, we increased our inventories to improve timing of delivery to our customers. A delay in shipments near the end of a fiscal period, for example, due to product development delays or delays in obtaining materials may cause sales to fall below expectations and harm our operating results for the period. Similarly, our indirect costs, production capacity and operating expenses are largely fixed in the short run. Continued investments in research and development, capital equipment and ongoing customer service and support capabilities, in addition to the expense of being a public reporting company, result in significant fixed costs that we cannot reduce rapidly or at all. As a result, if our sales for a particular fiscal period are below expected levels, our cost of revenue increases and our operating results for the period could be materially adversely affected. Further, if shipments of our products fail to meet forecasted levels, the increased inventory levels and increased operating expenses in anticipation of sales that do not materialize could adversely affect our business and substantially impact our liquidity. In the event that in some fiscal quarter our net revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may fall. We may not be able to increase or sustain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. 11 Table of Contents Our international operations and sales and foreign suppliers subject us to foreign currency exchange risks, divergent regulatory requirements and other financial and operating risks outside of our control that may harm our operating results. We have significant and expanding operations outside the United States and a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from non-U.S. sales. International sales were $30.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2006, $33.9 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 and $22.7 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. This represented 53.4%, 67.2% and 46.1% of revenue for the respective periods. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We expect that revenue for sales into Asia, in particular, will grow as a percentage of total revenue, as we expand our presence in the Asia-Pacific region. We also purchase some critical components and mechanical subsystems from, and increasingly rely upon, foreign suppliers. As a result, our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international sales and purchases, which include the following: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • political, military and economic changes and disruptions, including terrorist activity; • transportation costs and delays; • foreign currency fluctuations; • export/import controls; • tariff regulations and other trade barriers; • higher freight rates; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales operations; • stringent local jurisdictional requirements regarding employees and union activity; • greater difficulty in and longer time required for accounts receivable collection in foreign jurisdictions; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Ongoing global economic and political developments and the resulting changes in currency exchange rates, most notably between the U.S. dollar, the euro, and the Japanese yen, have had, and may in the future have, a significant effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The decline in value of the U.S. dollar to the euro in fiscal 2004 through 2006 resulted in a currency exchange gain for us, and future fluctuations may result in significant gains or losses. If there is an increase in the rate at which a foreign currency exchanges into U.S. dollars, the dollar has appreciated relative to the foreign currency, and it will take more of the foreign currency to equal the same amount of U.S. dollars than before the rate increase. Pricing our products and services in U.S. dollars in this circumstance results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. Foreign exchange fluctuations may render our products less competitive relative to locally manufactured product offerings, or could result in foreign exchange losses. To maintain a competitive price for our products in Europe and elsewhere, we may have to provide discounts or otherwise effectively reduce our prices, resulting in a lower margin on products sold in Europe and other relevant locations. Additionally, we make yen-denominated purchases of certain components and mechanical subsystems from certain of our sole or single source Japanese suppliers and thus remain subject to the transaction exposures that arise from foreign exchange movements between the dates foreign currency export sales or purchase transactions are recorded and the dates cash is received or payments are made in foreign currencies. Continued change in the values of the euro, yen or changes in the values of other foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are in the process of expanding our presence in Asia in response to the increase in our sales into that region, and anticipate further increasing business as our customers expand manufacturing in China and elsewhere in 12 Table of Contents Asia. We maintain an office in Singapore and sell standard components for products to OEMs who deliver products to Asian markets such as Japan, Malaysia, Korea, and China. Past turmoil in Asian financial markets and weakness in underlying economic conditions in certain Asian countries may continue to impact our sales to OEM customers who deliver to, are located in, or whose projects are based in those Asian countries. In addition, customers in those countries may face reduced access to working capital to fund component purchases, such as our products, due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending due to contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer’s or their bank’s financial condition or the inability to access local equity financing. In the past, as a result of this lack of working capital and higher interest rates, we have experienced periodic declines in sales to OEMs serving the Asian market. With over half of our sales coming from international sales, collection times on those sales are longer because of longer delivery times, time required to clear customs, and generally slower payment patterns in some international markets. As our international sales increase, delays in receiving payment in connection with such sales may also more greatly impact our revenue and liquidity. In addition to our international sales, maintaining operations in different countries requires us to expend significant resources to keep our operations coordinated and subjects us to differing laws and regulatory regimes that may affect our offerings and revenue. We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow in the past, and our doing so in the future could impair our operations and revenue-generating activities and adversely affect our results of operations. Prior to our common stock financing in June 2006, we had limited cash resources, and because of certain regulatory restrictions impeding our ability to move certain cash reserves from our foreign operations to our U.S. operations, we may have limited access to a portion of our existing cash balances. We currently have a one-year credit facility for up to $5.0 million, under which no amounts are outstanding. We currently depend on funds generated from operating activities, plus the proceeds of our June 2006 common stock financing and the funds available through our credit facility to meet our operating requirements and execute on our growth plan. If our projected revenue falls below current estimates or if operating expenses exceed current, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop or enhance new products to an extent desirable to execute our strategic growth plan, pursue acquisitions that would complement our existing product offerings or enhance our technical capabilities to fully execute our business plan or otherwise adequately respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Any of these actions would adversely impact our business and results of operations. The long sales cycle, customer evaluation process, and implementation period of our products may increase the costs of obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our earnings. Our products are technologically complex. Prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate our products and to install and integrate them into larger systems. Orders expected in one quarter may shift to another quarter or be cancelled with little advance notice as a result of the customers’ budgetary constraints, internal acceptance reviews, and other factors affecting the timing of customers’ purchase decisions. In addition, customers often require a significant number of product presentations and demonstrations, in some instances evaluating equipment on site, before reaching a sufficient level of confidence in the product’s performance and compatibility with the customer’s requirements to place an order. As a result, our sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy evaluation and approvals that typically accompany capital expenditure approval processes. The sales cycles of our products often last for many months or even years. In addition, the time required for our customers to incorporate our products into their systems can vary significantly with the needs of our customers and generally exceeds several months, which further complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our operating results. Longer sales cycles require us to invest 13 Table of Contents significant resources in attempting to make sales, which may not be realized in the near term and therefore may delay or prevent the generation of revenue. In addition, should our financial condition deteriorate, prospective customers may be reluctant to purchase our products, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. Sales of our products depend on the capital spending patterns of our customers, which tend to be cyclical; we have experienced reduced demand in some of the industries in which we operate, which has and may continue to adversely affect our revenue and we may not be able to quickly ramp up if demand significantly increases. Intelligent automation systems using our products can range in price from $25,000 to $500,000. Accordingly, our success is directly dependent upon the capital expenditure budgets of our customers. Our future operations may be subject to substantial fluctuations as a consequence of domestic and foreign economic conditions, industry patterns and other factors affecting capital spending. Although the majority of our international customers are not in the Asia-Pacific region, a significant portion of our revenues comes from sales in this region, and we believe that any instability in the Asia-Pacific economies could also have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations as a result of a reduction in sales by our customers to those markets. Domestic or international recessions or a downturn in one or more of our major markets, such as the electronic/communications and food and pharmaceuticals industries, and resulting cutbacks in capital spending would have a direct, negative impact on our business. Downturns in the industries we serve often occur in connection with, or anticipation of, maturing product cycles for both companies and their customers and declines in general economic conditions. Industry downturns have been characterized by reduced demand for devices and equipment, production over-capacity and accelerated decline in average selling prices. During a period of declining demand, we must be able to quickly and effectively reduce expenses while at the same time, continue to motivate and retain key employees. In fiscal 2006, U.S. manufacturing markets improved but generally remained soft, and we do not foresee strong U.S. manufacturing demand in fiscal 2007. We implemented a worldwide restructuring program in fiscal 2002 to realign our businesses to the changes in our industry and our customers’ decrease in capital spending. We made additional cost reductions in fiscal 2003 through 2005 to further realign our business. Despite this restructuring activity, our ability to reduce expenses in response to any downturn in any of these industries is limited by our need for continued investment in engineering and research and development and extensive ongoing customer service and support requirements, in addition to administrative costs which must be incurred by us as a public company. The long lead-time for production and delivery of some of our products creates a risk that we may incur expenditures or purchase inventories for products that we cannot sell. We believe our future performance will continue to be affected by the cyclical nature of these industries, and thus, any future downturn in these industries could therefore harm our revenue and gross margin if demand drops or average selling prices decline. Industry upturns have been characterized by abrupt increases in demand for devices and equipment and production under-capacity. During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to quickly increase manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand and hire and assimilate a sufficient number of qualified personnel. Our inability to ramp-up in times of increased demand could harm our reputation and cause some of our existing or potential customers to place orders with our competitors. We have engaged in substantial restructuring activities in the past, and may need to implement further restructurings in the future, and our restructuring efforts may negatively impact our business. The intelligent automation industry is subject to rapid change. We have responded to increased changes in the industry in which we compete by restructuring our operations and reducing the size of our workforce while attempting to maintain our market presence in the face of increased competition. Despite our efforts to structure our Company and our businesses to meet competitive pressures and customer needs, we cannot assure that we will be successful in continuing to implement these restructuring activities or that the reductions in workforce and other cost-cutting measures will not harm our business operations and prospects. Further, in identifying a number of errors previously made as we completed our fiscal 2006 consolidation, we determined that our 14 Table of Contents accounting systems and finance organization were not capable of supporting our growth and we must invest in remediating these issues. Our inability to structure our operations based on evolving market conditions could negatively impact our business. We also cannot be certain that we will not be required to implement further restructuring activities, make additions or other changes to our management or reductions in workforce based on other cost reduction measures or changes in the markets and industry in which we compete. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and adverse impacts on the business, and we cannot be sure that any future restructuring efforts will be successful. We have significant dependence on outsourced manufacturing capabilities and single source suppliers. If we experience disruptions in the supply of one or more key components, we may be unable to meet product demand and we may lose customers and suffer decreased revenue. We outsource a predominant portion of our manufacturing function. We obtain many key components and materials and most of our mechanical subsystems from sole or single source suppliers with whom we have no guaranteed supply arrangements. In addition, some of our sole or single sourced components and mechanical subsystems incorporated into our products have long procurement lead times. Our increased reliance on outsourced manufacturing and other capabilities, and particularly our reliance on sole or single source suppliers, involves certain significant risks including: • loss of control over the manufacturing process; • potential absence of adequate supplier capacity; • potential for significant price increases in the components and mechanical subsystems; • potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, materials or mechanical subsystems; and • reduced control over manufacturing yields, costs, timely delivery, reliability and quality of components, materials and mechanical subsystems. We do not have contracts with certain of our sole or single source suppliers. If any one of our suppliers were unable or unwilling to manufacture the components, materials or mechanical subsystems we need in the volumes we require, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements. The process of qualifying suppliers may be lengthy, and additional sources may not be available to us on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all. If sufficient quantities of these items were not available from our existing suppliers and a relationship with an alternative vendor could not be developed in a timely manner, shipments of our products could be interrupted and reengineering of these products could be required. We have limited control over the quality of certain manufactured products and their acceptance by our customers. In the past, we have experienced quality control or specification problems with certain key components provided by sole source suppliers, and have had to design around the particular flawed item. Any quality issues could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost sales, and increased warranty costs. In addition, some of the components that we use in our products are in short supply. We have also experienced delays in filling customer orders due to the failure of certain suppliers to meet our volume and schedule requirements. Some of our suppliers have also ceased manufacturing components that we require for our products, and we have been required to purchase sufficient supplies for the estimated life of such product line. Problems of this nature with our suppliers may occur in the future. Disruption, significant price increases, or termination of our supply sources could require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay our product shipments and damage relationships with current and prospective customers, require us to absorb a significant price increase or risk pricing ourselves out of the market, or prevent us from taking other business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we incorrectly forecast product mix for a particular period and we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of any components or mechanical subsystems on a timely and cost effective basis due to long procurement lead times, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be substantially impaired. Moreover, if demand for a product for which we have purchased a substantial amount of components fails to meet our expectations, or 15 Table of Contents due to component price increases causes us to be priced out of the market, we would be required to write off the excess inventory. A prolonged inability to obtain adequate timely deliveries of key components or obtain components at prices within our business model could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulations requiring recognition of compensation expense related to equity compensation could significantly adversely affect our results of operations and harm our trading price. The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Statement 123R, Share-Based Payment, which was a revision of Statement 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation became effective for Adept in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Statement 123R requires share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized as expense in the financial statements based on their fair values and does not allow proforma disclosure as an alternative to financial statement recognition. Adept evaluated option valuation methodologies and assumptions in light of FAS 123R pronouncement guidelines related to employee stock options and decided to continue using the Black-Scholes method, with adjustments to the methodology as necessary for reporting under Statement 123R guidelines. As a result, our operating results for fiscal year 2006 contain, and our operating results for future periods will contain, a charge for share-based compensation related to stock options and employee stock purchases. This charge is in addition to other share-based compensation expense we have recognized in prior periods. Statement 123R had a significant impact on our operating results for fiscal 2006, with 123R charges of $1.2 million significantly reducing operating income to $0.6 million, and Adept expects the adoption will have a significant adverse impact on our operating results in the future. We cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating results will have on the trading price of our common stock in future periods. Our business will decline if we cannot keep up with the rapid pace of technological change and new product development that characterize the intelligent automation industry. The intelligent automation industry is characterized by rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Our ability to remain competitive depends greatly upon the technological quality of our products and processes compared to those of our competitors and our ability both to continue to develop new and enhanced products and to introduce those products at competitive prices and on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be successful in selecting, developing, and manufacturing new products or in enhancing our existing products on a timely basis or at all. Our new or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance. Our failure to successfully select, develop, and manufacture new products, or to timely enhance existing technologies and meet customers’ technical specifications for any new products or enhancements on a timely basis, or to successfully market new products, could harm our business. If we cannot successfully develop and manufacture new products or meet specifications, our products could lose market share, our revenue and profits could decline, or we could experience operating losses. New technology or product introductions by our competitors could also cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance for our existing products or force us to significantly reduce the prices of our existing products. From time to time we have experienced delays in the introduction of, and certain technical and manufacturing difficulties with, some of our products, and we may experience technical and manufacturing difficulties and delays in future introductions of new products and enhancements. Our failure to develop, manufacture, and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset a decline in revenue from existing products or to successfully manage product and related inventory transitions could harm our business. Our success in developing, introducing, selling, and supporting new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including timely and efficient completion of hardware and software design and development, implementation of manufacturing processes, and effective sales, marketing, and customer service. Because of the complexity of our products, significant delays may occur between a product’s initial introduction and commencement of volume production. 16 Table of Contents The development and commercialization of new products involve many difficulties, including: • the identification of new product opportunities; • the retention and hiring of appropriate research and development personnel; • the determination of the product’s technical specifications; • the successful completion of the development process; • the successful marketing of the product and the risk of having customers embrace new technological advances; and • additional customer service costs associated with supporting new product introductions and/or effecting subsequent potential field upgrades. The development of new products may not be completed in a timely manner, and these products may not achieve acceptance in the market. The development of new products has required, and will require, that we expend significant financial and management resources. If we are unable to continue to successfully develop new products in response to customer requirements or technological changes, our business may be harmed. In connection with our cost control efforts, we have limited resources to allocate to research and development and must allocate our resources among a wide variety of projects. Because of intense competition in our industry, the cost of failing to invest in strategic products is high. If we fail to adequately invest in research and development, we may be unable to compete effectively in the intelligent automation markets in which we operate. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls and are restating certain historical financial statements. If we fail to develop and enhance an effective system of internal controls and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or obtain an unqualified attestation report from our independent auditors in the future, which could subject us to regulatory sanctions or litigation, harm our operating results and cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Effective internal controls required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls and disclosure controls that need improvement. In connection with the consolidation of our fiscal 2006 financial results, we identified a number of errors, primarily involving intercompany eliminations associated with our international subsidiaries, reflecting material weaknesses in our internal controls. Further, during the fiscal 2006 audit, our external auditors identified certain material weaknesses, which meant that they believed that there was “a reportable condition in which the design or operation of one or more of the internal control components does not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that misstatements caused by errors or fraud in amounts that would be material in relation to the consolidated financial statements being audited may occur and not be detected within a timely period by employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions.” The Company is completing amendments to its periodic reports to restate certain prior interim financial statements of fiscal 2006. We may be subject to regulatory investigation, sanctions and/or litigation as a result of such restatements. We are also addressing remediation of our internal controls and disclosure controls, as discussed under Item 9A. titled “Controls and Procedures.” Inadequate internal controls could lead to future restatements or impair our ability to timely file our future periodic reports with the SEC, all of which could subject us to regulation sanctions or litigation. To prepare for compliance with Section 404, which for the company under current regulations will be required as of June 30, 2008, we have undertaken certain actions including the adoption of an internal plan, which includes a timeline and schedule of activities for the evaluation, testing and remediation, as necessary, of internal controls. The remedied actions mentioned above and these actions have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased and significant expense, and have required and are likely to continue to require significant efforts by management and other employees. Failure to successfully complete such actions would 17 Table of Contents subject us to adverse actions by the SEC, NASDAQ and possibly litigation. In the future, our independent auditors must evaluate management’s assessment concerning the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and render an opinion on our assessment and the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that our internal controls measures will be timely or successful to ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future and our independent auditors may not be able to render an unqualified attestation concerning our assessment and the effectiveness of our internal controls. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could subject us to regulatory sanctions, harm our business and operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls and disclosure controls could also harm our reputation and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly-qualified managerial and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the intelligent automation industry is intense. Our inability to recruit, train, motivate and retain qualified management and technical personnel on a timely basis would adversely affect our ability to manage our operations and design, manufacture, market, and support our products, in addition to our ability to meet our requirements as a public company. We have recently experienced significant changes in our management, including hiring a new Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in June 2006 and changes in the last two years with respect to several other of our executive officers, and have not completed our succession planning with respect to our existing Chief Executive Officer (CEO). In 2004, we reorganized management and have since had turnover in management team personnel, which will require us to identify appropriate replacements for these roles. We reduced headcount in connection with our restructurings in prior fiscal years and made changes in other senior personnel, which changes, taken with our more recent management changes, may lead to employee questions regarding future actions by Adept leading to additional retention difficulties. Other than our CEO’s and CFO’s offer letter which include certain limited change of control severance if terminated, and offer letters with certain of our officers that include only basic compensation terms, we have no employment agreements with our management. We may incur credit risk-related losses because many of the resellers we sell to are small operations with limited financial resources. Substantial portions of our sales are to system integrators that specialize in designing and building production lines for manufacturers. Many of these companies are small operations with limited financial resources, and we have from time to time experienced difficulty in collecting payments from certain of these companies. As a result, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers. To the extent we are unable to mitigate this risk of collections from system integrators, our results of operations may be harmed. In addition, due to their limited financial resources, during extended market downturns the viability of some system integrators may be in question, which would also result in a reduction in our revenue or credit losses. We do not generally have long-term contracts with our customers, and our order bookings and backlog cannot be relied upon as a future indicator of sales. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers and existing contracts and purchase commitments may, under certain circumstances, be cancelled. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide meaningful assurance of future sales. Furthermore, our customers are not required to make minimum purchases and may cease purchasing our products at any time without penalty. Backlog should not be relied on as a measure of anticipated demand for our products or future revenue, because the orders constituting our backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules and in certain instances are subject to cancellation without significant penalty to the customer. Because our customers are free to purchase products from our competitors, we are exposed to competitive price pressure on each order. Any reductions, cancellations or deferrals in customer orders could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We market and sell our products primarily through an indirect channel comprised of third party resellers, and are subject to certain risks associated with this method of product marketing and distribution. We believe that our ability to sell products to system integrators and OEMs will continue to be important to our success. However, our relationships with system integrators and OEMs are generally not exclusive, and some of our system integrators and OEMs may expend a significant amount of effort or give higher priority to selling products of our competitors. In the future, any of our system integrators or our OEMs may discontinue their relationships with us or form additional competing arrangements with our competitors. The loss of, or a significant reduction in revenue from, system integrators or OEMs to which we sell a significant amount of our product could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot control the procurement, either with respect to the timing or amount of orders placed, by our resellers. We also cannot control the sales or marketing efforts of the systems integrators and OEMs who sell our products, which may result in lower revenue if they do not successfully market and sell our products or choose instead to promote competing products. As we enter new geographic and applications markets, we must locate and establish relationships with system integrators and OEMs to assist us in building sales in those markets. It can take an extended period of time and significant resources to establish a profitable relationship with a system integrator or OEM because of product integration expenses, training in product and technologies and sales training. We may not be successful in obtaining effective new system integrators or OEMs or in maintaining sales relationships with them. In the event a number of our system integrators and/or OEMs experience financial problems, terminate their relationships with us or substantially reduce the amount of our products they sell, or in the event we fail to build or maintain an effective systems integrator or OEM channel in any existing or new markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates could have a material impact on our results of operations. Forecasts of our income tax position and resultant effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets and costs resulting from tax audits. To forecast our global tax rate, pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction are estimated and tax expense by jurisdiction is calculated. If the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimates, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. If we cannot identify and make acquisitions of other technologies and products, our ability to expand our operations and increase our revenue may be impaired. A meaningful portion of our historical growth was attributable to acquisitions of other technologies and businesses. We expect that acquisitions of complementary products and technologies in the future may again play an important role in our ability to expand our operations and increase our revenue. Our ability to make acquisitions is challenged by our cash constraints, the level and volatility of our common stock price and thin trading volume affecting liquidity considerations, making equity transactions more expensive. If we are unable to identify suitable targets for acquisition or complete acquisitions on acceptable terms, our ability to expand our product and/or service offerings and increase our revenue will be impaired. Any acquisition we may make in the future could disrupt our business, increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial condition or operations. In the future we may make acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses that offer products, services, and technologies that management believes will further our strategic objectives. We cannot be certain that we would 19 Table of Contents successfully integrate any businesses, technologies or personnel that we might acquire, and any acquisitions might divert our management’s attention away from our core business. Any future acquisitions or investments we might make would present risks commonly associated with these types of transactions, including: • difficulty in combining the product offerings, operations, or workforce of an acquired business; • potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; • adverse effects on existing relationships with suppliers and customers; • disruptions of our on-going businesses; • difficulties in realizing our potential financial and strategic objectives through the successful integration of the acquired business; • difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • potential negative impact on results of operations due to goodwill impairment write-offs, amortization of intangible assets other than goodwill, or assumption of anticipated liabilities; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited previous experience; • potential negative impact of unanticipated liabilities or litigation; and • the diversion of management attention. The risks described above, either individually or in the aggregate, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that future acquisitions, if any, could provide for consideration to be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock. In addition, we may issue additional equity in connection with future acquisitions, which could result in dilution of our stockholders’ equity interest. Fluctuations in our stock price may make acquisitions more expensive or prevent us from being able to complete acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we become subject to unfair hiring or termination claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed personnel, incur liability for damages and/or incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. Companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring personnel or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. We may also experience actions against us for employment terminations which are perceived to be unjustified. Although to date we have not experienced any material claims, defending ourselves from these claims could divert the attention of our management away from our operations. Our hardware and software products may contain defects that could increase our expenses and exposure to liabilities and or harm our reputation and future business prospects. Our hardware and software products are complex and, despite extensive testing, our new or existing products or enhancements may contain defects, errors or performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after these products or enhancements have been used in the marketplace for a period of time. We may discover product defects only after a product has been installed and used by customers. We may discover defects, errors, or performance problems in future shipments of our products. These problems could result in expensive and time consuming design modifications or large warranty charges, expose us to liability for damages, damage customer relationships, and result in loss of market share, any of which could harm our reputation and future business prospects. In addition, increased development and warranty costs could reduce our operating profits and could result in losses. The existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products could also lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us, our channel partners, or against our customers. A successful product liability claim could 20 Table of Contents result in substantial cost and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we are not aware of any product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products entail the risk of these claims. If our hardware products do not comply with standards set forth by the European Union, we will not be able to sell them in Europe. The hardware products we sell in the European Union are required to comply with European Union Low Voltage, Electro-Magnetic Compatibility and Machinery Safety directives. The European Union mandates that our products carry the CE mark denoting that these products are manufactured in strict accordance to design guidelines in support of these directives. These guidelines are subject to change and to varying interpretation. New guidelines impacting machinery design go into effect each year. To date, we have retained TUV Rheinland to help certify that our controller-based products, including some of our robots, meet applicable European Union directives and guidelines. Adept hardware products have been declared as exempt by TUV Rheinland from the EU Directive WEEE/RoHS (Waste Electrical and Electronics Equipment/Reduction of Hazardous Substances). Although our existing certified products meet the requirements of the applicable European Union directives, we cannot provide any assurance that future products can be designed, within market window constraints, to meet the future requirements. If any of our robot products or any other major hardware products do not meet the requirements of the European Union directives, we would be unable to legally sell these products in Europe. Thus, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Such directives and guidelines could change in the future, forcing us to redesign or withdraw from the market one or more of our existing products that may have been originally approved for sale. Our failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology may significantly impair our competitive advantage. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology and trade secrets. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret protection, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights, but have not always sought patent or similar protection on our technology where it may have been available. The steps we have taken may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The patent and trademark law and trade secret protection may not be adequate to deter third party infringement or misappropriation of our patents, trademarks, and similar proprietary rights. In addition, patents issued to Adept may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Our rights granted under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us, and the claims under our patent applications may not be allowed. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which can demand significant financial and management resources. The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. Moreover, our existing patents or any new patents that may be issued may not be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights in order to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. We may face costly intellectual property infringement claims. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties asserting that we are infringing certain patents and other intellectual property rights of others or seeking indemnification against such alleged infringement. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation could include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. There are numerous patents in the automation components industry. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its 21 Table of Contents components infringes the intellectual property rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be forced to respond to intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customer’s rights. These claims, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being forced to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • pay damages, license fees or royalties to the party claiming infringement; • stop selling products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign the challenged technology, which could be time-consuming and costly. If we were forced to take any of these actions, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Risks Related to Our Industry The market for intelligent automation products is intensely competitive, which may make it difficult to manage and grow our business or to maintain or enhance our profitability. We compete with a number of robot, motion control, machine vision, and simulation software companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, we may in the future face competition from new entrants in one or more of our markets. Many of our competitors in the robot market are integrated manufacturers of products that produce robotics equipment internally for their own use and may also compete with our products for sales to other customers. Some of these large manufacturing companies have greater flexibility in pricing because they generate substantial unit volumes of robots for internal demand and may have access through their parent companies to large amounts of capital. Any of our competitors may seek to expand their presence in other markets in which we compete. We believe that other principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products are: • product functionality and reliability; • price; • customer service; • delivery, including timeliness, predictability, and reliability of delivery commitment dates; and • product features such as flexibility, programmability, and ease of use. Our current or potential competitors may develop products comparable or superior in terms of price and performance features to those developed by us or adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in connection with our research, development, engineering, marketing, and customer service efforts in order to meet any competitive threat, so that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We expect that in the event the intelligent automation market expands, competition in the industry will intensify as additional competitors enter our markets and current competitors expand their product lines. Increased competitive pressure could result in a loss of sales or market share or cause us to lower prices for our products, any of which could harm our business. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to effectively support the distinct needs of the multiple industries of our customers, the demand for our products may decrease and our revenue may decline. We market products for the electronic/communications, automotive, appliance, food, and life sciences industries. Because we operate in multiple industries, we must work constantly to understand the needs, standards, and technical requirements of numerous different industries and must devote significant resources to developing different products for these industries. Our results of operations are also subject to the cyclicality and downturns in these markets. Product development is costly and time consuming. Many of our products are used by our customers to develop, manufacture, and test their own products. As a result, we must anticipate trends in our customers’ industries and develop products before our customers’ products are commercialized. If we do not accurately predict our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest substantial resources in developing products that do not achieve broad market acceptance. Our decision to continue to offer products to a given market or to penetrate new markets is based in part on our judgment of the size, growth rate, and other factors that contribute to the attractiveness of a particular market. If our product offerings in any particular market are not competitive or our analyses of a market are incorrect, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Internally developing intelligent automation products is expensive, and these investments often require a long time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. Although our total expenditures for research and development have declined, we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we cannot predict that we will receive significant revenue from these investments, if at all. If we do not comply with environmental regulations, we may incur significant costs causing our overall business to suffer. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, and disposal of certain hazardous substances used in the manufacturing and assembly of our products. We believe that we are currently in compliance with all material environmental regulations in connection with our manufacturing operations, and that we have obtained all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. However, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could subject us to such consequences as: the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, and alteration of manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Compliance with environmental regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur substantial expenses. Our failure to control the use, disposal, removal, storage, or to adequately restrict the discharge of or assist in the cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances, could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liability under certain statutes. The imposition of liabilities of this kind would harm our financial condition. Risks Related to our Stock The sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants in the public market, and the concentration of our equity ownership by a small number of stockholders, could adversely affect the liquidity of Adept securities and the prevailing market price of our common stock. We had an aggregate of 7,605,142 shares of common stock outstanding in October 2006 shortly before the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In November 2003, we completed a private placement of an aggregate of approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock to several accredited investors. Investors in the 2003 financing also received warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 1.1 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $6.25 per share, with certain proportionate anti-dilution protections, and these warrants 23 Table of Contents could be exercised at any time. These investors beneficially own a substantial portion of our total outstanding equity securities, and these investors along with very few other stockholders together control the substantial majority of our outstanding common stock, which may affect the trading market for our stock, and also the results of the outcome of any matter upon which stockholders must vote or otherwise participate. We have registered for resale by the investors the shares of common stock issued, and to be issuable upon exercise of the warrants, in the 2003 financing and Adept’s 2006 financing. The selling security holders from the financings included in the registration statements may offer up to an aggregate of approximately 5.0 million shares of our common stock, including more than 1.1 million shares of which are not currently outstanding but may be in the future. Additionally, at June 30, 2006, options to purchase approximately 920,903 shares of our common stock were outstanding under our equity compensation plans, and an additional 540,575 shares of common stock were reserved for future grant and issuance under such plans. We also issue shares under our employee stock purchase plan. Shares of common stock issued under these plans generally will be freely tradable in the public market, subject to the Rule 144 limitations applicable to our affiliates. The exercise of options and conversion of the warrants will significantly increase the number of common shares outstanding, diluting the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Further, the sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of these outstanding options or issuable upon exercise of our warrants, or future options in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional preferred stock could delay or impede a change of control of our company and may adversely affect the price an acquirer is willing to pay for our common stock. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without further action by our stockholders, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences, and the number of shares constituting a series or the designation of such series. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings, and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Adept without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of, the holders of common stock. Additionally, the conversion of preferred stock into common stock may have a dilutive effect on the holders of common stock. Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past, and will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in the future in response to a variety of factors, including: • fluctuations in operating results, including as a result of compensation expense required by SFAS 123R and currency exchange fluctuations, and restatements of historical financial statements; • our liquidity needs and constraints; • effectiveness of cost control measures; • changes in our business focus and operational organization; • our restructuring activities and changes in management and other personnel; • the trading of our common stock on NASDAQ or other exchange; • the business environment, including the operating results and stock prices of companies in the industries we serve; • general conditions in the intelligent automation industry; • announcements concerning our business or that of our competitors or customers; 24 Table of Contents • the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • litigation regarding proprietary rights or other matters; • change in analysts’ earnings estimates; • developments in the financial markets; and • perceived dilution from stock issuances, including as a result of our 2003 and 2006 financings. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies, and high technology companies in particular, fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. Those fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, terrorist or other military actions, or international currency fluctuations, as well as public perception of equity values of publicly-traded companies may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may be subject to securities class action and other litigation as a result of our restatement, if our stock price remains volatile or operating results suffer, which could result in substantial costs, distract management, and damage our reputation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities or where operating results suffer. Companies like us, which are involved in rapidly changing markets, are particularly subject to this risk. Although our financial results have improved, we incurred net operating losses in recent fiscal years and our stock price remains volatile. On September 22, 2006, Adept announced the restatement of its financial statements for one or more prior interim periods due to material inaccuracies in historical financial statements. Adept intends to file amended quarterly reports for the first three fiscal quarters of 2006 reflecting such restatements. To date, there has been no overt claims made or litigation commenced with respect to the restatement matters or other matter of such announcement; however, such announcements often result in litigation of varying kinds against the issuer. We may be the target of litigation of this kind in the future. Any securities or other litigation could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources from our operations, and negatively affect our public image and reputation. Recent legislation, higher liability insurance costs and other increased costs of being public are likely to impact our future consolidated financial position and results of operations. Significant regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations promulgated as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These regulatory requirements have, and in the future, are expected to increase general and administrative costs. In addition, insurance companies significantly increased insurance rates after these regulatory changes. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles and adversely affect our financial position and operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 