Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties that may affect our future financial performance. Some of those important risks and uncertainties that may cause our operating results to vary or may materially and adversely affect our operating results are as follows: We must continue to develop and sell new titles in order to generate revenue and remain profitable. We derive almost all of our revenue from sales of interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles, handheld devices and personal computers. Even the most successful video games remain popular for only limited periods of time, often less than six months, and thus the success of our business is dependent upon our ability to continually develop and sell successful new games. Our business is "hit" driven. If we do not deliver "hit" games, our revenue and profitability can suffer. While many new products are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of "hit" titles account for a significant portion of video game sales. If we fail to develop "hit" titles, or if "hit" products published by our competitors take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, our product sales could fall below our expectations. Risk factors related to video game platforms: Our business is dependent upon the success and availability of the video game platforms on which consumers play our games. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony's PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PSP, Microsoft's Xbox 360, and Nintendo's Wii and DS. The following factors related to such platforms can adversely affect sales of our video games and our profitability: Popularity of platforms. In the previous console platform cycle, the PlayStation 2 was the best-selling platform and games for the PlayStation 2 dominated software sales. In the current platform cycle, the Wii is the best-selling platform to date; however, the Xbox 360 is currently the most popular console in terms of software game sales. Since the development cycle for a game is from 12 to 36 months, we must make decisions about which games to develop on which platforms before knowing what the consumer preference for the platforms will be when the game is finished. Choosing the wrong games for the wrong platforms could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Platform shortages. In the past few years, many of the platforms on which our games are played have experienced shortages and some, including the Nintendo Wii, are still difficult for consumers to purchase. Platform shortages generally negatively affect the sales of video games since consumers do not have consoles on which to play the games. Platform pricing. The current generation of console platforms are priced higher than their respective predecessor platforms. The Xbox 360 can cost as much as $449.99, the Wii is priced at $249.99 and the PS3 is priced at $399.99. The cost of the hardware could adversely affect their sales, which could negatively affect sales of our products for these platforms since consumers need a platform in order to play our games. Our inability to enter into agreements with the manufacturers to develop, publish and distribute titles on their platforms could seriously impact our operations. We are dependent on the platform manufacturers (Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony) and our non-exclusive licenses with them, both for the right to publish titles for their platforms and for the manufacture of our products for their platforms. Our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new games on a title-by-title basis. As a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these platforms, and our sales from titles for these platforms, may be limited. Should any manufacturer choose not to renew or extend our license agreement 9 at the end of its current term, or if any license were terminated, we would be unable to publish additional titles for that manufacturer's platform, which could negatively affect our operating results. Additionally, since each of the manufacturers publishes games for its own platform, and also manufactures products for all of its other licensees, a manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of other publishers in the event of insufficient manufacturing capacity. Unanticipated delays in the delivery of products due to delayed manufacturing could also negatively affect our operating results. Risk factors related to creating and acquiring our intellectual property: The loss of our key licenses, or renewals of such licenses on less advantageous terms, could cause our revenue to decline. Games we develop based upon a small number of licensed brands make up a substantial portion of our sales each year. In fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, sales of titles for our three top-selling brands, Disney•Pixar, Nickelodeon and World Wrestling Entertainment ("WWE") comprised 54% of our net sales; and in fiscal 2006, 47% of our net sales were based on titles from such brands. A limited number of licensed brands may continue to produce a disproportionately large amount of our sales. Due to this dependence on a limited number of brands, the loss of a brand license or the renewal of a brand license on less advantageous terms may significantly harm our business and financial results. We are currently involved in litigation with the WWE with respect to our video game license. Since WWE titles make up a significant portion of our sales, our inability to retain the license could harm us. See, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" for a more detailed discussion of this litigation. A decrease in the popularity of our licensed brands can materially affect our revenue. A significant portion of our net sales are derived from products based on popular licensed properties. A decrease in the popularity of the underlying property of our licenses could negatively impact our ability to sell games based on such licenses. Our inability to acquire or create new intellectual property that has a high level of consumer recognition or acceptance could harm us. We generate a portion of our revenue from wholly-owned intellectual property. The success of our internal brands depends on our ability to create original ideas that appeal to the avid gamer. Titles based on wholly-owned intellectual property can be expensive to develop and market since they do not have a built-in consumer base or licensor support. Our inability to create new products that find consumer acceptance could negatively impact our profitability. Risk factors related to the development of our products: Increasing development costs can decrease our profitability. Video games are becoming increasingly expensive to develop. Because the current generation console platforms and computers have greater complexity and capabilities than the earlier platforms and computers, costs are higher to develop games for the current generation platforms and computers. Greater costs can lead to lower operating margins, negatively affecting our profitability. Video game product development schedules are difficult to predict and can be subject to delays. Postponements in shipments can substantially impact our profitability in any given quarter. Our ability to meet product development schedules is affected by a number of factors, including the creative processes involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically-dispersed development teams required by the increasing complexity of our products, the need to refine and tune our products prior to their release, and the time required to manufacture a game once it is submitted to the manufacturer. We have in the past experienced development and manufacturing delays for several of our products. Failure to meet anticipated production schedules may cause a shortfall in our expected sales and profitability and cause our operating results in any given quarter to be materially different from expectations. Delays that prevent release of our products during peak selling seasons or in conjunction with specific events, such as the 10 release of a related movie, could significantly affect the sales of such products and thus our financial performance. Video games that are not high quality may not sell according to our forecast, which could materially impact our profitability in any given quarter. Consumers that buy games targeted at the mass market and core gamers prefer high-quality games. If our games are not high quality, consumers may not purchase as many games as we expected, which could materially impact our revenue and profitability in any given quarter. We have experienced development challenges on the PlayStation 3. Our inability to overcome our development challenges for games developed for the PlayStation 3 could negatively impact our revenue and profitability. We have experienced unexpected challenges in developing games for the PlayStation 3, which has caused us to miss ship dates or cancel games that were being developed for the platform. If we fail to successfully develop games for the PlayStation 3 in the future, our revenues and profitability could be materially affected. Defects in our game software could harm our reputation or decrease the market acceptance of our products. Our game software may contain defects. In addition, because we do not manufacture our games for console platforms, we may not discover defects until after our products are in use by retail customers. Any defects in our software could damage our reputation, cause our customers to terminate relationships with us or to initiate product liability suits against us, divert our engineering resources, delay market acceptance of our products, increase our costs or cause our revenue to decline. We rely on external developers for the development of some of our titles. Some of our titles are developed by third-party developers. We have no direct control over the business, finances and operational practices of these external developers. A delay or failure to complete the work performed by external developers may result in delays in, or cancellations of, product releases. Additionally, the future success of externally-developed titles will depend on our continued ability to maintain relationships and secure agreements on favorable terms with skilled external developers. Our competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers' services for our products, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete for us. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish or maintain such relationships with external developers and failure to do so could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Risk factors related to distribution of our products: Software pricing. Software prices for the current generation console games are higher than prices for games for the predecessor platforms. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to pay the higher prices of these games. Additionally, although we still publish games for the PlayStation 2, as consumers purchase games for current generation consoles rather than for the PS2 and demand for games on the PS2 declines, the prices of our games for the PS2 may also decline. Reduced pricing of our PS2 products may result in lower revenues, which could materially affect our profitability. We rely on a small number of customers that account for a significant amount of our sales. Our largest single customer, Wal-Mart, accounted for more than 10% of our gross sales in the last three fiscal years. In fiscal 2008, our five largest customers, including Wal-Mart, accounted for 41% of our gross sales. A substantial reduction, termination of purchases, or business failure by any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on us. We compete aggressively with other video game publishers for retail shelf space. Our inability to get our games placed on retailers' shelves could materially impact our revenues and profitability. As video game publishers strive to release more blockbuster titles and as retailers merge, competition for retail shelf space may become more intense. Our inability to get our products on retailers' shelves may force us to increase our 11 marketing expenditures to maintain sales of our titles. Increased expenses without corresponding increased sales could reduce our profit margins and thus have a negative effect on our business and financial results. Lack of retailer support for categories in which we publish games could negatively affect the sales of our products. In fiscal 2008, retailers strongly supported games that were music or peripheral-based and we did not publish any games in this category. Future lack of retailer support for our key games could cause lower sales of such games, negatively affecting our revenue and profitability. Increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. Increased sales of used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games, by one of our key customers could negatively affect our sales of new titles and thus our revenues. Risk factors related to competition: Competitive launches may negatively affect the sales of our games. We compete for consumer dollars with several other video game publishers and consumers must make choices among available games. If we make our games available for sale at the same time as many other new games become available, consumers may choose to spend their money on products published by our competitors rather than our products and retailers may choose to give more shelf space to our competitors' products, leaving less space to sell our products. Since the life cycle of a game is short, strong sales of our competitors' games could negatively affect the sales of our games. Competition in the interactive software entertainment industry may lead to reduced sales of our products and reduced market share. Our industry is intensely competitive. We compete for both the sale of games and licenses to properties with the platform manufacturers and other publishers. Such competition could negatively affect sales of our games as follows: Development of software by hardware manufacturers. Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony have each increased development efforts of software for their own hardware platforms. As a result of their commanding positions in the industry, the manufacturers may have better bargaining positions with respect to retail pricing, shelf space and retailer accommodations than do any of their licensees, including us. Additionally, the manufacturers can bundle their software with their hardware, creating less demand for individual sales of our products. Development of software and online games by intellectual property owners. As discussed above, a significant portion of our revenue is due to sales of games based upon licensed properties. In recent years, some of our key licensors, including Disney and Warner Bros., have increased their development of video games, which could lead to such licensors not renewing our licenses to publish games based upon their properties or not grant future licenses to develop games based upon such properties. If we do not publish such games, our revenue could be significantly affected. Competition for licenses. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition among consumers and licensors of properties, a broader product line, or greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to market their products more effectively or make larger offers or guarantees in connection with the acquisition of licensed properties. As competition for popular properties increases, our cost of acquiring licenses for such properties may increase, resulting in reduced margins. Competition with emerging forms of home-based entertainment may reduce sales of our products. We also compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. For example, we believe the overall growth in the use of the internet and online services by consumers may pose a competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their available time using interactive entertainment software and more using the internet and online services. 12 Competition for qualified personnel is intense in the interactive software entertainment industry and failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could seriously harm our business. We rely to a substantial extent on the management, marketing, sales, technical and software development skills of a limited number of employees to formulate and implement our business plan. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for employees can be intense and the process of locating key personnel with the right combination of skills is often lengthy. The loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Consolidation in the interactive software entertainment industry presents challenges with respect to resources and integration of acquired businesses. Consistent with our strategy to expand our internal development capabilities and distribution channels, we intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of companies, intellectual property rights and other assets that can be acquired on acceptable terms and which we believe can be operated or exploited profitably. As our industry continues to consolidate, we face additional competitive pressures that can negatively affect our business. Further, as we acquire companies, we are faced with additional challenges. The integration of newly-acquired companies' operations with our existing operations requires management time and effort. Additionally, there is a risk of loss of key employees, customers and vendors of the recently-acquired companies. Emerging video game platforms, such as MMO games or games for wireless devices, require investments and present many risks. Globally, MMO games have rapidly become a popular way to play video games. Additionally, wireless network and mobile phone technologies are continually undergoing rapid innovation. New mobile phones with more advanced processors and supporting advanced programming languages continue to be introduced in the market. We have no control over the demand for, or success of, these products. However, if we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, our market share and our operating results may suffer. Our future success in providing online games, wireless games and other content will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, develop applications to accommodate evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our applications. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations, which may subject us to economic, political, regulatory and other risks. In fiscal 2008 we derived 51% of our net sales outside of North America, up from 42% in fiscal 2007. We intend to continue expanding our international operations, which may subject us to many risks, including: different consumer preferences, challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences in doing business with foreign entities, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, and possible difficulties collecting foreign accounts receivable. These factors or others could have an adverse effect on our future foreign sales or the profits generated from these sales. There are additional risks inherent in doing business in certain international markets, such as China. For example, foreign exchange controls may prevent us from expatriating cash earned in China and standard business practices in China may increase our risk of violating U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Additionally, sales generated by our international offices will generally be denominated in the currency of the country in which the sales are made. To the extent our foreign sales are not denominated in U.S. dollars, our sales and profits could be materially and adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. 13 We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against piracy, infringement of our patents by third parties, or declining legal protection for intellectual property. We defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is difficult. Unauthorized production occurs in the computer software industry generally, and if a significant amount of unauthorized production of our products were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We hold copyrights on the products, manuals, advertising and other materials owned by us and we maintain certain trademark rights. We regard our titles, including the underlying software, as proprietary and rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, among other methods, to protect our rights. We include with our products a "shrink-wrap" or "click-wrap" license agreement which imposes limitations on use of the software. It is uncertain to what extent these agreements and limitations are enforceable, especially in foreign countries. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and software piracy is a persistent problem, especially in some international markets. Further, the laws of some countries where our products are or may be distributed either do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or are poorly enforced. Legal protection of our rights may be ineffective in such countries. We cannot be certain that existing intellectual property laws will provide adequate protection for our products. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, from time to time we receive notices from others claiming we have infringed their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow. Responding to these claims may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, require us to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or pay damages or satisfy indemnification commitments including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. If we are required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, our operating margins may decline as a result. We cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or the impact of the same on our operations or the market price for our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal controls over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal controls procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to seasonality in the interactive software entertainment industry and other factors related to our business operations could result in substantial losses to investors. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in sales and operating results. The interactive software entertainment market is highly seasonal, with sales typically significantly higher during the year-end holiday buying season. Other factors that cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results include: •the timing of our release of new titles as well as the release of our competitors' products; 14 •the popularity of both new titles and titles released in prior periods; •the profit margins for titles we sell; •the competition in the industry for retail shelf space; •fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of consumer demand for titles for different platforms; and •the timing of the introduction of new platforms and the accuracy of retailers' forecasts of consumer demand. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. We may not be able to maintain consistent profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. It is likely that in some future quarter, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors as a result of the factors described above and others described throughout this "Risk Factors" section, and the price of our common stock may fall or significantly fluctuate. Rating systems and future legislation may make it difficult to successfully market and sell our products. Currently, the interactive software entertainment industry is self-regulated and rated by the Entertainment Software Rating Board ("ESRB"). Our retail customers take the ESRB rating into consideration when deciding which of our products they will purchase. If the ESRB or a manufacturer determines that a product should have a rating directed to an older or more mature consumer, we may be less successful in our marketing and sales of a particular product. From time to time, legislation has been introduced at the local, state and federal levels for the establishment of a government mandated rating and governing system in the United States and in foreign countries for our industry. Various foreign countries already allow government censorship of interactive entertainment products. We believe that if our industry were to become subject to a government rating system or other regulation, our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. Any significant downturn in general economic conditions that results in a reduction in discretionary spending could reduce demand for our products and harm our business. Our product sales are affected by the retail customer's ability and desire to spend disposable income on the purchase of our games. Any significant downturn in general economic conditions that results in a reduction in discretionary spending could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could harm our business. Such industry downturns have been, and may continue to be, characterized by diminished product demand and subsequent erosion of average selling prices. Because of these and other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 