Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business is subject to many risks and uncertainties that may impact our future financial performance. Some of those important risks and uncertainties that may cause our operating results to vary or may materially and adversely impact our net sales, operating results and cash flows are described below. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. We have incurred operating losses during the last five fiscal years. We have restructured our business operations in order to adjust our cost structure to better align with our expected future business; however, we may continue to incur losses in the future.We have had operating losses during the last five fiscal years. In fiscal 2012, we exited development of traditional kids' and movie-based licensed console games and revised our strategy to focus on our premium core franchises and to expand our digital revenues. As part of this business realignment, we implemented initiatives to streamline our organization and reduce our cost structure. We expect these actions to result in annualized reductions in our expenditures that will align with our expected lower levels of future net sales and thus allow us to become profitable; however, in the event our future net sales or required expenditures differ from our expectations for any reason, we may continue to incur losses in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our net sales in future years.We may require additional capital to fund our planned business operations.Development of quality products requires substantial up-front expenditures and thus we expect to utilize a substantial portion of our existing cash and cash equivalents and other working capital to develop our upcoming products. In addition to our cash and cash equivalents, we have a $50.0 million credit facility that we expect to draw against in order to fund our business operations. We believe we have adequate resources to execute on our product plan and deliver our multi-year pipeline of games; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so without additional capital. In the event our future net sales or required expenditures differ from our expectations for any reason, and our external liquidity sources, including our credit facility and vendor credit terms, are not sufficient to meet our operating requirements, we may need to defer and/or curtail currently-planned expenditures, cancel projects currently in development, and/or pursue additional funding or additional external sources of liquidity, which may not be available on financially attractive terms, if at all, to meet our cash needs.Our stock currently fails to meet the Nasdaq continued listing requirements. If we fail to regain compliance with continued listing requirements, our stock may be delisted.On January 25, 2012, we received a written notification from Nasdaq notifying us that we fail to comply with Nasdaq's Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1) (the “Rule”) because the bid price for our common stock, over the last 30 consecutive business days, has closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing. The notification had no immediate effect on the listing of our common stock. In accordance with Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have a period of 180 calendar days, or until July 23, 2012, to regain compliance with the Rule. If at any time before July 23, 2012, the bid price of our common stock closes at or above $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, Nasdaq will provide written notification that we have achieved compliance with the Rule. If compliance with the Rule cannot be demonstrated by July 23, 2012, our common stock 9Table of Contentswill be subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Global Market. In the event that we receive notice that our common stock is subject to being delisted from The Nasdaq Global Select Market, Nasdaq rules permit us to appeal any delisting determination by the Nasdaq staff to a Nasdaq hearings panel.On June 29, 2012, at a special meeting, our stockholders will vote on a proposal to approve an amendment to our certificate of incorporation in order to effect a reverse stock split of our common stock at a ratio of one-for-three, one-for-five, or one-for-ten, such ratio and effective date to be determined in the sole discretion of the Board (the “Reverse Stock Split”). It is anticipated that the Reverse Stock Split will be effectuated on or about July 5, 2012. In the event that our stockholders fail to approve the Reverse Stock Split or if our stock price fails to increase above $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days following the Reverse Stock Split, or we fail to meet any of the other listing requirements in the future, we may not be able to maintain our Nasdaq listing, which could have a material adverse effect on the market for and the market price of our common stock. We may not be able to refinance or generate sufficient cash to service and/or pay our convertible senior notes. On August 4, 2009, we issued the convertible senior notes ("Notes"). The Notes pay interest semiannually, in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year and are due August 15, 2014, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. If we fail to maintain our listing with any U.S. national securities exchange, the holders of the Notes may require us to repay the principal prior to the maturity date. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on the Notes will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to refinance the Notes or maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal or interest on the Notes. In addition, if the Notes are converted to common stock, our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership.Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide economic uncertainties. Our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. As a result, our products are sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles. In the recent past, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and adverse business conditions. Any continuation or worsening of the current global economic and financial conditions could materially adversely affect (i) our ability to raise, or the cost of, needed capital, (ii) our ability to properly budget and forecast for future net sales and expenditures, and (iii) demand for our current and future products. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the video game industry.Our business is "hit" driven. If we do not deliver "hit" games, our net sales, operating results and cash flows could suffer. While many new titles are regularly introduced in our industry, increasingly, only a relatively small number of "hit" titles account for a significant portion of video game sales. It is difficult to produce high-quality products and to predict prior to production and distribution what products will be well received, even if they are well-reviewed, high-quality titles. "Hit" products published by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than anticipated, which could cause our product sales to fall below expectations. Consumers may lose interest in a genre of games we produce. If we fail to develop "hit" titles, or if "hit" products published by our competitors take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, our product sales could fall below our expectations, which could adversely impact our net sales, operating results and cash flows.We will depend on a relatively small number of franchises for a significant portion of our net sales.Because we no longer develop traditional kids' and movie-based licensed console games and have revised our strategy to focus on our premium core franchises and to expand our digital revenues, we will depend on a smaller number of franchises and titles for a significant portion of our net sales in the future. Due to this dependence on a limited number of franchises, the failure to achieve anticipated results by one or more products based on these franchises may significantly impact our business and financial results. If our products fail to gain market acceptance, we may not have sufficient cash flow to pay our expenditures or to develop a continuous stream of new games. Our success depends on generating net sales from existing and new products. The market for video game products is subject to continually changing consumer preferences and the frequent introduction of new products. As a result, video game 10Table of Contentsproducts typically have short market lives, often less than six months. Our products may not achieve and sustain market acceptance sufficient to generate net sales to cover our costs and allow us to become profitable. If our products fail to gain market acceptance, we may not have sufficient cash flows to develop a continuous stream of new games, which we believe is essential to covering costs and achieving future profitability.We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. A significant portion of our cost structure is attributable to expenditures for personnel, facilities and external development. In the event of additional declines in our current expected net sales, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel, terminate contracts or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant cash termination and exit costs. Management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in net sales or cash flow. Moreover, reducing costs may hinder our ability to develop a sufficient number of software titles to publish in the future.Failure to appropriately adapt to rapid technological and consumer preference changes or emerging digital channels may adversely impact our market share and our operating results. Rapid technological and consumer preference changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and services competitive and appealing to consumers. Currently, our industry is experiencing an increasing shift to online content and digitally downloaded games. We believe that much of the growth in the industry is coming from online markets and digital distribution of games, paid downloadable content ("DLC"), multi-player online games via services such as Xbox Live Arcade and free-to-play micro-transaction based games. Accordingly, we plan to continue integrating a digital component into all of our key franchises. However, if we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes or distribution channels, our market share and our operating results may suffer. Our future success in providing online experiences and other digital content will depend upon our ability to adapt to rapidly-changing technologies, develop applications to accommodate evolving industry standards, improve the performance and reliability of our applications, as well as anticipate future consumer preferences.Connectivity issues related to digital sales and online gameplay could impact our ability to sell and provide online services and content for our games, and could impact our net sales, operating results and cash flows.We rely upon various third-party providers, such as Microsoft's Xbox Live, Sony's PlayStation Network, and Valve's Steam platform to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. Connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be negatively impacted. In addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internally managed servers. Such issues also could impact our ability to provide online services, and could negatively impact our net sales, cash flows, and operating results.Our inability to maintain, acquire or create new intellectual property that has a high level of consumer recognition or acceptance could adversely impact our net sales, operating results and cash flows. We generate a portion of our net sales from owned intellectual property and, under our business plan, expect to continue to generate net sales from our owned intellectual property. The success of our internal brands depends upon our ability to create original ideas that appeal to the core gamer. Titles based on owned intellectual property can be expensive to develop and market since they do not have a built-in consumer base or licensor support. Our inability to create new products that find consumer acceptance could negatively impact our net sales, operating results and cash flows.Some of our products are based on intellectual property rights licensed from third parties. Failure to retain or renew such licenses, or renewals of such licenses on less advantageous terms, could cause our net sales and operating results to decline. Some of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property and other character or story rights licensed from third parties. For example, we annually release games based on our license with the WWE. These license and distribution agreements are limited in scope and time, and we may not be able to retain the licenses during the entire term or be able to renew key licenses when they expire. The loss of a significant number of intellectual property licenses or relationships with licensors could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop new products and therefore on our net sales and operating results. Additionally, the failure of intellectual property we license to be, or remain, popularly received could impact the market acceptance of those products in which the intellectual property is included. Such lack of market acceptance could result in the write-off of the unrecovered portion of minimum royalty guarantees, which could harm our business and financial results. Furthermore, competition for these licenses 11Table of Contentsmay also increase the advances, guarantees, and royalties that must be paid to the licensor.High development costs for games which do not perform as anticipated and failure of platforms to achieve significant market penetration could result in potential impairments of capitalized software development and/or license costs, which would negatively affect our operating results. Video games played on consoles and certain online-enabled games are expensive to develop. If our games do not achieve significant market penetration, we may not be able to recover our development costs, which could result in the impairment of capitalized software and/or costs, which would negatively affect our operating results. Video game product development schedules are difficult to predict and can be subject to delays. Postponements in shipments can substantially impact our net sales, cash flows and operating results in any given quarter. Our ability to meet product development schedules is impacted by a number of factors, including the creative processes involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically-dispersed development teams required by the complexity of our products, the need to localize certain products for distribution outside of the U.S., the need to refine our products prior to their release, and the time required to manufacture a game once it is submitted to the platform manufacturer. In the past, we have experienced development and manufacturing delays for several of our products. Failure to meet anticipated production schedules may cause a shortfall in our expected net sales and cash flow and thus cause our operating results and cash position in any given quarter to be materially different from expectations given our reduced product line-up. We rely on external developers for the development of some of our titles. Some of our games are developed by third-party developers. We do not have direct control over the business, finances and operational practices of these external developers. A delay or failure to complete the work performed by external developers has and may in the future result in delays in, or cancellations of, product releases. Additionally, the future success of externally-developed titles will depend on our continued ability to maintain relationships and secure agreements on favorable terms with skilled external developers. Our competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers' services for our products, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete for us. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish or maintain such relationships with external developers, and failure to do so could result in a negative impact on our business and financial results. Defects in our game software could harm our reputation or decrease the market acceptance of our products. Our game software may contain defects. In addition, because we do not manufacture our games for console platforms, we may not discover defects until after our products are in use by retail customers. Any defects in our software could damage our reputation, cause our customers to terminate relationships with us or to initiate product liability suits against us, divert our engineering resources, delay market acceptance of our products, increase our costs or cause our net sales to decline.Our business is dependent upon the success and availability of the video game platforms on which consumers play our games. We derive most of our net sales from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as PS3, Xbox 360, and the Wii and DS. The following factors related to such platforms can adversely impact sales of our video games and our profitability: Popularity of platforms. Since the typical development cycle for our games is 9 to 36 months, we must make decisions about which games to develop on which platforms based on current expectations of what the consumer preference for the platforms will be when the game is finished. Launching a game on a platform that has declined in popularity, or failure to launch a game on a platform that has grown in popularity, could negatively impact our net sales, cash flows and operating results. Platform pricing. The cost of the hardware could impact consumer purchases of such hardware, which could in turn negatively impact sales of our products for these platforms since consumers need a platform in order to play most of our games. Success of new platforms. We must make substantial product development and other investments in a particular platform well in advance of introduction of the platform and may be required to realign our product portfolio and development efforts in response to market changes. Furthermore, development costs for new console platforms are greater than such costs for current console platforms if we do not have the ability to re-utilize development engines for new platforms. If any increase in development 12Table of Contentscosts are not offset by higher net sales, operating results will suffer and our financial position will be harmed. If the platforms for which we develop new software products or modify existing products do not attain significant market penetration, we may not be able to recover our development costs, which could be significant, and our business and financial results could be significantly harmed.Platform shortages. From time to time, the platforms on which our games are played have experienced shortages. Platform shortages generally negatively impact the sales of video games since consumers do not have consoles on which to play the games.Transitions in console platforms could adversely affect the market for interactive entertainment software.In 2005, Microsoft released the Xbox 360 and, in 2006, Sony and Nintendo introduced the PS3 and Wii, respectively. Nintendo has announced that it intends to launch its next-generation console, the Wii U, in all major regions by the 2012 calendar year-end holiday buying season. When new console platforms are announced or introduced into the market, consumers typically reduce their purchases of game console entertainment software products for current console platforms in anticipation of new platforms becoming available. During these periods, sales of game console entertainment software products we publish may slow or even decline until new platforms are introduced and achieve wide consumer acceptance. This decline may not be offset by increased sales of products for the new console platforms. As console hardware moves through its life cycle, hardware manufacturers typically enact price reductions and decreasing prices may put downward pressure on software prices. During platform transitions, we may simultaneously incur costs both in continuing to develop and market new titles for prior-generation video game platforms, which may not sell at premium prices, and also in developing products for current-generation platforms, which will not generate immediate or near-term revenue. As a result, our operating results during platform transitions may be more volatile and more difficult to predict than during other times, and such volatility may cause greater fluctuations in our stock price.Our inability to enter into agreements with the manufacturers to develop, publish and distribute titles on their platforms, changes to the royalty rates and fees in such agreements, or delays in manufacturing our products could negatively impact our net sales, cash flow and results of operations. We are dependent on the platform manufacturers (Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony) and our non-exclusive licenses with them, both for the right to publish titles for their platforms and for the manufacture of our products for their platforms. Our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new games on a title-by-title basis. As a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these platforms, and our sales from titles for these platforms, may be limited. Should any manufacturer choose not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if any license were terminated, we would be unable to publish additional titles for that manufacturer's platform, which could negatively impact our operating results. Additionally, we pay a licensing fee to the hardware manufacturers for each copy of a product manufactured for that manufacturer's game platform. The platform licensors have retained the flexibility to change their fee structures and/or pricing for online gameplay and features for their consoles and the manufacturing of products. The control that platform licensors have over the fee structures and/or pricing for their platforms and online access makes it difficult for us to predict our costs in the medium-to-long term. Any increase in fee structures and/or pricing could have a significant negative impact on our business models and operating results.Further, since each of the manufacturers publishes games for its own platform, and some also manufacture products for all of its other licensees, a manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of other publishers in the event of insufficient manufacturing capacity. Unanticipated delays in the delivery of products due to delayed manufacturing could also negatively impact our operating results.We rely on a small number of customers that account for a significant amount of our sales. If these customers reduce their purchases of our products or become unable to pay for them, our business could be harmed. Our largest customers, Best Buy, COKeM, GameStop, Target, and Walmart, in aggregate accounted for approximately 43% of our consolidated gross sales before the impact of changes in deferred gross revenue in fiscal 2012. Sales to these customers are made on a purchase order basis without long-term agreements or other forms of commitments. A substantial reduction or termination of purchases by any of our significant customers could negatively affect our net sales, cash flows and operating results. In addition, if one or more of our significant customers experience deterioration in their business, or become unable to obtain sufficient financing to maintain their operations and pay their outstanding receivables to us, our business and financial results could be harmed.13Table of ContentsWe may face difficulty obtaining access to retail shelf space necessary to market and sell our products effectively. Retailers typically have a limited amount of shelf space and promotional resources, and there is intense competition among consumer interactive entertainment software products for high quality retail shelf space and promotional support from retailers. To the extent the number of products and platforms increases, competition for shelf space may intensify and may require us to increase our marketing expenditures. Retailers with limited shelf space typically devote the most and highest quality shelf space to those products expected to be best sellers. We cannot be certain that our new products will consistently achieve such "best seller" status. Due to increased competition for limited shelf space, retailers and distributors are in an increasingly better position to negotiate favorable terms of sale, including price discounts, price protection, marketing and display fees, and product return policies. Our products constitute a relatively small percentage of most retailers' sales volume. We cannot be certain that retailers will continue to purchase our products or to provide those products with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support on acceptable terms which may significantly harm our business and financial results.Increased sales of used video game products by retailers could reduce demand for new copies of our games. Several retailers, including one of our largest customers, GameStop, continue to focus on selling used video games, which provides higher margins for the retailers than sales of new games. This focus reduces demand for new copies of our games. We believe customer retention through compelling online play and downloadable content offers may reduce consumers' propensity to trade in games; however, retailers' continued sales of used games, rather than new games, may adversely impact our ability to sell new games and could adversely impact our net sales, operating results, and cash flow in any given quarter.Software pricing and sales allowances may impact our net sales and profitability. We establish sales allowances based on estimates of future price protection and returns with respect to current period product net sales. While we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price protection, if product sell-through does not perform in line with our current expectations, return rates and price protection could exceed our reserves, and our net sales could be negatively impacted in future periods.If we are unable to sustain premium pricing on current-generation titles, our operating results may suffer.If we are unable to sustain premium pricing on current-generation titles for the Xbox 360, PS3 and the Wii for as long as those platforms remain current generation, whether due to competitive pressure, retailers electing to price these products at a lower price or otherwise, we may experience a negative effect on our margins and operating results. Additionally, software prices for games sold for play on the PS3 and Xbox 360 are generally higher than prices for games for the Wii, handheld platforms or PC games. As a result, our product mix in any given fiscal quarter or fiscal year may cause our net sales to significantly fluctuate, depending on which platforms we release games on, in that quarter or year. Further, we make provisions for in-channel price reductions based upon certain assumed lowest prices and if competitive pressures force us to lower our prices below those levels, we may experience a negative effect on our margins and operating results.Development of software by platform manufacturers may lead to reduced sales of our products. The platform manufacturers, Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony, each develop software for their own hardware platforms. As a result of their commanding positions in the industry, the platform manufacturers may have better bargaining positions with respect to retail pricing, shelf space and retailer accommodations than do any of their licensees, including us. Additionally, the platform manufacturers can bundle their software with their hardware, creating less demand for individual sales of our products. Continued or increased dominance of software sales by the platform manufacturers may lead to reduced sales of our products and thus lower net sales. Increased development of software and online games by intellectual property owners and developers may lead to reduced net sales. Some of our games are based upon licensed intellectual properties. In recent years, licensors and independent developers have increased their development of video games in digital and other online distribution channels, which could lead to such licensors not renewing our licenses to publish games based upon their properties that we currently publish, or not granting future licenses to us to develop games based on their other properties. If intellectual property owners continue expanding internal efforts to develop video games based upon properties that they own rather than renewing our licenses or granting us additional licenses, our net sales could be significantly impacted.14Table of ContentsCompetitive launches may negatively impact the sales of our games. We compete for consumer dollars with several other video game publishers, and consumers must make choices among available games. If we make our games available for sale at the same time as our competitors' games become available, consumers may choose to spend their money on products published by our competitors rather than our products, and retailers may choose to give more shelf space to our competitors' products, leaving less space to sell our products. Since the life cycle of a game is typically short, strong sales of our competitors' games could negatively impact the sales of our games.Competition with other forms of home-based entertainment may reduce sales of our products. We compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. For example, we believe the overall growth in the use of the Internet, tablets and online services, including social networking, by consumers may pose a competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their available time playing our core, higher-priced video games and more of their time using the Internet, including playing social networking games on the Internet, tablets or mobile devices.. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in the interactive entertainment software industry and failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could seriously harm our business. To a substantial extent, we rely on the management, marketing, sales, technical and software development skills of a limited number of employees to formulate and implement our business plan. To a significant extent, our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for employees can be intense and the process of locating key personnel with the right combination of skills is often lengthy. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business.A significant portion of our net sales is derived from our international operations, which may subject us to economic, currency, political, regulatory and other risks. In fiscal 2012, excluding the impact of changes in deferred net revenue, we derived 38.3% of our consolidated net sales from outside of North America. Our international operations subject us to many risks, including: different consumer preferences; challenges in doing business with foreign entities caused by distance, language and cultural differences; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; reduced access to retail sales channels caused by financial stability of retailers; and possible difficulties collecting foreign accounts receivable. These factors or others could have an adverse impact on our future foreign sales or the profits generated from those sales. There are additional risks inherent in doing business in certain international markets, such as China. For example, foreign exchange controls may prevent us from expatriating cash earned in China, and standard business practices in China may increase our risk of violating U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Additionally, sales generated by our international offices will generally be denominated in the currency of the country in which the sales are made, and may not correlate to the currency in which inventory is purchased, or software is developed. To the extent our foreign sales are not denominated in U.S. dollars, our sales and profits could be materially and adversely impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. Year-over-year changes in foreign currency translation rates had the mathematical effect of increasing our reported net loss by approximately $1.9 million in fiscal 2012.Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to seasonality in the interactive entertainment software industry and other factors related to our business operations could result in substantial losses to investors. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in sales and operating results. The interactive entertainment software industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically significantly higher during the calendar year-end holiday buying season. Other factors that cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results include: •the timing of our release of new titles as well as the release of our competitors' products;•the popularity of both new titles and titles released in prior periods;•the deferral or subsequent recognition of net sales and costs related to certain of our products which contain online functionality;•the profit margins for titles we sell;•the competition in the industry for retail shelf space;•fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of consumer demand for titles for different platforms; and15Table of Contents•the timing of the introduction of new platforms and the accuracy of retailers' forecasts of consumer demand. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. We may not be able to maintain consistent profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. It is likely that in some future quarter, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors as a result of the factors described above and others described throughout this "Risk Factors" section, which may in turn cause the price of our common stock to fall or significantly fluctuate.Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock historically has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us (including those discussed in this "Risk Factors" section, as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material), to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors impacting the entertainment, computer, software, Internet, media or electronics industries, to our ability to successfully integrate any acquisitions we may make, or to national or international economic conditions. In particular, economic downturns may contribute to the public stock markets' experiencing extreme price and trading volume volatility. These broad market fluctuations have and could continue to adversely impact the market price of our common stock.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against piracy, infringement by third parties, or limited legal protection for intellectual property. We defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is difficult. Unauthorized production occurs in the computer software industry generally, and if a significant amount of unauthorized production of our products were to occur, it could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. We hold copyrights on the products, manuals, advertising and other materials owned by us and we maintain certain trademark rights. We regard our titles, including the underlying software, as proprietary and rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, among other methods, to protect our rights. We include with our products a "shrink-wrap" or "click-wrap" license agreement which imposes limitations on use of the software. It is uncertain to what extent these agreements and limitations are enforceable, especially in foreign countries. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and software piracy is a persistent problem, especially in some international markets. Further, the laws of some countries where our products are or may be distributed, either do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., or are poorly enforced. Legal protection of our rights may be ineffective in such countries. We cannot be certain that existing intellectual property laws will provide adequate protection for our products. Software piracy may negatively impact our business. Software piracy is increasing rapidly in the video game industry. The growth in peer-to-peer networks and other channels to download pirated copies of our products, the increasing availability of broadband access to the Internet and the proliferation of technology designed to circumvent the protection measures used with our products all have contributed to an expansion in piracy. While we are taking various steps to protect our intellectual property and prevent illegal downloading of our video games, we may not be successful in preventing or controlling such piracy, which may adversely impact our business.While legal protections exist to combat piracy, preventing and curbing infringement through enforcement of our intellectual property rights may be difficult, costly and time consuming, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Further, the scope of the legal protection of copyright and prohibitions against the circumvention of technological protection measures to protect copyrighted works are often under scrutiny by courts and governing bodies. The repeal or weakening of laws intended to combat piracy, protect intellectual property and prohibit the circumvention of technological protection measures could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect against piracy. These factors could have an adverse effect on our growth operational results in the future. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, from time to time, we receive notices from others claiming we have infringed their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow. Responding to these claims may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, require us to stop selling or to redesign impacted products, or pay damages or satisfy indemnification 16Table of Contentscommitments including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. If we are required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, our cash flows and operating margins may decline as a result.If one or more of our titles were found to contain objectionable undisclosed content, our business could suffer. Throughout the history of our industry, many video games have been designed to include certain hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. However, in some cases, objectionable undisclosed content or features, which were placed in games without the publishers' knowledge, have been found in interactive entertainment software products. In a few cases, the Entertainment Software Ratings Board (“ESRB”) has reacted to discoveries of undisclosed content and features in other publisher's products by changing the rating that was originally assigned to the product, requiring the publisher to change the game and/or game packaging and/or fining the publisher. Retailers have on occasion reacted to the discovery of such undisclosed content by removing these games from their shelves, refusing to sell them, and demanding that the publishers accept them as product returns. Likewise, some consumers have reacted to the revelation of undisclosed content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games they have already purchased, refraining from buying other games published by the company whose game contained the objectionable material, and, on at least one occasion, filing a lawsuit against the publisher of the product containing such content. We have implemented preventive measures designed to reduce the possibility of objectionable undisclosed content from appearing in the video games we publish. Nonetheless, these preventive measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. If a video game we publish is found to contain undisclosed content, we could be subject to any of these consequences and our reputation could be harmed, which could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition, and our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Rating systems and future legislation may make it difficult to successfully market and sell our products. Currently, the interactive entertainment software industry is self-regulated and products are rated by the ESRB. Our retail customers take the ESRB rating into consideration when deciding which of our products they will purchase. If the ESRB or a manufacturer determines that a product should have a rating directed to an older or more mature consumer, we may be less successful in our marketing and sales of a particular product. From time to time, legislation has been introduced for the establishment of a government mandated rating and governing system in the U.S. and in foreign countries for our industry. In 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court declared as unconstitutional California's proposed legislation (“Brown v. EMEA/ESA”), which sought to regulate the sale of violent video games to minors. However, outside of the U.S., various foreign countries already allow government censorship of interactive entertainment products. We believe that if our industry were to become subject to a government rating system or other regulation, our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely impacted.Breaches of our security measures, fraudulent transactions, and unintended disclosures of our intellectual property or our customer data could adversely affect our business. We take measures to prevent our source code, and other confidential information, from unauthorized access. A security breach that results in the disclosure of our source code, other confidential assets, or pre-release software could lead to piracy of our software or otherwise compromise our product plans. When we conduct business online directly with consumers, we may be the victim of fraudulent transactions, including credit card fraud, which presents a risk to our revenues and potentially disrupts service to our customers. As we increase our online businesses, we are also collecting and storing an increasing amount of customer data, some of it personally identifiable information including credit card data. It is possible that our security controls over customer data may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. A security breach that leads to disclosure of customer account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. A resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential customers for our online offerings that require the collection of customer data.We have significant net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards ("NOLs"). If we are unable to use our NOLs, our future operating results may be significantly impacted. As of March 31, 2012, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of $584.6 million and federal R&D tax credit carryforwards of $26.1 million. Under applicable tax rules, we may "carry forward" these NOLs in certain circumstances to offset 17Table of Contentsany current and future taxable income and thus reduce our income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. Therefore, we believe that these NOLs could be a substantial asset. However, if we experience an "ownership change," as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to use the NOLs could be substantially limited, which could significantly increase our future income tax liability. On May 12, 2010, we entered into a Section 382 Rights Agreement with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, in an effort to prevent an "ownership change" from occurring and thereby protect the value of the NOLs. There can be no assurance, however, that the Section 382 Rights Plan will prevent an ownership change from occurring or protect the value of the NOLs and there can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize our NOLs. We cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or the impact of the same on our operations and the market price for our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future. The realignment of our business that took place starting in January 2012 could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our internal controls in the future. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely impact our financial results and the market price of our common stock.Catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. Our net sales are derived from sales of our games, which are developed within a relatively small number of studio facilities located throughout the world. If a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage, adversely affected any of these facilities while personnel were finishing development of a game, it could significantly delay the release of the game, which could result in a substantial loss of sales in any given quarter and cause our operating results to differ materially from expectations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.