Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business is subject to many risks and uncertainties that may impact our future financial performance. Some of those important risks and uncertainties that may cause our operating results to vary or may materially and adversely impact our operating results are described below. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. We must continue to develop and sell new titles in order to generate net sales and remain profitable. We derive almost all of our net sales from sales of interactive software games. Even the most successful video games remain popular for only limited periods of time, often less than six months, and thus the success of our business is dependent upon our ability to continually develop and sell successful new games. Because net sales associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total net sales associated with the life of a product, the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse impact on our net sales and profitability. Our business is "hit" driven. If we do not deliver "hit" games, our net sales and profitability can suffer. While many new titles are regularly introduced in our industry, increasingly, only a relatively small number of "hit" titles account for a significant portion of video game sales. If we fail to develop "hit" titles, or if "hit" products published by our competitors take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, our product sales could fall below our expectations, which could negatively impact both our net sales and profitability. We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. A significant portion of our selling and marketing and our general and administrative expense is attributable to expenses for personnel and facilities. In the event of a significant decline in net sales, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. Management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in net sales and profit. Moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. Although we believe our financial condition, including cash expected to be generated from operations, is sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, the development and publishing of video games is capital intensive and our capacity to generate cash from our games may be insufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements. We operate in a capital intensive business. During fiscal 2011, we invested a significant amount of our cash in product development and licenses and thus did not generate positive cash flow from operations in fiscal 2011. As a result, the balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments has decreased from $271.3 million as of March 31, 2010 to $85.6 million as of March 31, 2011. Although we believe that we have sufficient working capital, including cash expected to be generated from future operations, to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, in the event our future net sales and/or required expenditures differ significantly from our expectations, we may need to defer and/or curtail currently-planned expenditures, and/or pursue additional funding to meet our cash needs.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our convertible senior notes. On August 4, 2009, we issued $100.0 million 5% convertible senior notes ("Notes"). The Notes pay interest semiannually, in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year and are due August 15, 2014, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. Our ability to make payments on the Notes will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the interest or principal on the Notes. Failure to appropriately adapt to rapid technological changes or emerging distribution channels may negatively impact our market share and our operating results. Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and services competitive. Currently, our industry is experiencing an increasing shift to online content and digital downloads. We believe that much of the growth in the industry will come via online markets or digital distribution such as massively multi-player games (both subscription and free-to-play), casual Table of Contentsmicro-transaction based games, paid downloadable content and digital downloads of games. Accordingly, we plan to continue integrating a digital component into all of our key franchises. However, if we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, our market share and our operating results may suffer. Our future success in providing online games, wireless games and other content will depend upon our ability to adapt to rapidly-changing technologies, develop applications to accommodate evolving industry standards, and improve the performance and reliability of our applications.Connectivity issues related to digital sales and online gameplay could impact our ability to sell and provide online services for our games, and could impact our profitability.We rely upon various third-party providers, such as PlayStation Network, Microsoft's Xbox Live, Valve's Steam platform, and Facebook, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. Connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely impacted. In addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. Such issues also could impact our ability to provide online services, and could impact our business.Our inability to acquire or create new intellectual property that has a high level of consumer recognition or acceptance could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. We generate a portion of our net sales from wholly-owned intellectual property. The success of our internal brands depends upon our ability to create original ideas that appeal to the core gamer. Titles based on wholly-owned intellectual property can be expensive to develop and market since they do not have a built-in consumer base or licensor support. Our inability to create new products that find consumer acceptance could negatively impact our net sales and profitability.Since a significant portion of our net sales is based upon licensed properties, failure to renew such licenses, or renewals of such licenses on less advantageous terms, could cause our net sales and/or our profitability to decline. Games we develop based upon licensed brands make up a substantial portion of our sales each year. Sales of our games based upon our two top-selling licensed brands, UFC and WWE, excluding the impact of changes in deferred net revenue, comprised approximately 32% of our net sales in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2010, sales of our games based upon our two top-selling licensed brands, UFC and WWE, excluding the impact of changes in deferred net revenue, comprised 35% of our net sales. A limited number of licensed brands may continue to produce a disproportionately large amount of our sales. Due to the importance to us of a limited number of brands and the intense competition from other video game publishers to publish games based upon these licensed brands, we may not be able to renew our current licenses or may have to renew a brand license on less advantageous terms, which could significantly lower our net sales and/or our profitability. During fiscal 2011, we entered into a multi-year extension of our long-term agreement with Games Workshop to publish games based on the Warhammer 40,000 brand which expires on December 31, 2020. Our licenses with UFC and WWE expire on December 31, 2018. There can be no assurance that we will be able to extend such licenses and if we are not able to extend them, our net sales and/or our profitability may decline significantly.A decrease in the popularity of our licensed brands or video games based on those brands could materially impact our net sales and financial position. As previously mentioned, a significant portion of our net sales are derived from products based on popular licensed properties. A decrease in the popularity of the underlying property of our licenses could negatively impact our ability to sell games based on such licenses and could lead to lower net sales, profitability, and/or an impairment of our licenses, which would negatively impact our profitability. High development costs for games which do not perform as anticipated and failure of platforms to achieve significant market penetration could decrease our profitability and result in potential impairments of capitalized software development costs. Video games played on consoles and certain online games (e.g., multi-player online games) are expensive to develop. If the high development costs are not offset by high net sales and other cost efficiencies, our operating margins and profitability will be negatively impacted. Additionally, if our games do not achieve significant market penetration, we may not be able to recover our development costs, which could result in the impairment of capitalized software costs, which would negatively impact our profitability.Table of ContentsVideo game product development schedules are difficult to predict and can be subject to delays. Postponements in shipments can substantially impact our sales and profitability in any given quarter. Our ability to meet product development schedules is impacted by a number of factors, including the creative processes involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically-dispersed development teams required by the complexity of our products, the need to localize certain products for distribution outside of the U.S., the need to refine our products prior to their release, and the time required to manufacture a game once it is submitted to the platform manufacturer. In the past, we have experienced development and manufacturing delays for several of our products. Failure to meet anticipated production schedules may cause a shortfall in our expected sales and profitability and cause our operating results in any given quarter to be materially different from expectations. Delays that prevent release of our products during peak selling seasons or in conjunction with specific events, such as the release of a related movie, could significantly impact the sales of such products and thus our profitability.We rely on external developers for the development of some of our titles. Some of our games are developed by third-party developers. While we own approximately 15% of Yuke's, the developer of our UFC Undisputed and some of our WWE-based games, we do not have direct control over the business, finances and operational practices of these external developers, including Yuke's. A delay or failure to complete the work performed by external developers has and may in the future result in delays in, or cancellations of, product releases. Additionally, the future success of externally-developed titles will depend on our continued ability to maintain relationships and secure agreements on favorable terms with skilled external developers. Our competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers' services for our products, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete for us. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish or maintain such relationships with external developers, and failure to do so could result in a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Defects in our game software could harm our reputation or decrease the market acceptance of our products. Our game software may contain defects. In addition, because we do not manufacture our games for console platforms, we may not discover defects until after our products are in use by retail customers. Any defects in our software could damage our reputation, cause our customers to terminate relationships with us or to initiate product liability suits against us, divert our engineering resources, delay market acceptance of our products, increase our costs or cause our net sales to decline.We are a software company and have limited experience developing hardware products. Our uDraw may experience quality or supply problems or may fail to achieve our sales expectations, which could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. uDraw is our first hardware product. Hardware products can be highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. In addition, we obtain some components of our hardware devices from sole suppliers. If a component delivery from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable or industry shortages occur, we may be unable to obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. Either component shortages or excess or obsolete inventory may increase our cost of sales. uDraw is assembled in China; disruptions in the supply chain may result in console shortages that would affect our net sales and profitability.Our business is dependent upon the success and availability of the video game platforms on which consumers play our games. We derive most of our net sales from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as PS3, Xbox 360, and the Wii and DS. The following factors related to such platforms can adversely impact sales of our video games and our profitability: Popularity of platforms. According to the International Development Group, Inc. ("IDG"), an independent consulting and advisory services company that analyzes the consumer electronics and interactive entertainment industries, in the current platform cycle, the Wii is the best-selling console platform to date. However, recent trends indicate that the PS3 and Xbox360 gained popularity over the twelve months ended March 31, 2011. We expect this trend to continue in fiscal 2012. Since the typical development cycle for a console, handheld, or PC game is from 9 to 36 months, we must make decisions about which games to develop on which platforms based on current expectations of what the consumer preference for the platforms will be when the game is finished. Launching a game on a platform that has declined in popularity, or failure to launch a game on a platform that has grown in popularity, could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. Platform pricing. Platforms can be expensive – in the United States, console pricing ranges from $149.99 for the Wii to Table of Contents$399.99 for the high-end Xbox 360 Kinect and the new Nintendo 3DS is $249.99 The cost of the hardware could impact consumer purchases of such hardware, which could in turn negatively impact sales of our products for these platforms since consumers need a platform in order to play most of our games. Platform shortages. From time to time, the platforms on which our games are played have experienced shortages. Platform shortages generally negatively impact the sales of video games since consumers do not have consoles on which to play the games.Our inability to enter into agreements with the manufacturers to develop, publish and distribute titles on their platforms could seriously impact our operations. We are dependent on the platform manufacturers (Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony) and our non-exclusive licenses with them, both for the right to publish titles for their platforms and for the manufacture of our products for their platforms. Our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new games on a title-by-title basis. As a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these platforms, and our sales from titles for these platforms, may be limited. Should any manufacturer choose not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if any license were terminated, we would be unable to publish additional titles for that manufacturer's platform, which could negatively impact our operating results. Additionally, since each of the manufacturers publishes games for its own platform, and also manufactures products for all of its other licensees, a manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of other publishers in the event of insufficient manufacturing capacity. Unanticipated delays in the delivery of products due to delayed manufacturing could also negatively impact our operating results.We rely on a small number of customers that account for a significant amount of our sales. If these customers reduce their purchases of our products or become unable to pay for them, our business could be harmed. Our largest customers, Best Buy, GameStop, Target and Wal-Mart, in aggregate accounted for approximately 44% of our gross sales in fiscal 2011. A substantial reduction, termination of purchases, or business failure by any of our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on us.We may face difficulty obtaining access to retail shelf space necessary to market and sell our products effectively. Retailers typically have a limited amount of shelf space and promotional resources, and there is intense competition among consumer interactive entertainment software products for high quality retail shelf space and promotional support from retailers. To the extent that the number of products and platforms increases, competition for shelf space may intensify and may require us to increase our marketing expenditures. Retailers with limited shelf space typically devote the most and highest quality shelf space to those products expected to be best sellers. We cannot be certain that our new products will consistently achieve such "best seller" status. Due to increased competition for limited shelf space, retailers and distributors are in an increasingly better position to negotiate favorable terms of sale, including price discounts, price protection, marketing and display fees, and product return policies. Our products constitute a relatively small percentage of most retailers' sales volume. We cannot be certain that retailers will continue to purchase our products or to provide those products with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support on acceptable terms. A prolonged failure in this regard may significantly harm our business and financial results.Increased sales of used video game products could reduce demand for new copies of our games. Large retailers, including one of our largest customers, GameStop, have increased their focus on selling used video games, which provides higher margins for the retailers than sales of new games. This focus reduces demand for new copies of our games. We believe customer retention through compelling online play and downloadable content offers may reduce consumers' propensity to trade in games; however, continued sales of used games, rather than new games, may negatively impact our ability to sell new games and thus lower our net sales in any given quarter.Software pricing and sales allowances may impact our net sales and profitability. Software prices for games sold for play on the PS3 and Xbox 360 are generally higher than prices for games for the Wii, handheld platforms or PC games. Our product mix in any given fiscal quarter or fiscal year may cause our net sales to significantly fluctuate depending on which platforms we release games on in that quarter or year. Additionally, reductions in software pricing on any platform may result in lower net sales, which could materially impact our profitability. In addition, we establish sales allowances based on estimates of future price protection and returns with respect to current Table of Contentsperiod product net sales. While we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price protection, if product sell-through does not perform in line with our current expectations, return rates and price protection could exceed our reserves, and our net sales could be negatively impacted in future periods.Our platform licensors control the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. Certain platform licensors have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) on their platforms. Each licensor's ability to set royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. Increased costs could negatively impact our operating margins. We may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through this distribution channel, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Development of software by platform manufacturers may lead to reduced sales of our products. The platform manufacturers, Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony, each develop software for their own hardware platforms. As a result of their commanding positions in the industry, the platform manufacturers may have better bargaining positions with respect to retail pricing, shelf space and retailer accommodations than do any of their licensees, including us. Additionally, the platform manufacturers can bundle their software with their hardware, creating less demand for individual sales of our products. In the twelve month period ended March 31, 2011, Nintendo's market share in the U.S. was nearly 34% on its Wii platform and more than 37% on its DS platforms. Continued or increased dominance of software sales by the platform manufacturers may lead to reduced sales of our products and thus lower net sales. Increased development of software and online games by intellectual property owners and developers may lead to reduced net sales. Some of our games are based upon licensed intellectual properties. In recent years, licensors and independent developers have increased their development of video games in digital and other online distribution channels, which could lead to such licensors not renewing our licenses to publish games based upon their properties that we currently publish, or not granting future licenses to us to develop games based on their other properties. If intellectual property owners continue expanding internal efforts to develop video games based upon properties that they own rather than renewing our licenses or granting us additional licenses, our net sales could be significantly impacted.Competitive launches may negatively impact the sales of our games. We compete for consumer dollars with several other video game publishers, and consumers must make choices among available games. If we make our games available for sale at the same time as our competitors' games become available, consumers may choose to spend their money on products published by our competitors rather than our products and retailers may choose to give more shelf space to our competitors' products, leaving less space to sell our products. Since the life cycle of a game is short, strong sales of our competitors' games could negatively impact the sales of our games. Competition for licenses may negatively impact our profitability. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition among consumers and licensors of properties, a broader product line, or greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to market their products more effectively or make larger offers or guarantees in connection with the acquisition of licensed properties. As competition for popular properties increases, our cost of acquiring licenses for such properties may increase, which could result in reduced margins and thus negatively impact our profitability. Competition with other forms of home-based entertainment may reduce sales of our products. We also compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. For example, we believe the overall growth in the use of the Internet and online services, including social networking, by consumers may pose a competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their available time using our video games and more of their time using the Internet, including playing social networking games on Facebook, and online services. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in the interactive entertainment software industry and failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could seriously harm our business. To a substantial extent, we rely on the management, marketing, sales, technical and software development skills of a Table of Contentslimited number of employees to formulate and implement our business plan. To a significant extent, our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for employees can be intense and the process of locating key personnel with the right combination of skills is often lengthy. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business.A significant portion of our net sales is derived from our international operations, which may subject us to economic, currency, political, regulatory and other risks. In fiscal 2011, excluding the impact of changes in deferred net revenue, we derived 34.6% of our consolidated net sales, from outside of North America. Our international operations subject us to many risks, including: different consumer preferences; challenges in doing business with foreign entities caused by distance, language and cultural differences; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and possible difficulties collecting foreign accounts receivable. These factors or others could have an adverse impact on our future foreign sales or the profits generated from those sales. There are additional risks inherent in doing business in certain international markets, such as China. For example, foreign exchange controls may prevent us from expatriating cash earned in China, and standard business practices in China may increase our risk of violating U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Additionally, sales generated by our international offices will generally be denominated in the currency of the country in which the sales are made, and may not correlate to the currency in which inventory is purchased, or software is developed. To the extent our foreign sales are not denominated in U.S. dollars, our sales and profits could be materially and adversely impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. Year-over-year changes in foreign currency translation rates had the mathematical effect of increasing our reported net loss by approximately $1.0 million in fiscal 2011.Adverse macroeconomic conditions could result in a prolonged reduction in discretionary spending by consumers that could reduce demand for our products. Our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. As a result, our products may be sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles. Declining consumer confidence, inflation, recession and rising unemployment may lead consumers to delay or reduce purchases of our products. Reduced consumer spending may also require us to incur increased selling and promotional expenses. Additionally, a reduction or shift in domestic or international consumer due to regional macroeconomic spending could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to seasonality in the interactive entertainment software industry and other factors related to our business operations could result in substantial losses to investors. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in sales and operating results. The interactive entertainment software industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically significantly higher during the year-end holiday buying season. Other factors that cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results include: •the timing of our release of new titles as well as the release of our competitors' products;•the popularity of both new titles and titles released in prior periods;•the deferral or subsequent recognition of net sales and costs related to certain of our products which contain online functionality;•the profit margins for titles we sell;•the competition in the industry for retail shelf space;•fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of consumer demand for titles for different platforms; and•the timing of the introduction of new platforms and the accuracy of retailers' forecasts of consumer demand. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. We may not be able to maintain consistent profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. It is likely that in some future quarter, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors as a result of the factors described above and others described throughout this "Risk Factors" section, which may in turn cause the price of our common stock to fall or significantly fluctuate.Table of ContentsOur stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock historically has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us (including those discussed in this "Risk Factors" section, as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material), to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors impacting the entertainment, computer, software, Internet, media or electronics industries, to our ability to successfully integrate any acquisitions we may make, or to national or international economic conditions. In particular, economic downturns may contribute to the public stock markets' experiencing extreme price and trading volume volatility. These broad market fluctuations have and could continue to adversely impact the market price of our common stock.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against piracy, infringement by third parties, or declining legal protection for intellectual property. We defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is difficult. Unauthorized production occurs in the computer software industry generally, and if a significant amount of unauthorized production of our products were to occur, it could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. We hold copyrights on the products, manuals, advertising and other materials owned by us and we maintain certain trademark rights. We regard our titles, including the underlying software, as proprietary and rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, among other methods, to protect our rights. We include with our products a "shrink-wrap" or "click-wrap" license agreement which imposes limitations on use of the software. It is uncertain to what extent these agreements and limitations are enforceable, especially in foreign countries. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and software piracy is a persistent problem, especially in some international markets. Further, the laws of some countries where our products are or may be distributed, either do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., or are poorly enforced. Legal protection of our rights may be ineffective in such countries. We cannot be certain that existing intellectual property laws will provide adequate protection for our products. Software piracy may negatively impact our business. Software piracy is increasing rapidly in the video game industry. The growth in peer-to-peer networks and other channels to download pirated copies of our products, the increasing availability of broadband access to the Internet and the proliferation of technology designed to circumvent the protection measures used with our products all have contributed to an expansion in piracy. While we are taking various steps to protect our intellectual property and prevent illegal downloading of our video games, we may not be successful in preventing or controlling such piracy, which may negatively impact our business.While legal protections exist to combat piracy, preventing and curbing infringement through enforcement of our intellectual property rights may be difficult, costly and time consuming, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Further, the scope of the legal protection of copyright and prohibitions against the circumvention of technological protection measures to protect copyrighted works are often under scrutiny by courts and governing bodies. The repeal or weakening of laws intended to combat piracy, protect intellectual property and prohibit the circumvention of technological protection measures could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect against piracy. These factors could have a negative effect on our growth and profitability in the future. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, from time to time, we receive notices from others claiming we have infringed their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow. Responding to these claims may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, require us to stop selling or to redesign impacted products, or pay damages or satisfy indemnification commitments including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. If we are required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, our operating margins may decline as a result.If one or more of our titles were found to contain objectionable undisclosed content, our business could suffer. Throughout the history of our industry, many video games have been designed to include certain hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. However, in some cases, objectionable undisclosed content or features, which were placed in games without the publishers' knowledge, have been found in interactive entertainment software products. In a few cases, the Table of ContentsEntertainment Software Ratings Board (“ESRB”) has reacted to discoveries of undisclosed content and features in other publisher's products by changing the rating that was originally assigned to the product, requiring the publisher to change the game and/or game packaging and/or fining the publisher. Retailers have on occasion reacted to the discovery of such undisclosed content by removing these games from their shelves, refusing to sell them, and demanding that the publishers accept them as product returns. Likewise, some consumers have reacted to the revelation of undisclosed content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games they have already purchased, refraining from buying other games published by the company whose game contained the objectionable material, and, on at least one occasion, filing a lawsuit against the publisher of the product containing such content. We have implemented preventive measures designed to reduce the possibility of objectionable undisclosed content from appearing in the video games we publish. Nonetheless, these preventive measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. If a video game we publish is found to contain undisclosed content, we could be subject to any of these consequences and our reputation could be harmed, which could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition, and our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Rating systems and future legislation may make it difficult to successfully market and sell our products. Currently, the interactive entertainment software industry is self-regulated and products are rated by the ESRB. Our retail customers take the ESRB rating into consideration when deciding which of our products they will purchase. If the ESRB or a manufacturer determines that a product should have a rating directed to an older or more mature consumer, we may be less successful in our marketing and sales of a particular product. From time to time, legislation has been introduced for the establishment of a government mandated rating and governing system in the U.S. and in foreign countries for our industry. In April 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court granted the state of California's certiorari petition in connection with the constitutionality of California's proposed legislation to regulate the sale of violent video games to minors. Various foreign countries already allow government censorship of interactive entertainment products. We believe that if our industry were to become subject to a government rating system or other regulation (such as the law at issue in the California case), our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely impacted.Breaches of our security measures and unintended disclosures of our intellectual property or our customer data could adversely affect our business. We take measures to prevent our source code, and other confidential information, from unauthorized access. A security breach that results in the disclosure of our source code, other confidential assets, or pre-release software could lead to piracy of our software or otherwise compromise our product plans. When we conduct business online directly with consumers, we may be the victim of fraudulent transactions, including credit card fraud, which presents a risk to our revenues and potentially disrupts service to our customers. As we increase our online businesses, we are also collecting and storing an increasing amount of customer data, some of it personally identifiable information including credit card data. It is possible that our security controls over customer data may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. A security breach that leads to disclosure of customer account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. A resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential customers for our online offerings that require the collection of customer data.We have significant net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards ("NOLs"). If we are unable to use our NOLs, our future profitability may be significantly impacted. As of March 31, 2011, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of $509.2 million and federal R&D tax credit carryforwards of $25.5 million. Under applicable tax rules, we may "carry forward" these NOLs in certain circumstances to offset any current and future taxable income and thus reduce our income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. Therefore, we believe that these NOLs could be a substantial asset. However, if we experience an "ownership change," as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to use the NOLs could be substantially limited, which could significantly increase our future income tax liability. On May 12, 2010, we entered into a Section 382 Rights Agreement with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, in an effort to prevent an "ownership change" from occurring and thereby protect the value of the NOLs. There can be no assurance, however, that the Section 382 Rights Plan will prevent an ownership change from occurring or protect the value of the NOLs. Table of ContentsWe cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or the impact of the same on our operations and the market price for our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely impact our financial results and the market price of our common stock.Catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. Our net sales are derived from sales of our games, which are developed within a relatively small number of studio facilities located throughout the world. If a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage, adversely affected any of these facilities while personnel were finishing development of a game, it could significantly delay the release of the game, which could result in a substantial loss of sales in any given quarter and cause our operating results to differ materially from expectations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.