Risk Factors" section, and the price of our common stock may fall or significantly fluctuate. Video game product development schedules are difficult to predict and can be subject to delays. Postponements in shipments can substantially impact our profitability in any given quarter. Our ability to meet product development schedules is affected by a number of factors, including the creative processes involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically-dispersed development teams required by the complexity of our products, the need to localize certain products for 11 Table of Contents distribution outside of the United States, the need to refine and tune our products prior to their release, and the time required to manufacture a game once it is submitted to the manufacturer. We have in the past experienced development and manufacturing delays for several of our products. Failure to meet anticipated production schedules may cause a shortfall in our expected sales and profitability and cause our operating results in any given quarter to be materially different from expectations. Delays that prevent release of our products during peak selling seasons or in conjunction with specific events, such as the release of a related movie, could significantly affect the sales of such products and thus our financial performance. Video games that are not high quality may not sell according to our forecast, which could materially impact our profitability in any given quarter. Consumers who buy games targeted at the mass market and core gamers prefer high-quality games. If our games are not high quality, consumers may not purchase as many games as we expected, which could materially impact our revenue and profitability in any given quarter. Our business is dependent upon the success and availability of the video game platforms on which consumers play our games. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony's PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PSP, Microsoft's Xbox 360, and Nintendo's Wii and DS. The following factors related to such platforms can adversely affect sales of our video games and our profitability: Popularity of platforms. In the previous console platform cycle, the PlayStation 2 was the best-selling platform and games for the PlayStation 2 dominated software sales. In the current platform cycle, the Wii is the best-selling platform to date, and in 2008, the Wii surpassed the Xbox 360 as the most popular console in terms of software game sales, according to International Development Group. Since the development cycle for a console game is from 9 to 24 months, we must make decisions about which games to develop on which platforms before knowing what the consumer preference for the platforms will be when the game is finished. Launching a game on a platform that has declined, or failure to launch a game on a platform that has grown in popularity could negatively alter our revenues and profitability. Platform pricing. Prices for the current generation of console platforms are higher than for the respective predecessor platforms. The Xbox 360 can cost as much as $399.99, the Wii is priced at $249.99 and the PS3 can cost as much as $499.99. The cost of the hardware could adversely affect their sales, which could negatively affect sales of our products for these platforms since consumers need a platform in order to play our games. Platform shortages. In the past few years, many of the platforms on which our games are played have experienced shortages and some, including the Nintendo Wii, are still difficult for consumers to purchase. Platform shortages generally negatively affect the sales of video games since consumers do not have consoles on which to play the games. Our inability to enter into agreements with the manufacturers to develop, publish and distribute titles on their platforms could seriously impact our operations. We are dependent on the platform manufacturers (Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony) and our non-exclusive licenses with them, both for the right to publish titles for their platforms and for the manufacture of our products for their platforms. Our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new games on a title-by-title basis. As a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these platforms, and our sales from titles for these platforms, may be limited. Should any manufacturer choose not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if any license were 12 Table of Contents terminated, we would be unable to publish additional titles for that manufacturer's platform, which could negatively affect our operating results. Additionally, since each of the manufacturers publishes games for its own platform, and also manufactures products for all of its other licensees, a manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of other publishers in the event of insufficient manufacturing capacity. Unanticipated delays in the delivery of products due to delayed manufacturing could also negatively affect our operating results. Software pricing may affect our revenues and profitability. Software prices for the current generation console games are generally higher than prices for games for the predecessor platforms. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to pay the higher prices of these games. Additionally, although we still publish games for the PlayStation 2 (PS2), as consumers purchase games for current generation consoles rather than for the PS2 and demand for games on the PS2 declines, the prices of our games for the PS2 may also decline. Reductions in pricing may result in lower revenues, which could materially affect our profitability. We compete aggressively with other video game publishers for retail shelf space. Our inability to get our games placed on retailers' shelves could materially impact our revenues and profitability. As video game publishers strive to release more blockbuster titles and as retailers merge or cut back on purchases of video games, competition for retail shelf space may become more intense. Additionally, in recent years, popular peripheral-based video games, such as Guitar Hero, take more shelf space because of the large packaging required for the guitars. Our inability to get our products on retailers' shelves could reduce our revenues and negatively affect our profitability. Lack of retailer support for categories in which we publish games could negatively affect the sales of our products. In fiscal 2009 and 2008, retailers strongly supported games that were music or peripheral-based, such as Guitar Hero and Rock Band, and we did not publish any games in this category. Future lack of retailer support for our key games could cause lower sales of such games, negatively affecting our revenue and profitability. Technology changes rapidly in our business and if we fail to anticipate new technologies or the manner in which people play our games, the quality, timeliness and competitiveness of our products and services will suffer. Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and services competitive in the market. We are investing in emerging video game platforms such as Massively Multiplayer Online Games (MMO's), which require large investments and present many new risks. Globally, MMO games have rapidly become a popular way to play video games. We have no control over the demand for, or success of, these products. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, our market share and our operating results may suffer. Our future success in providing online games, wireless games and other content will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, develop applications to accommodate evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our applications. Competitive launches may negatively affect the sales of our games. We compete for consumer dollars with several other video game publishers and consumers must make choices among available games. If we make our games available for sale at the same time as many other new games become available, consumers may choose to spend their money on products published by our competitors rather than our products and retailers may choose to give more shelf space to our competitors' 13 Table of Contents products, leaving less space to sell our products. Since the life cycle of a game is short, strong sales of our competitors' games could negatively affect the sales of our games. Development of software by hardware manufacturers may lead to reduced sales of our products. Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony each develop software for their own hardware platforms. As a result of their commanding positions in the industry, the hardware manufacturers may have better bargaining positions with respect to retail pricing, shelf space and retailer accommodations than do any of their licensees, including us. Additionally, the manufacturers can bundle their software with their hardware, creating less demand for individual sales of our products. In the past twelve months, Nintendo's market share on the Wii and DS has been over 50% of all software sales for these platforms. Continued or increased dominance of software sales by the hardware manufacturers may lead to reduced sales of our products and thus lower revenues. Increased development of software and online games by intellectual property owners may lead to reduced revenues. As discussed above, a significant portion of our revenue is due to sales of games based upon licensed properties. In recent years, some of our key licensors, including Disney and Viacom, have increased their development of video games, which could lead to such licensors not renewing our licenses to publish games based upon their properties that we currently publish or not granting future licenses to us to develop games based on their other properties. For example, in fiscal 2009, Disney decided to develop internally video games based upon its upcoming movie Toy Story 3 rather than granting the license to develop and publish the game to an external publisher such as us. If intellectual property owners continue expanding internal efforts to develop video games based upon properties that they own rather than renewing our licenses or granting us additional licenses, our revenue could be significantly affected. Competition for licenses may negatively affect our profitability. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition among consumers and licensors of properties, a broader product line, or greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to market their products more effectively or make larger offers or guarantees in connection with the acquisition of licensed properties. As competition for popular properties increases, our cost of acquiring licenses for such properties may increase, resulting in reduced margins. Competition with emerging forms of home-based entertainment may reduce sales of our products. We also compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. For example, we believe the overall growth in the use of the internet and online services by consumers may pose a competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their available time using interactive entertainment software and more using the internet and online services. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in the interactive software entertainment industry and failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could seriously harm our business. We rely to a substantial extent on the management, marketing, sales, technical and software development skills of a limited number of employees to formulate and implement our business plan. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for employees can be intense and the process of locating key personnel with the right combination of skills is often lengthy. The loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents Increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. Increased sales of used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games, could negatively affect our sales of new titles and thus our revenues. We rely on external developers for the development of some of our titles. Some of our titles are developed by third-party developers. We do not have direct control over the business, finances and operational practices of these external developers. A delay or failure to complete the work performed by external developers has and may in the future result in delays in, or cancellations of, product releases. Additionally, the future success of externally-developed titles will depend on our continued ability to maintain relationships and secure agreements on favorable terms with skilled external developers. Our competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers' services for our products, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete for us. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish or maintain such relationships with external developers, and failure to do so could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Defects in our game software could harm our reputation or decrease the market acceptance of our products. Our game software may contain defects. In addition, because we do not manufacture our games for console platforms, we may not discover defects until after our products are in use by retail customers. Any defects in our software could damage our reputation, cause our customers to terminate relationships with us or to initiate product liability suits against us, divert our engineering resources, delay market acceptance of our products, increase our costs or cause our revenue to decline. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against piracy, infringement of our patents by third parties, or declining legal protection for intellectual property. We defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is difficult. Unauthorized production occurs in the computer software industry generally, and if a significant amount of unauthorized production of our products were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We hold copyrights on the products, manuals, advertising and other materials owned by us and we maintain certain trademark rights. We regard our titles, including the underlying software, as proprietary and rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, among other methods, to protect our rights. We include with our products a "shrink-wrap" or "click-wrap" license agreement which imposes limitations on use of the software. It is uncertain to what extent these agreements and limitations are enforceable, especially in foreign countries. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and software piracy is a persistent problem, especially in some international markets. Further, the laws of some countries where our products are or may be distributed either do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or are poorly enforced. Legal protection of our rights may be ineffective in such countries. We cannot be certain that existing intellectual property laws will provide adequate protection for our products. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, from time to time we receive notices from others claiming we have infringed their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow. Responding to these claims may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, require us to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or pay damages or satisfy indemnification commitments 15 Table of Contents including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. If we are required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, our operating margins may decline as a result. We cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or the impact of the same on our operations or the market price for our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal controls over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal controls procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Rating systems and future legislation may make it difficult to successfully market and sell our products. Currently, the interactive software entertainment industry is self-regulated and rated by the Entertainment Software Rating Board ("ESRB"). Our retail customers take the ESRB rating into consideration when deciding which of our products they will purchase. If the ESRB or a manufacturer determines that a product should have a rating directed to an older or more mature consumer, we may be less successful in our marketing and sales of a particular product. From time to time, legislation has been introduced at the local, state and federal levels for the establishment of a government mandated rating and governing system in the United States and in foreign countries for our industry. Various foreign countries already allow government censorship of interactive entertainment products. We believe that if our industry were to become subject to a government rating system or other regulation, our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 