Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties which may affect our future financial performance. Some of those important risks and uncertainties which may cause our operating results to vary or which may materially and adversely affect our operating results are as follows: Risk factors related to console hardware Our business depends on hardware on which consumers play our games. In the past 18 months, Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony each released a new console platform, the Xbox 360, Wii and PlayStation 3 (“PS3”), respectively. These platforms are called “new generation” consoles and succeed the Xbox, GameCube and PlayStation 2 (“PS2”), respectively, which we refer to herein as the “legacy platforms”. The new generation consoles can adversely affect sales of our video games and our profitability as follows: Hardware shortages. Each of the new generation consoles has experienced hardware shortages, which continue for some of the most recently released platforms. Hardware shortages generally negatively affect the sales of video games since consumers do not have consoles on which to play the games. Hardware pricing. The new generation consoles are priced higher than each of the predecessor platforms. The Xbox 360 can cost as much as $479.99, the Wii is priced at $249.99 and the PS3 can cost as much as $599.99. The cost of the hardware could adversely affect their sales, which could negatively affect sales of our products for these platforms since consumers need a platform in order to play our games. Software pricing. Software prices for the new generation console games are higher than prices for games for the predecessor platforms. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to pay the higher prices of these games. Additionally, although we still publish games for the PS2, as consumers purchase games for new generation consoles rather than for the PS2 and demand for games on the PS2 declines, the prices of our games for the PS2 may also decline. Reduced pricing of our PS2 products may result in lower revenues, which could materially affect our profitability. Increasing development costs. The introduction of the new generation platforms has required the development of new software to play on such consoles and new technologies to create such software. Because the new generation consoles have greater complexity and capabilities than the predecessor platforms, costs are higher to develop games for new generation consoles. Greater costs can lead to lower operating margins, negatively affecting our profitability. We must continue to develop and sell new titles in order to remain profitable. Our profitability has directly resulted from our ability to develop and sell successful new titles for use on multiple platforms. Consumer preferences for games are difficult to predict, and even the most successful titles remain popular for only limited periods of time, often less than six months. Competitive launches may negatively affect the sales of our games. We compete for consumer dollars with several other video game publishers and consumers must make choices among available games. If we make our games available for sale at the same time as many other new games become available, consumers may choose to spend their money on products published by our competitors rather than our products and retailers may choose to give more shelf space to our competitors’ products, leaving less space to sell our products. Since, as described above, the life cycle of a game is short, strong sales of our competitors’ games could negatively affect the sales of our games. 10 We rely on a relatively small number of licensed brands for a significant portion of our sales. Games we develop based upon a small number of licensed brands make up a substantial portion of our sales each year. In fiscal 2007, sales of titles for our three top-selling brands, Disney·Pixar, Nickelodeon and World Wrestling Entertainment (“WWE”) comprised 54% of our net sales; in fiscal 2006, 47% of our net sales were based on titles from such brands; and in fiscal 2005, 52% of our net sales were based on titles from such brands. A limited number of licensed brands may continue to produce a disproportionately large amount of our sales. Due to this dependence on a limited number of brands, the failure of one or more products based on these brands to achieve anticipated results or the loss of a license pursuant to which we develop games for such brands may significantly harm our business and financial results. We are currently involved in litigation with the WWE with respect to our video game license. Since WWE titles make up a significant portion of our sales, our inability to retain the license could harm us. See, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed discussion of this litigation. Our inability to acquire or create intellectual property rights which have a high level of consumer recognition or acceptance could harm us. A significant portion of our net sales are derived from products based on popular licensed properties. A decrease in the popularity of the underlying property of our licenses could negatively impact our ability to sell products based on such licenses. We also generate revenue from wholly-owned intellectual property. The success of our internal brands depends on our ability to create original ideas which appeal to the avid gamer. Titles based on wholly-owned intellectual property can be expensive to develop and market since they do not have a built-in consumer base or licensor support. Our inability to create new products targeted at the core gamer could negatively impact our operations. Our inability to enter into agreements with the manufacturers to develop, publish and distribute titles on their platforms could seriously impact our operations. We are dependent on the platform manufacturers (Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony) and our non-exclusive licenses with them, both for the right to publish titles for their platforms and for the manufacture of our products for their platforms. Our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new games on a title-by-title basis. As a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these platforms, and our sales from titles for these platforms, may be limited. Should any manufacturer choose not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if any license was terminated, we would be unable to publish additional titles for that manufacturer’s platform, which could negatively affect our operating results. Additionally, since each of the manufacturers publish games for its own platform, and also manufactures products for all of its other licensees, a manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of other publishers in the event of insufficient manufacturing capacity. Unanticipated delays in the delivery of products due to delayed manufacturing could also negatively affect our operating results. Video game product development schedules are difficult to predict and can be subject to delays. Postponements in shipments can substantially impact our earnings in any given quarter. Our ability to meet product development schedules is affected by a number of factors, including the creative processes involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically dispersed development teams required by the increasing complexity of our products, and the need to refine and tune our products prior to their release. We have in the past experienced development delays for several of our products. Failure to meet anticipated production schedules may cause a shortfall in our expected sales and 11 profitability and cause our operating results in any given quarter to be materially different from expectations. Delays that prevent release of our products during peak selling seasons or in conjunction with specific events, such as the release of a related movie, could adversely affect the sales of such products and thus our financial performance. We rely on external developers for the development of some of our titles. Some of our titles are developed by third-party developers. We have no direct control over the business, finances and operational practices of these external developers. A delay or failure to complete the work performed by external developers may result in delays in, or cancellations of, product releases. Additionally, the future success of externally developed titles will depend on our continued ability to maintain relationships and obtain developer agreements on favorable terms with skilled external developers. Our competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers’ services for our products, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete for us. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish or maintain such relationships with external developers and failure to do so could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We rely on a small number of customers that account for a significant amount of our sales. Our largest single customer, Wal-Mart, accounted for 18% of our gross sales in fiscal 2007, 19% of our gross sales in fiscal 2006 and 14% of our gross sales in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2007, our five largest customers, including Wal-Mart, accounted for 46% of our gross sales. A substantial reduction, termination of purchases, or business failure by any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on us. Increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. Increased sales of used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games, by one of our key customers could negatively affect our sales of new titles and thus our revenues. Competition in the interactive software entertainment industry may lead to reduced sales of our products and reduced market share. Our industry is intensely competitive. We compete for both the sale of games and licenses to properties with the platform manufacturers and other publishers. Such competition could negatively affect sales of our games as follows: Development of software by hardware manufacturers. Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony have each increased development efforts of software for their own hardware platforms. As a result of their commanding positions in the industry, the manufacturers may have better bargaining positions with respect to retail pricing, shelf space and retailer accommodations than do any of their licensees, including us. Additionally, the manufacturers can bundle their software with their hardware, creating less demand for individual sales of our products. Development of software by intellectual property owners. As discussed above, a significant portion of our revenue is due to sales of games based upon licensed properties. In recent years, some of our key licensors, including Disney and Warner Bros., have increased their own development of video games, which could lead to such licensors not renewing our licenses to publish games based upon their properties or not grant future licenses to develop games based upon such properties. If we do not publish such games, our revenue could be significantly affected. Competition for licenses. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition among consumers and licensors of properties, a broader product line, or greater financial, marketing and other resources than we 12 do. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to market their products more effectively or make larger offers or guarantees in connection with the acquisition of licensed properties. As competition for popular properties increases, our cost of acquiring licenses for such properties may increase, resulting in reduced margins. Competition for shelf space. As competitors in our industry strive to release more blockbuster titles and as retailers merge, competition for retail shelf space may become more intense. We may need to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain sales of our titles. Increased expenses without corresponding increased sales could reduce our profit margins and thus have a negative effect on our business and financial results. Competition with emerging forms of home-based entertainment may reduce sales of our products. We also compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. For example, we believe the overall growth in the use of the internet and online services by consumers may pose a competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their available time using interactive entertainment software and more using the internet and online services. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in the interactive software entertainment industry and failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could seriously harm our business. We rely to a substantial extent on the management, marketing, sales, technical and software development skills of a limited number of employees to formulate and implement our business plan. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for employees can be intense and the process of locating key personnel with the right combination of skills is often lengthy. The loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Consolidation in the interactive software entertainment industry presents challenges with respect to resources and integration of acquired businesses. Consistent with our strategy to expand our internal development capabilities and distribution channels, we intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of companies, intellectual property rights and other assets that can be acquired on acceptable terms and which we believe can be operated or exploited profitably. As our industry continues to consolidate, we face significant competition in making acquisitions, which may constrain our ability to complete suitable transactions. Further, as we acquire companies, we are faced with additional challenges. The integration of newly acquired companies’ operations with our existing operations takes management time and effort. Additionally, there is a risk of loss of key employees, customers and vendors of the recently-acquired companies. Emerging technologies, such as games for wireless devices, require investments and present many risks. Wireless network and mobile phone technologies are undergoing rapid innovation. New mobile phones with more advanced processors and supporting advanced programming languages continue to be introduced in the market. We have no control over the demand for, or success of, these products. However, if we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, our market share and our operating results may suffer. Our future success in providing wireless games and other content will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, develop applications to accommodate evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our applications. In addition, the widespread adoption of networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our entertainment applications. 13 The markets for our applications are also characterized by frequent new mobile phone model introductions and shortening mobile phone model life cycles. The development of new, technologically advanced applications to match the advancements in mobile phone technology is a complex process requiring significant research and development expense, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. As the life cycle of mobile phone models and other wireless devices shortens, we will be required to develop and adapt our existing applications and create new applications more quickly. These efforts may not be successful. Any failure or delay in anticipating technological advances or developing and marketing new applications that respond to any significant change in technology or customer demand could limit the available channels for our applications and limit or reduce our sales. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations, which may subject us to economic, political, regulatory and other risks. In fiscal 2007 we derived 42% of our revenues from our international operations, up from 39% in fiscal 2006. We intend to continue expanding our international operations, which may subject us to many risks, including: different consumer preferences, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, and possible difficulties collecting foreign accounts receivable. These factors or others could have an adverse effect on our future foreign sales or the profits generated from these sales. Sales generated by our international offices will generally be denominated in the currency of the country in which the sales are made. To the extent our foreign sales are not denominated in U.S. dollars, our sales and profits could be materially and adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against piracy, infringement of our patents by third parties, or declining legal protection for intellectual property. We defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is difficult. Unauthorized production occurs in the computer software industry generally, and were a significant amount of unauthorized production of our products to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We hold copyrights on the products, manuals, advertising and other materials owned by us and we maintain certain trademark rights. We regard our titles, including the underlying software, as proprietary and rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, among other methods to protect our rights. We include with our products a “shrink-wrap” or “click-wrap” license agreement or limitations on use of the software. It is uncertain to what extent these agreements and limitations are enforceable, especially in foreign countries. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and software piracy is a persistent problem, especially in some international markets. Further, the laws of some countries where our products are or may be distributed either do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or are poorly enforced. Legal protection of our rights may be ineffective in such countries. We cannot be certain that existing intellectual property laws will provide adequate protection for our products. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, from time to time we receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow. Responding to these claims may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, require us to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or to pay damages or to satisfy indemnification commitments with our 14 customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. If we are required to enter into such agreements or take such actions, our operating margins may decline as a result. Defects in our game software could harm our reputation or decrease the market acceptance of our products. Our game software may contain defects. In addition, because we do not manufacture our games for console platforms, we may not discover defects until after our products are in use by retail customers. Any defects in our software could damage our reputation, cause our customers to terminate relationships with us or to initiate product liability suits against us, divert our engineering resources, delay market acceptance of our products, increase our costs or cause our revenue to decline. We cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or the impact of the same on our operations or the market price for our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to audit our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and separately report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal controls over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal controls procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to seasonality in the interactive software entertainment industry and other factors related to our business operations could result in substantial losses to investors. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in sales and operating results. The interactive software entertainment market is highly seasonal, with sales typically significantly higher during the year-end holiday buying season. Other factors that cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results include: · the timing of our release of new titles as well as the release of our competitor’s products; · the popularity of both new titles and titles released in prior periods; · the profit margins for titles we sell; · the competition in the industry for retail shelf space; · fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of consumer demand for titles for different platforms; and · the timing of the introduction of new platforms and the accuracy of retailers’ forecasts of consumer demand. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. We may not be able to maintain consistent profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. It is likely that in some future quarter, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors and as a result of the factors described above and others described throughout this “Risk Factors” section, the price of our common stock may fall or significantly fluctuate. 15 Rating systems and future legislation may make it difficult to successfully market and sell our products. Currently, the interactive software entertainment industry is self-regulated and rated by the Entertainment Software Rating Board (“ESRB”). Our retail customers take the ESRB rating into consideration when deciding which of our products they will purchase. If the ESRB or a manufacturer determines that a product should have a rating directed to an older or more mature consumer, we may be less successful in our marketing and sales of a particular product. From time to time, legislation has been introduced at the local, state and federal levels for the establishment of a government mandated rating and governing system in the United States and in foreign countries for our industry. Various foreign countries already allow government censorship of interactive entertainment products. We believe that if our industry were to become subject to a government rating system, our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. Any significant downturn in general economic conditions which results in a reduction in discretionary spending could reduce demand for our products and harm our business. Our product sales are affected by the retail customer’s ability and desire to spend disposable income on the purchase of our games. Any significant downturn in general economic conditions which results in a reduction in discretionary spending could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could harm our business. Such industry downturns have been, and may continue to be, characterized by diminished product demand and subsequent erosion of average selling prices. Because of these and other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 