Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. Worldwide Economic Conditions As has been widely reported, the financial markets in the U.S., Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region have been in a period of severe disruption over the last year. The turbulence has been most immediately evident in the extreme tightening of credit markets, the resulting loss of liquidity, and historic drops in stock prices. In response, governments around the world have taken unprecedented steps intended to minimize the depth and breadth of the crisis. There are indications that the economic situation may be 8 beginning to improve in 2010, however it is impossible to predict if the improvement will continue and at what rate the improvement will occur. These economic developments in 2008 and 2009 have adversely affected the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations in a number of ways, and they will likely continue to adversely impact the Company until the economic conditions improve. Tightening credit markets could have a material impact on the Company's customers and suppliers and their ability to finance their operations, which could result in a decrease in, or deferral of, orders for the Company's products or an increase in the Company's cost of production. A prolonged economic slowdown, recession, or depression could similarly have a material and adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company experienced a significant decline in the demand for its products during 2009 as a result of the substantial deterioration in economic conditions. Many of the Company's customers chose to delay their purchases of the Company's products. Current indications are that demand for the Company's products will increase in 2010. Customer spending on the Company's products is not discretionary, but the Company is unable to predict the level of growth expected in 2010 as customers increase their spending. Ongoing depressed demand for the Company's products could result in decreased revenues, profitability and cash flows and may impair the Company's ability to maintain operations and fund obligations to others. Avoidance of Credit Default; Dependence on Affiliate Borrowing As a result of the deterioration of its financial condition in early 2009 resulting from the impact of the worldwide economic downturn on its business, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with Danfoss A/S, the Company's majority stockholder, in March 2009, to refinance and avoid default on certain credit agreements in existence at that time and to fund a significant portion of the Company's working capital and other needs. In November 2009 the Company refinanced that agreement with a new agreement with Danfoss A/S which requires repayment in April 2011. In borrowing significant funds from Danfoss A/S, the Company is heavily dependent on Danfoss A/S for the Company's working capital and other funding needs. In light of the Company's anticipated leverage ratios over at least the near term, the Company may not be able to borrow from sources other than Danfoss A/S on reasonable terms. If Danfoss A/S were unable to borrow or otherwise generate sufficient funds to meet the Company's borrowing requirements or were to become unwilling to continue lending to the Company on favorable terms, the Company's business, results of operations, and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets Impairment If the price of the Company's stock were to decline to the point that its market capitalization were lower than its carrying value, the Company may be required to perform interim impairment tests on goodwill or other long-lived assets. There may be other triggering events that indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill or long-lived assets may not be recoverable from future cash flows. If the Company determines that any goodwill or other long-lived asset amounts need to be written down to fair values, this could result in a charge that may be material to the Company's operating results and financial condition. International Operations The Company depends on the strength of the economies in various parts of the world, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. As a result of this worldwide exposure, net revenue and profitability may be harmed as a result of economic conditions in the major markets in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, recessions, inflation and deflation, general weakness in the agriculture, construction and 9 specialty markets, changes in governmental laws and policies, government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions, duties and tariffs, import and export controls, and changes in consumer purchasing power. Technology Change The hydraulic industry and markets for component parts of mobile hydraulics are subject to technological change, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and improvements in and expansion of product offerings. Although the Company believes that it has the technological capabilities to remain competitive, technological advances or developments by competitors or others could result in the Company needing to make significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive and to avoid material adverse effects on its business, financial conditions and results of operations. Common Business System The Company has implemented a common business system at the majority of its locations. Any significant problems incurred related to operation of the system may delay or stop manufacturing and hinder the Company's ability to ship product in a timely manner or affect the Company's ability to access financial information. These problems could result in the loss of customers, a decrease in revenue, or significant costs to correct the problem. Raw Material Availability The Company purchases raw materials and component parts from suppliers to be used in the manufacture of products. Due to the worldwide economic situation many of the raw material suppliers have reduced their output accordingly. In the past year the Company has been able to reduce its inventory levels significantly; this, accordingly, has led to a decrease in its demand for raw materials. In the event of a substantial increase in demand, difficulties in purchasing raw materials and price increases may be experienced. Pricing and Competitive Pressures from OEM Customers A majority of the Company's sales are directly to OEM customers. OEM customers continue to use their positions as volume purchasers in the mobile hydraulics market to obtain preferential pricing and to obtain substantial quality assurance protection from suppliers. Currency Exchange Rates The Company has a number of manufacturing sites throughout the world and sells products in several countries other than those where the product is manufactured. As a result, the Company has exposure to changing exchange rates between the various currencies in its customers' countries and the currencies in which the Company's manufacturing facilities are located. The Company's most significant foreign currency exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Polish zloty, Chinese yuan and Danish kroner. Exchange rate fluctuations between these currencies and against the U.S. dollar or euro could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company enters into forward contracts to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on cash flows related to forecasted sales denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the selling location. Cyclicality: Risks Associated with General Economic Conditions The capital goods industry in general, and mobile hydraulics industry in particular, are subject to economic cycles. Cyclical downturns had a material adverse effect on the demand for the Company's products in 2009, as well as in past years. Future cyclical downturns may negatively impact the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Demand for the Company's products is dependent upon the general condition of the off-highway mobile equipment industry which may be affected by 10 numerous factors, including levels of construction activity, weather conditions, interest rates and access to financing. The Company's results of operations are also subject to price competition and the cost of supplies and labor, both of which are affected by general economic conditions. The Company derives substantial sales from cyclical industries, including the turf care, material handling, construction and agricultural equipment industries. Income Tax Estimates The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company is periodically under audit by tax authorities. Although management believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. If the outcome of a given tax audit or related litigation is materially different from the Company's estimates, the determination could result in material differences between the Company's originally reported income tax provision or net income (loss) and the final reported financial results. Catastrophic Events Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt the Company's operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce demand for hydraulic and electric products and make it difficult or impossible for the Company to manufacture products, deliver products to customers, or to receive products from suppliers. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting the Company or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that are currently believed to be immaterial also may adversely impact the business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 