ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risk factors summarized below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Current global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The global credit and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions in recent months, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The current adverse global economic conditions and tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions, and if the current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Increased competition could hurt our business. The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and marketing campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include the taste and flavor of our products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo Inc., Cadbury Schweppes plc, Red Bull Gmbh, Kraft Foods Inc., Nestle Beverage Company, Tree Top and Ocean Spray. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains, and club stores. Our Java Monster™ line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks competes directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Caribou Coffee, Cinnabon coffee drinks, Godiva dairy based drinks and Full Throttle Coffee. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in maintaining our current revenues or market share or position due to competition in the beverage industry. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 We derive a substantial portion of revenues from our energy drinks and competitive pressure in the “energy drink” category could adversely affect our operating results. A substantial portion of our sales are derived from our energy drinks, including in particular our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. Our DSD segment which comprises primarily energy drinks, represented 90.7% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. Any decrease in the sales of our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks could significantly adversely affect our future revenues and net income. Historically, we have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink category. Our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, Vitaminenergy, 5-Hour Energy Shot, Redline Energy Shot, NOS Energy Shot, Rockstar Energy Shot, Full Throttle Quick Shot, Amp Energy Shot and many other brands. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in different packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass bottles, including Sobe, Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, and Vitamin Water, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits. In addition, certain large companies such as TCCC and PepsiCo Inc., market and/or distribute products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Vault. Competitive pressures in the energy drink category could impact our revenues or we could experience price erosion or lower market share, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results. Change in consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our products. There is increasing awareness and concern for the health consequences of obesity. This may reduce demand for our non-diet beverages, which could affect our profitability. Consumers are seeking greater variety in their beverages. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our continued ability to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages. In order to retain and expand our market share, we must continue to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages and be competitive in the areas of quality and health, although there can be no assurance of our ability to do so. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to purchase our products in the future. Additionally, many of our products are considered premium products and to maintain market share during recessionary periods we may have to reduce profit margins which would adversely affect our results of operations. Product lifecycles for some beverage brands and/or products and/or packages may be limited to a few years before consumers’ preferences change. The beverages we currently market are in varying stages of their lifecycles and there can be no assurance that such beverages will become or remain profitable for us. The beverage industry is subject to changing consumer preferences and shifts in consumer preferences may adversely affect us if we misjudge such preferences. We may be unable to achieve volume growth through product and packaging initiatives. We also may be unable to penetrate new markets. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We rely on bottlers and other contract packers to manufacture our products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottlers and contract packers and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained or unavailable to us, our business could suffer. We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource such manufacturing to bottlers and other contract packers. In the event of a disruption or delay, we may be unable to procure alternative packing facilities at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. In addition, there are limited alternative packing facilities in the United States with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for many of our products, including Hansen’s® brand energy drinks in 8.3-ounce cans, our PET tea line, Hansen’s® Sparkling beverages in 10.5-ounce sleek cans, aseptic juice products, juices in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles, Monster Energy®, Lost® Energy™, Rumba®, Samba, Tango and Joker Mad EnergyTM energy drinks in 8.3-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 24-ounce 19 and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml aluminum cans and/or 500ml glass bottles, our Java MonsterTM line of non-carbonated dairy based coffee drinks in 15-ounce cans, Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTM’s and other products. A disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing facilities in the United States with adequate capacity may not be available for such products either at commercially reasonable rates, and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could adversely affect our revenues. We rely on bottlers and distributors to distribute our DSD products. If we are unable to secure such bottlers and distributors and/or we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing bottlers and distributors, our business could suffer. We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery distributors having established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other soda and non-carbonated brands and other beverage products (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic), including energy drinks. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products. The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our success. If our DSD brands prove to be less attractive to our existing bottlers and distributors and/or if we fail to attract additional bottlers and distributors, and/or our bottlers and/or distributors do not market and promote our products with greater focus in preference to the products of our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The TCCC North American Bottlers and AB Distributors are our primary domestic and international distributors of our Monster Energy® beverages. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with the TCCC North American Bottlers and AB Distributors, or if the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or AB Distributors do not market and promote our products above the products of our competitors, sales of our Monster Energy® beverages could be adversely affected. Our customers are material to our success. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing customers, our business could suffer. Unilateral decisions could be taken by our distributors, convenience chains, grocery chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers to discontinue carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at any time, which could cause our business to suffer. The Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc., a former customer of the DSD division, accounted for approximately 13%, 16% and 19% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our distribution agreement with the Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. was terminated by us effective November 9, 2008. The related terminated distributor territories are now serviced by a combination of the TCCC North American Bottlers and AB Distributors. If the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or AB Distributors are generally not as successful in selling our products as the Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. was, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD and Warehouse divisions, accounted for approximately 11%, 12% and 12% of our net sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. A decision by Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), or any other large customer, to decrease the amount purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. 20 Increases in cost or shortages of raw materials or increases in costs of co-packing could harm our business. The principal raw materials used by us are aluminum cans, glass bottles and PET plastic bottles as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk and cream, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. Overall, the prices of aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, certain juice concentrates and sugar increased in 2008 as compared to 2007. In addition, certain of our co-pack arrangements allow such co-packers to increase their charges based on certain of their own cost increases. We are uncertain whether the prices of any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients will rise in the future and whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our customers. We do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage the risks associated with securing sufficient ingredients or raw materials. In addition, some of these raw materials, such as sucralose and certain sizes of cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers. Sucralose, which is used in many of our products including our low-calorie products, is purchased by us from a single manufacturer. While we believe that our 2009 sucralose volume allocation will be sufficient to meet the demand for our products that contain sucralose, we may need to reformulate certain of those products that contain sucralose with alternative sweetener systems to avoid an interruption in supply of those products, should the need arise. Our failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. We may not correctly estimate demand for our products. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, PET plastic bottles, cans, glass, labels, sucralose, flavors, supplements, certain sweeteners, or packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, supplements and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced. Such shortages could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage this risk. The costs of packaging supplies are subject to price increases from time to time and we may be unable to pass all or some of such increased costs on to our customers. Many of our packaging supplies contracts allow our suppliers to alter the costs they charge us for packaging supplies based on changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce those packaging supplies, such as resin for PET bottles, aluminum for cans, pulp for cartons and/or trays. These changes in the prices we pay for our packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times that vary by product and supplier. In some cases, we fix the prices of certain packaging supplies for a reasonable period. In other cases, we bear the risk of increases in the costs of these packaging supplies, including the underlying costs of the commodities that comprise these packaging supplies. We do not use derivative instruments to manage this risk. If the costs of these packaging supplies increase, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers. If we are unable to source our flavors on acceptable terms from our key suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our business. Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors. Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to 21 us and we may be unable to obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. Industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, supplements and sweeteners have been, and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced. Such shortages could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products. If we have to replace a flavor supplier, we could experience temporary disruptions in our ability to deliver products to our customers which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our intellectual property rights are critical to our success, the loss of such rights could materially adversely affect our business. We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business. We also own the copyright in and to a portion of the content on the packaging of our products. We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success and attempt to protect such property with registered and common law trademarks and copyrights, restrictions on disclosure and other actions to prevent infringement. Product packages, mechanical designs and artwork are important to our success and we take action to protect against imitation of our packaging and trade dress and to protect our trademarks and copyrights as necessary. However, there can be no assurance that other third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we lose some or all of our intellectual property rights, our business may be materially adversely affected. Significant changes in government regulation may hinder sales. The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products is subject to various federal and state regulations, including, but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. New statutes and regulations may also be instituted in the future. If a regulatory authority finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or such products may have to be recalled and/or reformulated and/or packaging changed, thus adversely affecting our financial condition and operations. California law requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. While none of our beverage products are required to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether an important component of any of our products might be added to the California list in the future. We also are unable to predict whether or to what extent a warning under this law would have an impact on costs or sales of our products. If we are unable to maintain brand image or product quality, or if we encounter product recalls, our business may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to maintain and build brand image for our existing products, new products and brand extensions. We have no assurance that our advertising, marketing and promotional programs will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image and on consumer preferences. Product quality issues, real or imagined, or allegations of product contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. We may be required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific co-packers, markets or batches. Product recalls could adversely affect our profitability and our brand image. We do not maintain recall insurance. While we have to date not experienced any credible product liability litigation, there is no assurance that we will not experience such litigation in the future. In the event we were to experience product liability claims or a product recall, our financial condition and business operations could be materially adversely effected. 22 If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, or if our retailers’ inventory levels are too high, our operating results will be adversely affected. If we do not accurately anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to meet our shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If the inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too high, they will not place orders for additional products, which would unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. If we are not able to retain the full-time services of senior management there may be an adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating performance until we find suitable replacements. Our business is dependent, to a large extent, upon the services of our senior management. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any members of our senior management. The loss of services of either Mr. Sacks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Schlosberg, President and Chief Financial Officer, or any other key members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Weather could adversely affect our supply chain and demand for our products. With regard to fruit juice, fruit juice concentrates and natural flavors, the beverage industry is subject to variability of weather conditions, which may result in higher prices and/or the nonavailability of any of such items. Sales of our products may also be influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate, particularly in areas outside of California. Weather conditions may influence consumer demand for certain of our beverages, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Potential changes in accounting practices and/or taxation may adversely affect our financial results. We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on our financial results. New accounting standards could be issued that could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported earnings. Increases in direct and indirect income tax rates could affect after tax income. Equally, increases in indirect taxes (including environmental taxes pertaining to the disposal of beverage containers) could affect our products’ affordability and reduce our sales. Volatility of stock price may restrict sale opportunities. Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including stockholder expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products by us and our competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates and projections by the investment community and public comments by other persons and many other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to achieve analysts’ earnings forecasts, which may be based on projected volumes and sales of many product types and/or new products, certain of which are more profitable than others. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve projected levels or mixes of product sales. As a result, our stock price is subject to significant volatility and stockholders may not be able to sell our stock at attractive prices. 23 During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, our stock price high was $45.63 and stock price low was $20.52. Provisions in our organizational documents and control by insiders may prevent changes in control even if such changes would be beneficial to other stockholders. Our organizational documents may limit changes in control. Furthermore, as of February 6, 2009, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg together may be deemed to control a maximum of 22.1% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg could exercise significant control on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including electing directors, amending organizational documents and disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may be favorable to the other common stockholders. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to fund our long term goals. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital expenditure plans and general operating activities. In addition, the terms and/or availability of our credit facility and/or the activities of our creditors could affect the financing of our future growth. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2008, we had $256.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $118.7 million in short- and long-term investments. We have historically invested these amounts in U.S. Treasury bills, government agencies and municipal securities (which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Certain of our short-term investments and all of our long-term investments are comprised of municipal or educational related or other public body notes with an auction reset feature (“auction rate securities”). The majority of these notes carry an investment grade or better credit rating and are additionally backed by various federal agencies and/or monoline insurance companies. The applicable interest rate is reset at pre-determined intervals, usually every 7 to 35 days. Liquidity for these auction rate securities was typically provided by an auction process which allowed holders to sell their notes at periodic auctions. At December 31, 2008, we held auction rate securities with a face value of $112.5 million. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, we redeemed $8.1 million of auction rate securities at par, which are included in short-term investments in our consolidated financial statements. During the year ended December 31, 2008, a large portion of the auctions for these auction rate securities failed. We determined that there was an impairment of our auction rate securities of $14.9 million, resulting in a fair value of $89.6 million, which is included in long-term investments in our consolidated financial statements. We determined that of the $14.9 million impairment of our auction rate securities, $14.4 million was deemed temporary. This amount has been recorded, net of a tax benefit of $5.7 million, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, we determined that $0.5 million of the impairment was other-than-temporary and recorded a charge to interest and other income, net in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008. There is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will succeed. The auction failures appear to have been attributable to inadequate buyers and/or buying demand and/or the lack of support from financial advisors and sponsors. In the event that there is a failed auction, the indenture governing the security in some cases requires the issuer to pay interest at a 24 default rate that is above market rates for similar instruments. The securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue and/or pay interest at their predetermined default rates and be auctioned every 7 to 35 days until their respective auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities, they mature or we are able to sell the securities to third parties. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited. Consequently, certain of these securities have been classified as long-term investments in our consolidated financial statements. We anticipate that due to the higher interest rates now payable on certain of these securities and for other reasons, certain issuers are likely to take steps to refinance their notes to enable them to call and repay the securities and therefore avoid the higher interest rates now payable on such securities. If the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to refinance their debts and call the notes or successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record additional impairment charges on these investments. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue or there are ratings downgrades on the auction rate securities held by us, we may be required to recognize additional impairments on these investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 40 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. (See “Part II, Item 7A — Qualitative And Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risks” and “Part II, Item 8, Note 3 — Investments” in our consolidated financial statements). If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price and investor confidence in our Company could be materially and adversely affected. We are required to maintain both disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that are effective for the purposes described in “Part II, Item 9A — Controls and Procedures.” If we fail to do so, our business, results of operations, financial condition or the value of our stock could be materially harmed. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. We are a party, from time to time, to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, intellectual property, fraud, unfair business practices and false advertising, breach of contract claims, securities actions and shareholder derivative actions. Material legal proceedings are described more fully in “Part I, Item 3 — Legal Proceedings” and in Part II, Item 8, Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K. Defending these proceedings will result in significant ongoing expenditures and the continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could have a negative effect on our business operations. Our failure to successfully defend or settle any of these litigations or legal proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions, revenue and profitability, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Operations outside the United States expose us to uncertain conditions and other risks in international markets. Our gross sales to customers outside of the United States were approximately 8.2% of consolidated gross sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 and our growth strategy includes expanding our international business. We face and will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, including: economic or political instability in our international markets; restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including 25 possible taxes or withholding obligations on any repatriations; and the imposition of tariffs or trade restrictions. These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to sell our products on a competitive basis in international markets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We have not used instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks and are not protected against foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, our reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time. We must successfully maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we resolved to commence the implementation of the SAP enterprise resource planning system to replace our legacy systems. The implementation is scheduled to be completed in the first quarter of 2010. This implementation subjects us to take on inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of the internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to a new system. The implementation of this system may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. Any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 