Item 1A. Risk Factors.The Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results.Worldwide Economic ConditionsThe Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, so worldwide economic conditions can have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company's performance in 2008 and 2009 was significantly disrupted by the recession and market turmoil that occurred in those years. The global economy, with numerous localized exceptions, saw modest improvements during 2010 and 2011, which helped the Company to achieve better financial and operational results in 2010 and 2011. It remains impossible to forecast, however, whether the worldwide economy will continue to improve during 2012 or may slip back into a recessionary state.Economic indicators are, at best, mixed on both global and regional levels. For example, the U.S. economy saw low levels of growth during 2011 and continues to suffer from high unemployment and depressed housing and construction markets. In addition, recent disruptions in the European credit markets and sovereign debt crises across the Euro-zone could have negative, worldwide consequences. If one of those consequences is a renewed tightening of credit markets, the Company and its suppliers and customers could suffer from a reduced ability to finance their operations, which could lead to a decrease in orders for the Company's products or an increase in its costs of production.Another feature of the recent worldwide recession that had a material impact on the Company's business was the response of central banking authorities and national governments to the economic crisis. Whether or not the global economy continues to show signs of improvement, changes in U.S., European, and other nations' fiscal and monetary policies and laws affecting banking, liquidity, exchange rates, taxes, and governmental spending levels may have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.Avoidance of Credit Default; Dependence on Affiliate BorrowingThe Company has a Credit Agreement with Danfoss A/S, the Company's majority stockholder, under which the Company may borrow up to approximately $300 million. This amount was originally $500 million, however due to the strong cash generation in 2011 the Company voluntarily reduced the available credit on the revolving credit facility. The Credit Agreement consists of a revolving credit facility that matures in September 2013 and two term loans that require repayment in September 2015. Historically, in borrowing funds from Danfoss A/S, the Company is dependent on Danfoss A/S for the Company's working capital 5and other funding needs. If Danfoss A/S were unable to borrow or otherwise generate sufficient funds to meet the Company's borrowing requirements or were to become unwilling to continue lending to the Company on reasonable terms, the Company has the right to seek alternative financing sources. If such alternative funding were not available on reasonable terms, the Company's business, results of operations, and financial position could be adversely affected.Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets ImpairmentIf the price of the Company's stock were to decline to the point that its market capitalization were lower than its carrying value, the Company may be required to perform interim impairment tests on goodwill or other long-lived assets. There may be other triggering events that indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill or long-lived assets may not be recoverable from future cash flows. If the Company determines that any goodwill or other long-lived asset amounts need to be written down to fair values at that time, this could result in a charge that may be material to the Company's operating results and financial condition.International OperationsThe Company depends on the strength of the economies in various parts of the world, particularly in the U.S., Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. As a result of this worldwide exposure, net revenue and profitability may be harmed as a result of economic conditions in the major markets in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, recessions, inflation and deflation, general weakness in the markets we serve, changes in governmental laws and policies, government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions, duties and tariffs, import and export controls, and changes in consumer purchasing power.Technology ChangeThe hydraulic industry and markets for component parts of mobile hydraulics are subject to technological change, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and improvements in and expansion of product offerings. Although the Company believes that it has the technological capabilities to remain competitive, technological advances or developments by competitors or others could result in the Company needing to make significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive and to avoid material adverse effects on its business, financial condition and results of operations.Common Business SystemThe Company has implemented a common business system at substantially all of its locations. Any significant problems incurred related to operation of the system may delay or stop manufacturing and hinder the Company's ability to ship product in a timely manner or affect the Company's ability to access financial information. These problems could result in the loss of customers, a decrease in revenue, or significant costs to correct the problem.Raw Material AvailabilityThe Company purchases raw materials and component parts from suppliers to be used in the manufacture of products. During the worldwide economic recession, many of the Company's raw material suppliers reduced their output. As the worldwide market has improved over the last year, suppliers have increased production. In the event of a short-term substantial increase in demand, the Company may experience price increases and difficulties in purchasing raw materials.Pricing and Competitive Pressures from OEM CustomersA majority of the Company's sales are directly to OEM customers. OEM customers continue to use their positions as volume purchasers in the mobile hydraulics market to obtain preferential pricing and to obtain substantial quality assurance protection from the Company and other suppliers.Currency Exchange RatesThe Company has a number of manufacturing sites throughout the world and sells products in several countries other than those where the product is manufactured. As a result, the Company has exposure to changing exchange rates between the various currencies in its customers' countries and the currencies in which the Company's manufacturing facilities are located. The Company's most significant foreign currency exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Brazilian real, Polish zloty, British pound, Chinese yuan and Danish kroner. Exchange rate fluctuations between these currencies and against the U.S. dollar or euro could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company enters into forward contracts to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on cash flows related to forecasted sales denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the selling location.Cyclicality: Risks Associated with General Economic ConditionsThe capital goods industry in general, and the mobile hydraulics industry in particular, are subject to economic cycles. Cyclical downturns had a material adverse effect on the demand for the Company's products in recent years. Future cyclical downturns may negatively impact the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Demand for the Company's products 6is dependent upon the general condition of the off-highway mobile equipment industry which may be affected by numerous factors, including levels of construction activity, weather conditions, interest rates and access to financing. The Company's results of operations are also subject to price competition and the cost of supplies and labor, both of which are affected by general economic conditions. The Company derives substantial sales from cyclical industries, including the turf care, material handling, construction and agricultural equipment industries.Income Tax EstimatesThe Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company is periodically under audit by tax authorities. Although management believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. If the outcome of a given tax audit or related litigation is materially different from the Company's estimates, the determination could result in material differences between the Company's originally reported income tax provision or net income (loss) and the final reported financial results.Catastrophic EventsUnforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt the Company's operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce demand for hydraulic and electronic products and make it difficult or impossible for the Company to manufacture products, deliver products to customers, or to receive products from suppliers.The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting the Company or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that are currently believed to be immaterial also may adversely impact the Company's business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.7 