Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. International Operations The Company depends on the strength of the economies in various parts of the world, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. As a result of this worldwide exposure, net revenue and profitability may be harmed as a result of economic conditions in the major markets in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, recessions, inflation and deflation, general weakness in the agriculture, construction and specialty markets, and changes in consumer purchasing power. Technology Change The hydraulic industry and markets for component parts of mobile hydraulics are subject to technological change, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and improvements in and expansion of product offerings. Although the Company believes that it has the technological capabilities to remain competitive, technological advances or developments by competitors or others could result in the Company making significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive and to avoid material adverse effects on its business, financial conditions and results of operations. Implementation of New Business System The Company is in the process of implementing a common business system at all locations. Any significant problems incurred related to this system implementation may delay or stop manufacturing and hinder the Company’s ability to ship product in a timely manner or affect the Company’s ability to access financial information. These problems could result in the loss of customers, a decrease in revenue or significant costs to correct the problem. Raw Material Availability The Company purchases raw materials and component parts from suppliers to be used in the manufacture of products. Changes in relationships with suppliers or increases in the costs of purchased raw materials including steel and other metals, and component parts could result in manufacturing 7 interruptions, delays, inefficiencies, or the inability to market products. In addition, profit margins would decrease if prices of purchased raw materials or component parts increase and the Company is unable to pass on those increases to its customers. Pricing and Competitive Pressures from OEM Customers A majority of the Company’s sales are directly to OEM customers. Increasingly, OEM customers are seeking to use their positions as volume purchasers in the mobile hydraulics market to obtain preferential pricing and to obtain substantial quality assurance protection from suppliers. Currency Exchange Rates The Company has a number of manufacturing sites throughout the world and sells products in several countries other than those where the product is manufactured. As a result, the Company has exposure to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar and against the currencies of countries in which the main manufacturing facilities are located. The Company’s most significant foreign currency exposures are the euro, pound sterling and Danish kroner. Exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Cyclicality: Risks Associated with General Economic Conditions The capital goods industry in general and mobile hydraulics industry in particular are subject to economic cycles. Cyclical downturns have in the past had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on the demand for the Company’s products and, consequently, on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Demand for the Company’s products is dependent upon the general condition of the off-highway mobile equipment industry which may be affected by numerous factors, including levels of construction activity, weather conditions and interest rates. The Company’s results of operations are also subject to price competition and the cost of supplies and labor, both of which are affected by general economic conditions. The Company derives substantial sales from cyclical industries, including the turf care, material handling, construction and agricultural equipment industries. Periods of economic recession in the U.S. or Europe or any other major industrial market could cause a substantial decrease in the Company’s net sales and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial conditions and results of operations. Income Tax Estimates The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company is periodically under audit by tax authorities. Although management believes tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the status of a given tax audit or related litigation, a material effect on the Company’s income tax provision or net income may result in the period or periods from initial recognition in the Company’s reported financial results to the final closure of that tax audit or settlement of related litigation when the ultimate tax and related cash flow is known with certainty. Catastrophic Events Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt the Company’s operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce demand for 8 hydraulic and electric products and make it difficult or impossible for the Company to manufacture products, deliver products to customers, or to receive products from suppliers. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting the Company or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risk and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that are currently believed to be immaterial also may adversely impact the business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. 