ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risk factors summarized below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Changes in consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our products. There is increasing awareness of and concern for the health consequences of obesity. This may reduce demand for our non-diet beverages, which could affect our profitability. Consumers are seeking greater variety in their beverages. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our continued ability to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages. In order to retain and expand our market share, we must continue to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages and be competitive in the areas of taste, quality and health, although there can be no assurance of our ability to do so. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to purchase our products in the future. Additionally, many of our products are considered premium products and to maintain market share during recessionary periods we may have to reduce profit margins, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Product lifecycles for some beverage brands and/or products and/or packages may be limited to a few years before consumers’ preferences change. The beverages we currently market are in varying stages of their product lifecycles and there can be no assurance that such beverages will become or remain profitable for us. The beverage industry is subject to changing consumer preferences and shifts in consumer preferences may adversely affect us if we misjudge such preferences. We may be unable to achieve volume growth through product and packaging initiatives. We also may be unable to penetrate new markets. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Significant changes in government regulation may hinder sales. The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are subject to various federal and state regulations, including, but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. New statutes and regulations may also be instituted in the future. If a regulatory authority finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or such products may have to be recalled and/or reformulated and/or have the packaging changed, thus adversely affecting our financial condition and operations. In particular, California law requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. While we do not believe that any of our beverage products are required to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether an important component of any of our products might be added to the California list in the future. We also are unable to predict whether or to what extent a warning under this law would have an impact on costs or sales of our products. Proposals to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or restrict the venues in which energy drinks can be sold, are currently pending before certain state and/or county legislatures. Should these current or any future proposals to enact legislation to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or the venues in which energy drinks can be sold, succeed and/or be enacted by additional states or counties, such legislation could result in a reduction in demand for our energy drinks and adversely affect our results of operations. 20 Public health officials and health advocates are increasingly focused on the public health consequences associated with obesity, especially as the disease affects children, and are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sweetened beverages. Increasing public concern about these issues could result in the implementation of governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling or availability of our beverages. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has recently proposed revising regulations with respect to serving size information and nutrition labeling on food and beverage products. If definitive regulation is promulgated, we may incur significant costs to alter our existing packaging materials to comply with such regulations. Additionally, revised serving size information may impact and/or reduce and/or otherwise affect the purchase and consumption of our products by our consumers. The U.S. Congress and several state legislatures have considered proposals for excise tax on sweetened beverages. The imposition of such taxes on our products would increase the cost of products or, to the extent levied directly on consumers, make our products less affordable, both of which could reduce demand for our beverages and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, the Mexican legislature has recently imposed a 25% excise tax on energy drinks, effective as of January 1, 2011. We have adjusted the caffeine levels in our Monster Energy® products that are sold in Mexico to address this legislation. However, such actions, or actions by retailers to line price energy drinks generally, could decrease consumer demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, if similar taxes are imposed in other jurisdictions where we distribute our products, such taxes could adversely affect our results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our energy drinks and criticism of our energy drink products and/or the energy drink market generally could adversely affect our operating results. Our energy drink products currently generate a substantial portion of our revenues. Criticism of our energy drink products, including criticism by healthcare professionals of the nutritional benefits of our energy drink products and other criticism for a variety of reasons, could affect consumer opinions of our energy drink products and result in decreased demand, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business. The economic downturn and continued uncertainty in the financial markets and other adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. During the past few years, the global credit and financial markets experienced extreme disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The current adverse global economic conditions and tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions, and if the current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 21 Operations outside the United States expose us to uncertain conditions and other risks in international markets. Our gross sales to customers outside of the United States were approximately 16%, 13% and 8% of consolidated gross sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and our growth strategy includes expanding our international business. If we are unable to continue to expand distribution of our products outside the United States, our growth rate could be adversely affected. In many international markets, we have relatively little or no operating experience. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and develop and promote our brands in international markets. Our percentage gross profit margins in many international markets are expected to be less than the comparable percentage gross profit margins obtained in the U.S. We face and will continue to face substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, including: economic or political instability in our international markets; restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States, including possible taxes or withholding obligations on any repatriations; and tariffs or trade restrictions. These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to sell our products on a competitive basis in international markets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences. Global or regional catastrophic events could impact our operations and affect our ability to grow our business. Because of our increasingly global presence, our business could be affected by unstable political conditions, civil unrest, large-scale terrorist acts, especially those directed against the United States or other major industrialized countries where our products are distributed, the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities, major natural disasters or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases. Such events could impact the production and distribution of our products. In addition, such events could disrupt global or regional economic activity, which could affect consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. If we are unable to grow our business internationally as a result of these factors, our growth rate could decline. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We have not used instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks and are not protected against foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, our reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time. Increased competition could hurt our business. The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and marketing campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include the taste and flavor of our products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers such as 22 TCCC, PepsiCo, Red Bull Gmbh, the DPS Group, Kraft Foods Inc., and Nestle Beverage Company. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily national or local in operations such as Tree Top and Ocean Spray. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains, and club stores. Our Java Monster™ product line competes directly with Starbucks Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Seattle’s Best, illy issimo coffee drinks and Full Throttle Coffee. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in maintaining our current revenues or market share or position due to competition in the beverage industry. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of revenues from our energy drinks and competitive pressure in the “energy drink” category could adversely affect our operating results. A substantial portion of our sales are derived from our energy drinks, including in particular our Monster Energy® brand energy drinks. Our DSD segment, which comprises primarily energy drinks, represented 93.0% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010. Any decrease in the sales of our Monster Energy® brand and other energy drinks could significantly adversely affect our future revenues and net income. Historically, we have experienced substantial competition from new entrants in the energy drink category. Domestically, our energy drinks compete directly with Red Bull, Rockstar, Full Throttle, No Fear, Amp, Adrenaline Rush, NOS, Venom, Redline, 180, Red Devil, Rip It, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee, Rockstar Roasted, Full Throttle Coffee, 5-Hour Energy Shot, Stacker 2, Red Bull Energy Shot, Redline Energy Shot, NOS Energy Shot, Rockstar Energy Shot, Full Throttle Quick Shot, Amp Energy Shot and many other brands. A number of companies who market and distribute iced teas and juice cocktails in different packages, such as 16- and 20-ounce glass and plastic bottles, including Sobe, Snapple, Arizona, Fuse, and Vitamin Water, have added supplements to their products with a view to marketing their products as “functional” or energy beverages or as having “functional” benefits. In addition, certain large companies such as TCCC and PepsiCo, market and/or distribute products in that market segment such as Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew MDX and Vault. Internationally, our energy drinks compete with Red Bull, Rockstar, Burn, V-Energy, Lucozade, Relentless and numerous local and private label brands that usually differ from country to country, such as Play, Mother, Hell, Shock, Tiger and a host of other international brands. Competitive pressures in the energy drink category could impact our revenues or we could experience price erosion or lower market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on bottlers and other contract packers to manufacture our products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottlers and contract packers and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained or unavailable to us, our business could suffer. We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource such manufacturing to bottlers and other contract packers. In the event of a disruption or delay, we may be unable to procure alternative packing facilities at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. In addition, there are limited alternative packing facilities in our domestic and international markets with adequate capacity and/or suitable equipment for many of our products, including Hansen’s® brand energy drinks in 8.3-ounce cans, our PET tea line, Hansen’s® Sparkling beverages in 10.5-ounce sleek cans, aseptic juice products, juices in 64-ounce PET plastic bottles, Monster Energy®, Monster Energy® Extra Strength Nitrous TechnologyTM, X-Presso Monster™, Monster Energy® Import and Import Light, Monster Energy® Dub Edition, Monster Rehab™, and Rumba®, Samba, Tango energy drinks in 6.75-ounce and/or 8.3-ounce and/or 9.6-ounce and/or 12-ounce and/or 15.5-ounce and/or 16-ounce and/or 23.5-ounce and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml aluminum cans and/or 18.6-ounce BRE aluminum cans and/or 5-ounce and/or 500ml glass bottles and/or 12-ounce, 15-ounce and 24-ounce aluminum cap-cans, our Java MonsterTM product line in 15-ounce aluminum cans, Worx EnergyTM 23 energy shots, our Peace TeaTM product line in 23-ounce aluminum cans and other products. A disruption or delay in production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues from such products as alternative co-packing facilities in the United States and abroad with adequate capacity may not be available for such products either at commercially reasonable rates, and/or within a reasonably short time period, if at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could adversely affect our revenues. We rely on bottlers and distributors to distribute our DSD products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing bottlers and distributors and/or secure such bottlers and distributors, our business could suffer. We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery distributors having established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other soda, carbonated and non-carbonated brands and other beverage products (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic), including energy drinks. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products. The TCCC North American Bottlers, AB Distributors, New CCE and Coca-Cola Hellenic are our primary domestic and international distributors of our Monster Energy® beverages. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or the AB Distributors and/or New CCE and/or Coca-Cola Hellenic, or if the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or AB Distributors and/or New CCE and/or Coca-Cola Hellenic do not focus on marketing and promoting our products in preference to the products of our competitors, sales of our Monster Energy® beverages could be adversely affected. The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our success. If our DSD brands prove to be less attractive to our existing bottlers and distributors and/or if we fail to attract additional bottlers and distributors, and/or our bottlers and/or distributors do not market and promote our products with greater focus in preference to the products of our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our customers are material to our success. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing customers, our business could suffer. Unilateral decisions could be taken by our distributors, convenience chains, grocery chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers to discontinue carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at any time, which could cause our business to suffer. The DPS Group, a former customer of the DSD segment, accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our distribution agreement with the DPS Group was terminated by us effective November 9, 2008. The related terminated distributor territories are now serviced by a combination of the TCCC North American Bottlers and AB Distributors. If the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or AB Distributors are generally not as successful in selling our products as the DPS Group was, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. CCE (including CCBC up to September 30, 2010) (CCE replaced by New CCE from October 1, 2010), accounted for approximately 28% and 27% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD and Warehouse segments, accounted for less than 10% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and approximately 11% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. A decision by CCR, CCRC, New CCE, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), Coca-Cola Hellenic, or any other large customer to decrease the amount purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. 24 Increases in costs and/or shortages of raw materials and/or ingredients and/or fuel and/or costs of co-packing could harm our business. The principal raw materials used by us are aluminum cans, PET plastic bottles, as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk and cream, the costs of which are subject to fluctuations. In addition, certain of our co-pack arrangements allow such co-packers to increase their charges based on certain of their own cost increases. We are uncertain whether the prices of any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients, certain of which have risen recently, will continue to rise or may rise in the future. We are unsure whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our customers. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage the risks associated with securing sufficient ingredients or raw materials. In addition, some of these raw materials, such as certain sizes of cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers. Our failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. We may not correctly estimate demand for our products. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, PET plastic bottles, cans, glass, labels, sucralose, flavors, supplements, juice concentrates, certain sweeteners, coffee, tea or packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates, supplements and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced. Such shortages could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We generally do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage this risk. The costs of packaging supplies are subject to price increases from time to time and we may be unable to pass all or some of such increased costs on to our customers. Many of our packaging supplies contracts allow our suppliers to alter the costs they charge us for packaging supplies based on changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce those packaging supplies, such as resin for PET plastic bottles, aluminum for cans and pulp and paper for cartons and/or trays. These changes in the prices we pay for our packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times that vary by product and supplier. In some cases, we fix the prices of certain packaging supplies for a reasonable period. In other cases, we bear the risk of increases in the costs of these packaging supplies, including the underlying costs of the commodities that comprise these packaging supplies. We do not use derivative instruments to manage this risk. If the costs of these packaging supplies increase, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers. If we are unable to source our flavors on acceptable terms from our key suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our business. Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors. Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. If we must replace a flavor supplier, we could experience temporary disruptions in our ability to deliver products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 25 Our intellectual property rights are critical to our success, and the loss of such rights could materially adversely affect our business. We own numerous trademarks that are very important to our business. We also own the copyright in and to a portion of the content on the packaging of our products. We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success and attempt to protect such intellectual property with registered and common law trademarks and copyrights, restrictions on disclosure and other actions to prevent infringement. However, there can be no assurance that other third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we lose some or all of our intellectual property rights, our business may be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain brand image or product quality, or if we encounter product recalls, our business may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to build and maintain brand image for our existing products, new products and brand extensions. We have no assurance that our advertising, marketing and promotional programs will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image and on consumer preference and demand. Product quality and/or ingredient content issues, efficacy or lack thereof, real or imagined, or allegations of product contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. We may be required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific co-packers, markets or batches. Product recalls could adversely affect our profitability and our brand image. We do not maintain recall insurance. While we have to date not experienced any credible product liability litigation, there is no assurance that we will not experience such litigation in the future. In the event we were to experience product liability claims or a product recall, our financial condition and business operations could be materially adversely affected. If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, or if our retailers’ inventory levels are too high, our operating results will be adversely affected. If we do not accurately anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to meet our shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If the inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too high, they will not place orders for additional products, which would unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. If we are not able to retain the full-time services of senior management there may be an adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating performance until we find suitable replacements. Our business is dependent, to a large extent, upon the services of our senior management. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any members of our senior management. The loss of services of either Mr. Sacks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Schlosberg, President and Chief Financial Officer, or any other key members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms. 26 Climate change may negatively affect our business. There is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of our products, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions, which may limit availability or increase the cost of certain key ingredients and juice concentrates used in our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain including, without limitation, the availability of and/or result in higher prices for juice concentrates and natural flavors, or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Sales of our products may also be influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Weather conditions may influence consumer demand for certain of our beverages, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Potential changes in accounting practices and/or taxation may adversely affect our financial results. We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on our financial results. New accounting standards could be issued that change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported earnings. Increases in direct and indirect income tax rates could affect after tax income. Equally, increases in indirect taxes (including environmental taxes pertaining to the disposal of beverage containers) could affect our products’ affordability and reduce our sales. Volatility of stock price may restrict sale opportunities. Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including stockholder expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products by us and our competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates and projections by the investment community and public comments by other persons and many other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to achieve analysts’ earnings forecasts, which may be based on their own projected volumes and sales of many product types and/or new products, certain of which are more profitable than others, as well as their own estimates of gross margin and operating expenses. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve projected levels or mixes of product sales and/or revenues and/or gross margins and/or operating profits and/or net income. As a result, our stock price is subject to significant volatility and stockholders may not be able to sell our stock at attractive prices. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, our stock price high was $54.75 and stock price low was $24.01. Provisions in our organizational documents and control by insiders may prevent changes in control even if such changes would be beneficial to other stockholders. Our organizational documents may limit changes in control. Furthermore, as of February 22, 2011, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg together may be deemed to beneficially own approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg could exercise significant control over matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including electing directors, amending organizational documents and disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may be favorable to the other common stockholders. 27 Our cash flow may not be sufficient to fund our long term goals. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital expenditure plans and general operating activities. In addition, the terms and/or availability of our credit facility and/or the activities of our creditors could affect the financing of our future growth. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2010, we had $354.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $288.8 million in short- and long-term investments. We have historically invested these amounts in U.S. Treasury bills, government agencies and municipal securities (which may have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Certain of our short-term investments and all of our long-term investments are comprised of municipal or educational related or other public body notes with an auction reset feature (“auction rate securities”). A large portion of these notes carry an investment grade or better credit rating and are additionally backed by various federal agencies and/or monoline insurance companies. The applicable interest rate is reset at pre-determined intervals, usually every 7 to 35 days. Liquidity for these auction rate securities was typically provided by an auction process which allowed holders to sell their notes at periodic auctions. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the auctions for these auction rate securities failed, and there is no assurance that future auctions will succeed. The auction failures have been attributable to inadequate buyers and/or buying demand and/or the lack of support from financial advisors and sponsors. In the event that there is a failed auction, the indenture governing the security in some cases requires the issuer to pay interest at a default rate that may be above market rates for similar instruments. The securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue and/or pay interest at their pre-determined default rates and be auctioned every 7 to 35 days until their respective auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities, they mature or we are able to sell the securities to third parties. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited. At December 31, 2010, we held auction rate securities with a face value of $79.6 million (amortized cost basis of $70.7 million). A Level 3 valuation was performed on our auction rate securities as of December 31, 2010 resulting in a fair value of $25.4 million for our available-for-sale auction rate securities (after a $7.4 million impairment) and $42.9 million for our trading auction rate securities, which are included in short- and long-term investments. In March 2010, we entered into an agreement (the “ARS Agreement”), related to $54.2 million in par value auction rate securities (“ARS Securities”). Under the ARS Agreement, we have the right, but not the obligation, to sell these ARS Securities including all accrued but unpaid interest (the “Put Option”) as follows: (i) on or after March 22, 2011, up to $13.6 million aggregate par value; and (ii) semi-annual or annual installments thereafter with full sale rights available on or after March 22, 2013. The ARS Securities will continue to accrue interest until redeemed through the Put Option, or as determined by the auction process or the terms outlined in the prospectus of the respective ARS Securities when the auction process fails. During the year ended December 31, 2010, $7.4 million of par value ARS Securities were redeemed at par through normal market channels. 28 If the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to refinance their debts and call the notes or successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional impairment charges on these investments in the future. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue or there are ratings downgrades on the auction rate securities held by us, we may be required to recognize additional impairments on these investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 40 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value (See “Part II, Item 7A – Qualitative And Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risks” and “Part II, Item 8, Notes 2 and 3 in our consolidated financial statements”). If we fail to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price and investor confidence in our Company could be materially and adversely affected. We are required to maintain both disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that are effective for the purposes described in “Part II, Item 9A – Controls and Procedures.” If we fail to do so, our business, results of operations, financial condition or the value of our stock could be materially harmed. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. We are a party, from time to time, to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, intellectual property, fraud, unfair business practices and false advertising, breach of contract claims, securities actions and shareholder derivative actions. Material legal proceedings are described more fully in “Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” and in “Part II, Item 8, Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements” contained in this Form 10-K. Defending these proceedings will result in significant ongoing expenditures and the continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could have a negative effect on our business operations. Our failure to successfully defend or settle any litigation or legal proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenue and profitability, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We must continually maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems. Information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. If our data management systems, including our SAP enterprise resource planning system, do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 29 