Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. Worldwide Economic Conditions As has been widely reported, the financial markets in the U.S., Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region have been in a period of severe disruption in recent months. The turbulence has been most immediately evident in the extreme tightening of credit markets, the resulting loss of liquidity, and historic drops in stock prices. In response, governments around the world have taken unprecedented steps intended to minimize the depth and breadth of the crisis. Despite these efforts, it is impossible to predict the duration or overall severity of the current economic disruption. These economic developments and governmental responses have adversely affected the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations in a number of ways in late 2008, and will likely continue to adversely impact the Company until the economic conditions improve. Continued worldwide financial turmoil could cause the Company's lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under the Company's revolving credit facility. Tightening credit markets could also have a material impact on the Company's customers and suppliers and their ability to finance their operations, which could result in a decrease in, or deferral of, orders for the Company's products or an increase in the Company's cost of production. A prolonged economic slowdown, recession, or depression could similarly have a material and adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. To the extent that global economies experience a significant long-term economic downturn, the Company's revenues could decline to the point that it may have to take additional cost-saving measures to reduce fixed costs to a level that is in line with a lower level of sales and to stay in business long-term in a depressed economic environment. The Company experienced a significant decline in the demand for its 8 products during the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the substantial deterioration in economic conditions. Many of the Company's customers are choosing to delay their purchases of the Company's products. Customer spending on the Company's products is not discretionary, but the Company is unable to predict when an improvement in economic conditions will return to a level where customers will increase their spending. Decreased demand for the Company's products could result in decreased revenues, profitability and cash flows and may impair the Company's ability to maintain operations and fund obligations to others. Credit Default; Dependence on Affiliate Borrowing As a result of rapidly declining sales, significant goodwill impairment charges, the cost of a plant closure, and the cost of workforce reductions, all related to the current worldwide economic downturn, the Company anticipates that it will not maintain compliance with the leverage ratio covenants in the Company's long-term credit agreements when testing is completed after the end of the first quarter of 2009. As described in Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-39 of this report, the Company has entered into a Credit Agreement with Danfoss A/S, the Company's majority stockholder, pursuant to which the Company intends to borrow sufficient funds to refinance certain existing credit agreements to avoid a default. In borrowing significant funds from Danfoss A/S, the Company will become heavily dependent on Danfoss A/S for the Company's working capital and other funding needs. In light of the Company's anticipated leverage ratios over at least the near term, the Company may not be able to borrow from sources other than Danfoss A/S on reasonable terms. If Danfoss A/S were unable to borrow or otherwise generate sufficient funds to meet the Company's borrowing requirements or were to become unwilling to continue lending to the Company on favorable terms, the Company's business, results of operations, and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets Impairment If the price of the Company's stock remains depressed or does not increase to the point that market capitalization exceeds carrying value, the Company may be required to perform interim impairment tests on goodwill or other long-lived assets. There may be other triggering events that also indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from future cash flows. If the Company determines that any goodwill or other long-lived asset amounts need to be written down to fair values, this could result in a charge that may be material to the Company's operating results and financial condition. International Operations The Company depends on the strength of the economies in various parts of the world, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. As a result of this worldwide exposure, net revenue and profitability may be harmed as a result of economic conditions in the major markets in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, recessions, inflation and deflation, general weakness in the agriculture, construction and specialty markets, changes in governmental laws and policies, and changes in consumer purchasing power. Technology Change The hydraulic industry and markets for component parts of mobile hydraulics are subject to technological change, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and improvements in and expansion of product offerings. Although the Company believes that it has the technological capabilities to remain competitive, technological advances or developments by competitors or others could result in the Company needing to make significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive and to avoid material adverse effects on its business, financial conditions and results of operations. 9 Common Business System The Company has implemented a common business system at the majority of its locations. Any significant problems incurred related to operation of the system may delay or stop manufacturing and hinder the Company's ability to ship product in a timely manner or affect the Company's ability to access financial information. These problems could result in the loss of customers, a decrease in revenue or significant costs to correct the problem. Raw Material Availability The Company purchases raw materials and component parts from suppliers to be used in the manufacture of products. Changes in relationships with suppliers or increases in the costs of purchased raw materials including steel and other metals, and component parts could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies, or the inability to market products. In addition, profit margins would decrease if prices of purchased raw materials or component parts increase and the Company is unable to pass on those increases to its customers. At the moment the market is highly competitive and prices are dropping to the levels experienced in 2007. This has to do with the worldwide economic situation and the lack of demand for raw materials, especially from the automotive producers. It is expected that the raw material suppliers will reduce their output accordingly. Pricing and Competitive Pressures from OEM Customers A majority of the Company's sales are directly to OEM customers. OEM customers continue to use their positions as volume purchasers in the mobile hydraulics market to obtain preferential pricing and to obtain substantial quality assurance protection from suppliers. Currency Exchange Rates The Company has a number of manufacturing sites throughout the world and sells products in several countries other than those where the product is manufactured. As a result, the Company has exposure to changing exchange rates between the various currencies in its customers' countries and the currencies in which the Company's manufacturing facilities are located. The Company's most significant foreign currency exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Polish zloty, Chinese yuan and Danish kroner. Exchange rate fluctuations between these currencies and against the U.S. dollar or euro could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company enters into forward contracts to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on cash flows related to forecasted sales denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the selling location. Cyclicality: Risks Associated with General Economic Conditions The capital goods industry in general and mobile hydraulics industry in particular are subject to economic cycles. Cyclical downturns have in the past had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on the demand for the Company's products and, consequently, on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Demand for the Company's products is dependent upon the general condition of the off-highway mobile equipment industry which may be affected by numerous factors, including levels of construction activity, weather conditions, interest rates and access to financing. The Company's results of operations are also subject to price competition and the cost of supplies and labor, both of which are affected by general economic conditions. The Company derives substantial sales from cyclical industries, including the turf care, material handling, construction and agricultural equipment industries. Periods of economic recession currently being experienced globally will likely cause a substantial decrease in the Company's net sales and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Income Tax Estimates The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company is periodically under audit by tax authorities. Although management believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. If the outcome of a given tax audit or related litigation is materially different from the Company's estimates, the determination could result in material differences between the Company's originally reported income tax provision or net income and the final reported financial results. Catastrophic Events Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt the Company's operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce demand for hydraulic and electric products and make it difficult or impossible for the Company to manufacture products, deliver products to customers, or to receive products from suppliers. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting the Company or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that are currently believed to be immaterial also may adversely impact the business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. 