Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are immaterial, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our shares could decline, and shareholders may lose all or a substantial part of their investment. Risks related to our industry Public and private sector health care organizations continue to exert substantial cost containment pressures that could adversely impact our prices and our profitability. In recent years, widespread efforts have been made in both the public and private sectors to control health care costs, including the prices of products sold by us. Such efforts may have a material adverse effect on the pricing of, and the demand for, our products. Health care organizations are evaluating approaches to reduce costs by decreasing the frequency with which a treatment, device or product is used. Cost containment has also caused the decision-making function with respect to purchasing to shift in many cases from the physician to the administrator at the health care institution, resulting in an increased emphasis on reduced price, as opposed to product features and clinical benefits. Efforts by U.S. governmental and private payors to contain costs will likely continue, and we expect that international health care markets will follow a similar trend toward cost containment. The time and expense needed to obtain regulatory approval and respond to changes in regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and services and generate revenue therefrom. We are subject to extensive worldwide regulation with respect to product clearance and enforcement activities. This causes us to experience long approval cycles, uncertainty with respect to the timing of the introduction of new or modified products, risk with respect to approvals and substantial expenses. Our products are subject to extensive regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration, commonly known as the FDA, and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies. Additionally, some of the services we provide in our sleep disorder segment are subject to additional regulation from various local regulatory agencies. The FDA regulates the pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution and promotion of medical devices. It can take several years to receive the appropriate clearances from the FDA and we cannot assure you that we will always obtain such clearances. If we decide to develop any products that are categorized by the FDA as Class III medical devices, the time, effort and expense required to obtain the necessary clearances will increase significantly. In addition, the products that we manufacture or distribute pursuant to FDA clearances are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the government to grant pre-market clearance for devices, withdrawal of marketing clearances and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to require us to repair, replace or refund the cost of any device that we manufacture or distribute. International sales of medical devices are subject to foreign government regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA, and the requirements may differ significantly. Non-compliance with foreign regulations may carry the same or increased risks, liabilities and exposures as non-compliance with FDA requirements. Foreign regulatory authorities also have the authority to require us to repair, replace or refund the cost of any device that we manufacture or distribute. 20 Certain of our business activities require that we collect and/or use information about individuals and their medical conditions. As a result, we are subject to complex regulations by both United States and foreign authorities intended to protect the privacy of those individuals by requiring that we maintain the confidentiality of their information. Implementation and compliance with these regulations are costly. Even after receiving FDA and foreign regulatory clearance or approval, our products may be subject to product recalls, which may harm us. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to make a mandatory recall or order the removal from the market of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design, manufacture, or labeling of devices. Any recall of our products may materially adversely affect our profitability, divert managerial resources and harm our reputation. We may lose significant customers as a result of substantial consolidation within the health care industry. Over the past several years, the health care industry, including many of our customers, has undergone significant consolidation, and we expect this trend to continue. We are subject to risks and uncertainties that result from mergers and acquisitions involving our customers. If, as a result of such mergers or combinations, our customers lose control of the purchasing function, decide to use one of our competitors or reduce their orders for our products, our revenues may be materially adversely affected. Government and private insurance plans may not reimburse our customers for our products, which could result in reductions in sales or selling prices for our products. The cost of medical care in the United States and many other countries is funded substantially by government and private insurance programs. If such funding becomes limited or unavailable to our customers, our business may be adversely affected. Although we do not generally receive payment for our products or services directly from these payors other than for our sleep diagnostic services, our continued success is dependent upon the ability of patients or our customers to obtain adequate reimbursement for our products and services. In most major markets, our products are purchased primarily by hospitals which in turn bill third-party payors or bill patients directly who then seek reimbursement from third-party payors. In the United States, third-party payors include Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance providers. These payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device has not received appropriate FDA clearance, is not used in accordance with approved indications, or is experimental, unnecessary or deemed to be inappropriate treatment for the patient. Third-party payors are also increasingly challenging prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot assure you that our products will be considered cost-effective by third-party payors, that reimbursement will be available, or that payors’ reimbursement policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis, if at all. Health care reimbursement systems vary from country to country and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that third-party reimbursement available under one system will be available for procedures utilizing our products under any other reimbursement system. Lack of, or inadequate reimbursement by, government and other third-party payors for our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Health care reform proposals are gaining substantial support in the United States Congress and state legislatures and could impact the profitability of our business. The United States health care industry is subject to several reform proposals, including more stringent regulations. It is uncertain whether and when such proposals would become legal requirements affecting our business, but we cannot assure you that any such changes will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws 21 may have a dramatic effect on the costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement our customers receive from both government and third-party payors. Federal, state and local government representatives will, in all likelihood, continue to review and assess alternative regulations and payment methodologies. We incur expenses to comply with environmental health and safety laws and regulations. We are subject to numerous environmental health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use and disposal of hazardous materials. We incur expenses to comply with such laws and regulations and any violation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our business The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and we compete against substantially larger companies. Competition among medical device companies is intense. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or future competitors, we may be prevented from retaining our existing customers or from attracting new customers, which could materially impair our business. There are a number of companies that currently offer, or are in the process of developing, products that compete with products that we offer. We cannot assure you that some of these competitors will not succeed in developing products that are more effective and/or less expensive than those currently used or produced by us or that would render some products offered by us obsolete or non-competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have and may be in a better position than we are to withstand the adverse effects on gross margins and profitability caused by price decreases prevalent in this competitive environment. The presence of group purchasing organizations may affect our competitive position, our pricing and ultimately our profits. Our ability to sell our products to hospitals depends on our relationships with group purchasing organizations. In fiscal 2006, sales of our anesthesia and respiratory/critical care products related to our group purchasing arrangements amounted to $32.0 million, representing 33.2% of our net revenue from United States hospital sales. In 2007, our contracts with several of the group purchasing organizations with which we have relationships will terminate unless the parties mutually agree to renew them. In fiscal 2006, we had net revenues of $5.3 million under the contracts subject to termination or renewal in fiscal 2007. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these contracts at the current or substantially similar terms. If we are unable to keep our relationships and develop new relationships with group purchasing organizations, our competitive position would likely suffer. In addition, some group purchasing organizations have tested the use of new internet bidding procedures in order to maximize their abilities to negotiate lower prices with suppliers. Movement to these bidding modalities has been implemented by some organizations and has resulted in lower pricing in some instances. We cannot assure you that continued movement to these bidding modalities will not increase. This may result in lower pricing or failure to secure contracts with these organizations. We could lose customers and our business could be adversely affected if our competitors implement new technologies before we do. The market for our products is characterized by frequent product improvements and evolving technology. Our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by technological change. To compete effectively, we must anticipate and adapt to technological changes and offer, on a timely basis, competitively priced products with new and improved features that meet evolving industry standards and customer preferences. We may choose to develop or invest in new technologies that prove to be ineffective, do not gain market acceptance or are incompatible with technologies of our 22 customers. As new technologies develop, we may be forced to implement these new technologies at a substantial cost to us in order to remain competitive. In addition, competitors may implement new technologies which allow them to offer lower-priced and/or superior quality products which may render our products obsolete or uncompetitive. We are dependent on a single supplier for one of our key products. Since 1980, we have purchased our anesthesia face masks from a single source, Respironics, Inc., which maintains a site in the People’s Republic of China at which it manufactures face masks for our anesthesia segment. If we are unable to obtain our anesthesia face masks from Respironics or an alternate supplier, our business and revenue would be significantly and adversely affected. Sales of our anesthesia face masks, and products and systems which include our anesthesia face masks, such as our general anesthesia systems and breathing circuits, represented approximately 15.7% of our net revenue during our fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Our current exclusive supply agreement with Respironics extends through June 2012, unless either party provides notice of termination prior to January 1, 2007. We expect that we and/or Respironics may seek to negotiate modifications in our agreement prior to January 1, 2007. If the supply of our anesthesia face masks from Respironics is interrupted or ceases for any reason, we would experience significant disruption in our business. Although we believe that there may be one or more alternate suppliers that could supply us with face masks if our relationship with Respironics were interrupted or ceased for any reason, we have not as yet qualified any other supplier or made any determination as to whether any alternate supplier would have the capacity to manufacture anesthesia face masks in the quantities we require. Pursuant to our agreement with Respironics, we are precluded from purchasing anesthesia face masks from other sources unless Respironics is unable to supply face masks in accordance with the agreement. In the event of such an interruption or termination of our supply agreement, we may not be able to obtain anesthesia face masks in a sufficient quantity or at a cost-effective price, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for key components of some of our products and delivery delays or the loss of vendors could adversely affect our business. We rely on vendors to supply the key components of some of our products. During fiscal 2005, a component vendor advised our Breas subsidiary that it was unable to deliver a sufficient quantity of a key component at our required specifications. As a result, Breas was unable to bring a new sleep disorder and personal ventilation product line to market in a timely manner. Since we had pre- announced the availability of that product line, orders for pre-existing products were reduced substantially and the unavailability of the new products negatively affected Breas’ 2005 revenues. We cannot assure you that we will not experience similar delays from this or other vendors of key components in the future. In the event we are unable to obtain components for any of our products, or are unable to obtain components on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to manufacture or distribute our products on a timely and competitive basis, or at all. If we experience any delays in component availability, the cost incurred in switching business to alternate suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel required to lead our company and to enable us to grow our activities, our business would likely suffer. Our success is dependent on key personnel, including Terry D. Wall, our president and chief executive officer. Mr. Wall is 65 years of age and has recommended to our Board of Directors that it plan on naming a successor chief executive officer by December 2009. Mr. Wall has no intention of discontinuing active involvement in our company either before or after his successor has been named, but believes that his specific role beyond 2009 will have to be assessed as that time period approaches. Once Mr. Wall’s successor has assumed the position of chief executive officer, Mr. Wall’s active involvement may consist of leading special projects that take advantage of Mr. Wall’s substantial experience in identifying new products for future sale by our company. 23 Barry Wicker, formerly our executive vice president and chief operating officer, retired at the beginning of the 2007 fiscal year, although he has confirmed his desire is to remain as a member of our Board of Directors and to provide ongoing counsel to us. We have no employment agreement with Mr. Wall or any other executive officer. If Mr. Wall were to cease working for our company prior to the time that we transition to a new chief executive officer, or if we are unable to identify a viable successor to Mr. Wall, or if Mr. Wicker were unavailable to provide advice to us, our business may suffer. To successfully expand our operations, we will need to attract and retain additional, highly skilled individuals, particularly in the areas of sales, marketing, manufacturing and finance. If we cannot attract sufficient skilled individuals, we may not be able to successfully grow our business and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our success depends upon the development of new products and product enhancements, which entails considerable time and expense. We place a high priority on the development of new products to add to our product portfolio and on the development of enhancements to our existing products. Product development involves substantial expense and we cannot be certain that a completed product will generate sufficient revenue for our business to justify the resources that we devote to research and development related to such product. The time and expense required to develop new products and product enhancements is difficult to predict and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in developing, introducing and marketing new products and product enhancements. Our inability to successfully develop and introduce new or enhanced products on a timely basis or at all, or to achieve market acceptance of such products, could materially impair our business. Price changes in the raw materials we use could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The principal raw material used to produce our products is plastic resin, a petro-chemical compound. We have elected to purchase plastic resin under short term contracts rather than entering into long-term contracts or commodity futures or derivative instrument transactions. We are, therefore, subject to fluctuations in the price of plastic resin that may result from changes in the price of petroleum-based products generally, increases or decreases in demand during a given period, or for other reasons. As a result of price competition, we may be unable to pass on to customers the higher manufacturing costs we would incur if there were a significant increase in the price of plastic resin or other raw materials, which would negatively impact our profit margins and our results of operations. If we are unable to identify, complete and integrate future acquisitions, our business may suffer. We have supplemented internal growth with product, technology and business acquisitions in the past, and intend to do so in the future. Our acquisition strategy is subject to inherent risks, including the following: • viable acquisition candidates may not be available to us on price and other terms that are satisfactory to us; • we may be unable to integrate acquired companies effectively into our business; • we may be unsuccessful in commercializing products that we manufacture pursuant to acquired or licensed patents; • acquired companies may require more capital resources and/or management attention than we anticipate at the time of acquisition; • we may have limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries that we enter; • we may be unable to retain the key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these businesses; 24 • we may suffer adverse customer reaction to the business combination; • our due diligence may fail to identify liabilities and exposures which, once discovered, materially adversely affect our ability to operate the newly acquired business profitably; and • management focus on our existing businesses may be diverted. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize acquisition expenses and acquired assets. We are subject to legal proceedings which, if determined adversely to us, could materially and adversely impact us. We are engaged in certain legal proceedings. In one instance, former shareholders of Vital Pharma, a subsidiary currently classified as a discontinued operation, had been seeking damages of approximately $14 million relating to the sale of that subsidiary to us in January 1996. The Vital Pharma shareholders’ claims, which are contractual in nature and thus not subject to any insurance policy that we maintain, were presented to an arbitrator for determination. While we believed that we had meritorious defenses, in August 2006 the arbitrator found in favor of the plaintiffs and gave them an award of $915,000, or approximately $300,000 more than we initially reserved. We have sought judicial relief to set that award aside. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in that regard; or in the event that we are successful that a subsequent arbitrator will find in our favor. We cannot be certain that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to protect us against significant exposure to product liability risks. We are exposed to potential product liability resulting from the use of our products. We presently maintain product liability insurance coverage of $20.0 million in the aggregate. Our product liability policy generally protects us against claims of bodily injury or property damage arising out of any products manufactured, sold or distributed by us. If a judgment in a product liability suit were entered against us or we entered into a settlement agreement in excess of a policy limit or outside the scope of coverage, including for example, punitive damages, our profitability and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our current level of insurance will be sufficient to cover product liability claims or that such coverage will remain available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. We manufacture and sell a significant portion of our products in markets outside the United States, subjecting us to various risks relating to international activities. International sales accounted for approximately 23.5% of our net revenue during fiscal 2006. Such sales are subject to several risks that are separate and distinct from those we face in our United States operations, including: • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • foreign customers who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights; • currency losses that may arise as a result of the fact that not all of our sales are denominated in United States dollars; • compliance with foreign medical device manufacturing and sales regulations in the countries in which we sell and/or manufacture our products; • changes in trade policies and in domestic and foreign tax policies in the countries in which we sell and/or manufacture our products; • possible changes in export or import restrictions in the countries in which we sell and/or manufacture our products; 25 • the modification or introduction of other governmental policies or regulations in the countries in which we sell and/or manufacture our products; and • political uncertainties in countries in which we sell and/or manufacture our products, in particular in the People’s Republic of China, where our supplier of anesthesia face masks is located. Any such factor may affect our international operations and our potential for growth in markets outside of the United States and may have a significant adverse effect on the sales of our products and our profitability. If we are unable to maintain relationships with distributors, our business may be adversely affected. Certain hospitals require us to sell products to them through distributors. For fiscal 2006, approximately 27% of our net revenue was distributed through Cardinal Health Corporation, McKesson- General Medical Corp. and Owens & Minor, Inc. If our relationships with these distributors were damaged and we were unable to develop relationships with other distributors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain new patents or protect our existing patents, which could enable third-parties to use our technology. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies and manufacturing processes, which includes the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents on our technology and products. If we are unable to obtain new patents and protect our existing patents, our competitive position may suffer. We own or have licensed patents that cover several aspects of our anesthesia, respiratory/critical care and sleep disorder segments. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable. Competitors may develop products similar to ours which our patents do not cover. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. Further, there is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. Additionally, many of our products are not protected by patents, but rather are distinguished by product features that others may seek to copy. Our competitive position is dependent in part upon unpatented trade secrets which we may not be able to protect. Our competitive position is also dependent upon unpatented trade secrets. Trade secrets are difficult to protect and we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If other companies are successful in copying our trade secrets and developing products similar to ours, we may lose our competitive position and our revenue may be significantly impacted. We seek to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with select employees. We cannot assure you, however, that: • these agreements will not be breached; • we will have adequate remedies for any breach; or • trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by our competitors. We hold licenses with third parties that are necessary to produce some of our products. The loss of such licenses would prevent us from manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, which could harm our business. 26 Our success is dependent in part on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We have been sued in the past, and may in the future be sued again, for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we may find it necessary, if threatened, to initiate a lawsuit seeking a declaration from a court that we do not infringe the proprietary rights of others or that others’ rights are invalid or unenforceable. Even if we prevail in such litigation, infringement proceedings can be very expensive and time-consuming. If we do not prevail in an infringement litigation, we may be required to pay damages and expenses, and we would be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive, and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may decide not to introduce a product in the United States or a foreign country based on potential risk of patent infringement litigation. Government regulation restricts the manner in which we may sell our obstructive sleep apnea products to customers of our sleep centers and the manner in which we relate to referring physicians. We operate sleep centers and laboratories in the United States that diagnose obstructive sleep apnea and other sleep disorders. Our ability to sell our Breas products in our sleep centers and laboratories is restricted by strict regulations which prohibit us from diverging from a physician’s prescription. If a physician prescribes a continuous positive airway pressure, or CPAP, product other than a Breas product for a patient at one of our sleep centers and laboratories, we are generally prohibited by federal regulations from substituting a Breas product. Federal anti-kickback and anti- referral regulations strictly limit the extent to which we may provide anything of value to physicians who refer Medicare or Medicaid patients to our sleep centers and laboratories. Any failure by us to comply with these regulations may result in significant regulatory actions, including criminal prosecution and large fines, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to support our continued growth, our business may suffer. As we grow, the complexity of our operations increases, placing greater demands on our management. Our ability to manage our growth effectively depends in part upon our ability to implement and improve our financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to effect other changes in our business. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business could suffer. Unexpected difficulties during expansion, the failure to attract and retain qualified employees, the failure to successfully replace or upgrade our management information systems, the failure to manage costs or our inability to respond effectively to growth opportunity or plan for future expansion could cause our growth to slow down or could require us to reduce our size. A significant shift in technologies or methods used in the treatment of sleep apnea could make our sleep centers and products obsolete or less attractive. The development of new technologies or methods could reduce demand for our sleep centers and laboratories and our sleep disorder products. For example, pharmaceutical advances could result in different methods of treating sleep apnea and a reduced need for our CPAP therapy products. The emergence of a low-invasive cost effective surgery to treat sleep apnea could also diminish demand for our sleep products and our sleep centers and laboratories. 27 If a natural or man-made disaster strikes one or more of our manufacturing facilities, we may be unable to manufacture certain products for a substantial amount of time and our revenue could decline. We have four manufacturing facilities located in the United States and one manufacturing facility located in Sweden. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment and personnel know-how that we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. In the event that one of our facilities was affected by a disaster, we would be forced to attempt to shift production to our other manufacturing facilities or rely on third-party manufacturers, and our other facilities or a third-party manufacturer may not have the capability to effectively supply the affected products. Although we have insurance for damage to our property and the interruption of our business, this insurance may not be sufficient in scope or amount to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Requirements associated with the evaluation of internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have required and will require significant company resources and management attention. Although we believe that we are currently in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may in the future identify material deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate on a timely basis. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we could be subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or the NASDAQ National Market, and the trading price of our stock could decline. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping us to prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Risks related to purchasing our common stock Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation which may impact the price of our stock. Our operating results have, from time to time, fluctuated on a quarterly basis and may be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. These fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • actions taken by group purchasing organizations; • timing of orders by our customers; • the mix of our product sales; • competitive pricing in different regions in which we sell our products; • timing and cost of regulatory clearances and approvals of our products; • the cost, effect and success of our promotional and marketing programs; • the effect of the flu season on our respiratory/critical care business; • loss of any of our key management or technical personnel; • product liability lawsuits against us; • changes in health care policy in the United States and internationally; • conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the medical device industry generally, or lack of analyst coverage of our common stock; 28 • changes in accounting principles; • expenditures incurred by us for research and development; and • expenditures incurred by us to comply with enhanced regulatory obligations and internal control requirements. Any of these factors may cause the price for our common stock to fluctuate and therefore decrease the value of any investment in our company. A substantial portion of our assets includes goodwill and an impairment in the value of our goodwill would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. As of September 30, 2006, goodwill represented 25.9% of our total assets. If we are required to record an impairment charge to earnings relating to goodwill, it will have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. Goodwill represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. The accounting standards on goodwill and other intangible assets, which we adopted as of October 1, 2001, require goodwill to be reviewed at least annually for impairment, and does not permit amortization. In the event that impairment is identified, a charge to earnings will be recorded and our stock price may decline as a result. A large percentage of our outstanding common stock is held by insiders, and, as a result, the trading market for our common stock is less liquid and our stock price can be volatile. As of December 1, 2006, we had 13,218,850 shares of common stock outstanding. Approximately 16.6% of such shares are beneficially owned by Terry D. Wall, our chief executive officer, and his wife and an additional 11.9% of such shares are beneficially owned by trusts established for the benefit of the Walls’ children and an additional 9.7% of such shares are beneficially owned by an estate planning trust established by Terry D. Wall. Such trusts are administered by trustees who have no current or prior relationship with Vital Signs. Companies like ours, with a relatively small percentage of shares held by the public, can be subject to a more volatile stock price. Our stock price, and therefore your investment in our company, may be volatile. Our major shareholders exercise significant influence on us and they may pursue policies with which you disagree. As of December 1, 2006, Terry D. Wall, our chief executive officer, and his wife beneficially owned 16.6% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, the trusts established for the benefit of the Walls’ children beneficially owned 11.9% of our outstanding common stock and an estate planning trust established by Terry D. Wall beneficially owned 9.7% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Wall and his wife have a significant influence in electing our directors, appointing new management and approving any action requiring the approval of our shareholders, including any amendment to our certificate of incorporation and approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. This influence may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and New Jersey law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions include: • the authorization of the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock without further approval of our shareholders; • the election of directors on a staggered term basis; and 29 • the elimination of shareholder action by written consent. Similarly, our by-laws establish procedures, including advance notification procedures, with regard to the nomination, other than by or at the direction of our board of directors, of candidates for election as directors or for shareholder proposals to be submitted at shareholder meetings. We are also subject to the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, an anti-takeover provision. In general, that Act prevents a shareholder owning 10% or more of a New Jersey public corporation’s outstanding voting stock from engaging in business combinations with that corporation for five years following the date the shareholder acquired 10% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, unless board approval is obtained prior to the time that the shareholder reaches the 10% threshold. These provisions are expected to discourage different types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of our company to first negotiate with our board of directors. At the same time, however, these provisions make it more difficult for a third-party to successfully acquire us, even if the acquisition were beneficial to our shareholders, and thus could prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 