Item 1A. Risk Factors The reader should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that the Company currently thinks are immaterial, actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of the Company’s shares could decline, and shareholders may lose all or a substantial part of their investment. Risks related to the Company’s industry Public and private sector health care organizations continue to exert substantial cost containment pressures that could adversely impact the Company’s selling prices and profitability. In recent years, both the public and private sectors have made widespread efforts to control health care costs, including the prices of products sold by the Company. Such efforts may have a material adverse effect on the pricing of, and the demand for, Company products. Health care organizations are evaluating approaches to reduce costs by decreasing the frequency with which a treatment, device, or product is used and by making more diagnostic procedures available for home-based testing as opposed to laboratory or hospital based testing. Cost containment also has caused the health-care purchasing decision-making function to shift from the physician to the administrator at the health care institution, resulting in an increased emphasis on reduced price, as opposed to product features and clinical benefits. Efforts by U.S. governmental and private payors to contain costs will likely continue, and the Company expects that international health care markets will follow a similar trend toward cost containment. The time and expense needed to obtain regulatory approval and respond to changes in regulatory requirements could adversely affect the Company’s ability to commercially distribute its products and services and generate sales revenue. The Company is subject to extensive worldwide regulation with respect to product clearance and enforcement activities. This results in long product approval cycles, uncertainty with respect to the timing of the introduction of new or modified products, uncertain regulatory approvals, and substantial expenses. The Company’s products are subject to extensive regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (the FDA) and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies. Additionally, some of the Company’s sleep disorder services are subject to additional regulation from various local regulatory agencies. The FDA regulates the pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, distribution, and promotion of medical devices. It can take several years to receive the appropriate clearances from the FDA, and the Company cannot assure that it will always obtain such clearances. If the Company decides to develop any products that are categorized by the FDA as Class III medical devices, the time, effort and expense required to obtain the necessary clearances will increase significantly. In addition, the products that the Company manufactures or distributes pursuant to FDA clearances are subject to pervasive and continuing regulations by the FDA. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the government to grant pre-market clearance for devices, withdrawal of marketing clearances, and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to require the Company to repair, replace, or refund the cost of any device that it manufactures or distributes. International sales of medical devices are subject to foreign government regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance, and the requirements may differ significantly. Over the last several years several countries, such as Australia, China, Japan, and India have imposed new regulations on the registration of medical devices which in some instances have significantly lengthened the registration process. Non-compliance with foreign regulations may carry the same or increased risks, liabilities, and exposures as non-compliance with FDA requirements. Foreign regulatory authorities also have the authority to require the Company to repair, replace, or refund the cost of any device that the Company manufactures or distributes. -17- Certain business activities require that the Company collect and/or use information about individuals and their medical conditions. As a result, the Company is subject to complex regulations by both United States and foreign authorities to protect individual privacy by requiring that the Company maintain the confidentiality of patient information. Implementation and compliance with these regulations are costly. Even after receiving FDA and foreign regulatory clearance or approval, the Company’s products may be subject to product recalls, which may harm the Company. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to make a mandatory recall or order the market removal of the Company’s products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in medical device design, manufacture, or labeling. Any recall of Company products may materially adversely affect the Company’s profitability, divert managerial resources, and harm the Company’s reputation. The Company may lose significant customers as a result of substantial consolidation within the health care industry. Over the past several years, the health care industry, including many of the Company’s customers, has undergone significant consolidation, and the Company expects this trend to continue. The Company is subject to risks and uncertainties that result from mergers and acquisitions involving its customers. If, as a result of such mergers or combinations, the Company’s customers lose control of the purchasing function, decide to use one of the Company’s competitors or reduce their orders for Company products, the Company’s revenues may be materially adversely affected. Government and private insurance plans may not reimburse the Company’s customers for the Company’s products, which could result in reductions in sales or selling prices for Company products. The cost of medical care in the United States and many other countries is funded substantially by government and private insurance programs. If such funding becomes limited or unavailable to the Company’s customers, the Company’s business may be adversely affected. Although the Company does not generally receive payment for its products or services directly from these payors other than for its sleep diagnostic services, the Company’s continued success is dependent upon the ability of patients or the Company’s customers to obtain adequate reimbursement for Company products and services. In most major markets, Company products are purchased primarily by hospitals which in turn bill third-party payors or bill patients directly who then seek reimbursement from third-party payors. In the United States, third-party payors include Medicare, Medicaid, and private health insurance providers. These payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device has not received appropriate FDA clearance, is not used in accordance with approved indications, or is experimental, unnecessary, or deemed to be inappropriate treatment for the patient. Third-party payors are also increasingly challenging prices charged for medical products and services. The Company cannot assure that its products will be considered cost-effective by third-party payors, reimbursement will be available, or that payors’ reimbursement policies will not adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell its products on a profitable basis, if at all. Health care reimbursement systems vary from country to country and, accordingly, the Company cannot assure that third-party reimbursement available under one system will be available for procedures utilizing Company products under any other reimbursement system. Lack of, or inadequate reimbursement by, government and other third-party payors for Company products would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Health care reform proposals are gaining substantial support in the United States Congress and state legislatures and could impact the profitability of the Company’s business. The United States health care industry is subject to several reform proposals, including more stringent regulations. It is uncertain whether and when such proposals would become legal requirements affecting the Company’s business, but the Company cannot assure that any such changes will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws may have a dramatic effect on the costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement the Company’s customers receive from both government and third-party payors. Federal, state and local -18- government representatives will, in all likelihood, continue to review and assess alternative regulations and payment methodologies. Health care legislation and regulation by state legislatures regarding licensure requirements for healthcare professionals could impact the profitability of the Company’s business. Several states in which the Company’s Sleep Services of America business operates have taken steps to improve licensure requirements for polysomnographic sleep technicians that monitor patients during sleep diagnostic procedures. As licensing requirements are imposed, the pool of qualified personnel tends to shrink leading to a drive for higher salaries. The Company cannot assure that these changes in the pool of available qualified employees will not have an impact on the Company’s ability to maintain its profit margins at historic levels. The Company incurs expenses to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. The Company is subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use and disposal of hazardous materials. The Company incurs expenses to comply with such laws and regulations and any violation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks related to the Company’s business The markets for the Company’s products and services are highly competitive, and the Company competes against substantially larger companies. Competition among medical device companies is intense. If the Company is unable to compete effectively with existing or future competitors, it may be prevented from retaining the Company’s existing customers or from attracting new customers, which could materially impair the Company’s business. There are a number of companies that currently offer, or are in the process of developing, products that compete with products that the Company offers. The Company cannot assure that some of these competitors will not succeed in developing products that are more effective and/or less expensive than those currently used or produced by the Company or that would render some products offered by the Company obsolete or non-competitive. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, and marketing resources than the Company has and may be in a better position than the Company is to withstand the adverse effects on gross margins and profitability caused by price decreases prevalent in this competitive environment. The presence of group purchasing organizations may affect the Company’s competitive position, pricing and ultimately profits. The Company’s ability to sell its products to hospitals depends on the Company’s relationships with group purchasing organizations. In fiscal 2007, Company sales of anesthesia and respiratory/critical care products related to group purchasing arrangements amounted to $27.3 million, representing 28% of total net revenue from United States hospital sales. In 2008, Company contracts with several of the group purchasing organizations will terminate unless the parties mutually agree to renew them. In fiscal 2007, the Company had net revenues of $5.0 million under the contracts subject to termination or renewal in 2008. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to renew these contracts at the current or substantially similar terms. If the Company is unable to keep its relationships and develop new relationships with group purchasing organizations, the Company’s competitive position would likely suffer. In addition, some group purchasing organizations have tested the use of new internet bidding procedures in order to maximize their abilities to negotiate lower prices with suppliers. Movement to these bidding modalities has been implemented by some organizations and has resulted in lower pricing in some instances. The Company cannot assure that continued movement to these bidding modalities will not increase. This may result in lower pricing or failure to secure contracts with these organizations. The Company could lose customers and its business could be adversely affected if its competitors implement new technologies before the Company does. The market for Company products is characterized by frequent product improvements and evolving technology. The Company’s revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by technological change. -19- To compete effectively, the Company must anticipate and adapt to technological changes and offer, on a timely basis, competitively priced products with new and improved features that meet evolving industry standards and customer preferences. The Company may choose to develop or invest in new technologies that prove to be ineffective, do not gain market acceptance, or are incompatible with technologies of the Company’s customers. As new technologies develop, the Company may be forced to implement these new technologies at a substantial cost in order to remain competitive. In addition, competitors may implement new technologies which allow them to offer lower-priced and/or superior quality products which may render Company products obsolete or uncompetitive. The Company is dependent on a single supplier for one of its key products. Face masks are used in a variety of the Company’s anesthesia circuits and manual resuscitators. On February 2, 2007, the Company announced that it was ending its relationship with Respironics. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company formed a Chinese joint venture to manufacture face masks. Respironics was the Company’s sole face mask supplier until the formation of the Chinese joint venture. Respironics has continued to provide products to the Company during the transition to the joint venture, and Respironics has sold substantial manufacturing assets to the Company. If the Company becomes unable to fully transition the face mask manufacture to the joint venture or if the supply of face masks would be interrupted, the Company would find alternative suppliers. The Company believes that alternative face mask suppliers exist; however, there is no assurance that, in the event of a face mask supply interruption, the Company could maintain a delivery of face masks in a quantity and at a cost that would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results. The Company is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for key components of some of its products and delivery delays or the loss of vendors could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company relies on vendors to supply the key components of some of its products. The Company is dependent on petroleum-based resins for most of its products. The fluctuations in petroleum prices due to market conditions or international events and the limited number of resin suppliers could result in increased production costs or the interruption of raw materials. The Company cannot assure that it will not experience delays from resin suppliers or vendors of key components in the future. In the event the Company is unable to obtain components for any of its products, or is unable to obtain components on commercially reasonable terms, the Company may not be able to manufacture or distribute its products on a timely and competitive basis, or at all. If the Company experiences any delays in component availability, the cost incurred in switching business to alternate suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. If the Company loses key personnel, or is unable to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel required to lead the Company and to enable the Company to grow its activities, the Company’s business would likely suffer. To successfully expand the Company’s operations, it will need to attract and retain additional, highly skilled individuals, particularly in the areas of sales, marketing, manufacturing, and finance. If the Company cannot attract sufficient skilled individuals, it may not be able to successfully grow its business, and the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The Company’s success depends upon developing new products and product enhancements, which entails considerable time and expense. The Company places a high priority on developing new products to add to its product portfolio and on the development of enhancements to its existing products. Product development involves substantial expense, and the Company cannot be certain that a completed product will generate sufficient revenue to justify the resources that the Company devotes to research and development. The time and expense required to develop new products and product enhancements is difficult to predict, and the Company cannot assure that it will succeed in developing, introducing, and marketing new products and product -20- enhancements. The Company’s inability to successfully develop and introduce new or enhanced products on a timely basis, at all, or to achieve market acceptance of such products, could materially impair the Company’s business. Price changes in the raw materials the Company uses could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The principal raw material used to produce Company products is plastic resin, a petro-chemical compound. The Company has elected to purchase plastic resin under short-term contracts rather than entering into long-term contracts, commodity futures, or derivative instrument transactions. The Company is, therefore, subject to fluctuations in the price of plastic resin that may result from changes in the price of petroleum-based products, increases or decreases in demand during a given period, or for other reasons. As a result of price competition, the Company may be unable to pass on to customers the higher manufacturing costs incurred if there were a significant increase in the price of plastic resin or other raw materials, which would negatively impact the Company’s profit margins and results of operations. If the Company is unable to identify, complete, and integrate future acquisitions, its business may suffer. The Company has supplemented internal growth with product, technology, and business acquisitions in the past, and intends to do so in the future. The Company’s acquisition strategy is subject to inherent risks, including the following: • viable acquisition candidates may not be available to the Company on price and other terms that are satisfactory; • the Company may be unable to integrate acquired companies effectively into its business; • the Company may be unsuccessful in commercializing products that it manufactures pursuant to acquired or licensed patents; • acquired companies may require more capital resources and/or management attention than the Company anticipates at the time of acquisition; • the Company may have limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries that it enters; • the Company may be unable to retain the key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these businesses; • the Company may suffer adverse customer reaction to the business combination; • the Company’s due diligence may fail to identify liabilities and exposures which, once discovered, materially adversely affect its ability to operate the newly acquired business profitably; and • management focus on the Company’s existing businesses may be diverted. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair the Company’s operating results by causing it to incur debt or requiring it to amortize acquisition expenses and acquired assets. The Company cannot be certain that its product liability insurance will be sufficient to protect it against significant exposure to product liability risks. The Company is exposed to potential product liability resulting from the use of its products. The Company presently maintains product liability insurance coverage of $15.0 million in the aggregate. This product liability policy generally protects the Company against claims of bodily injury or property damage arising out of any products manufactured, sold or distributed by the Company. If a judgment in a product liability suit were entered against the Company or the Company entered into a settlement agreement in excess of a policy limit or outside the scope of coverage, including punitive damages, the Company’s -21- profitability and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The Company cannot assure that its current level of insurance will be sufficient to cover product liability claims or that such coverage will remain available to the Company on satisfactory terms, if at all. The Company maintains a professional errors and omissions policy for potential claims arising from the pharmaceutical technologies business segment and for Sleep Services of America. The Company manufactures and sells a significant portion of its products in markets outside the United States, subjecting the Company to various risks relating to international activities. International sales accounted for approximately 24.6% of total net revenue during fiscal 2007. Such sales are subject to several risks that are separate and distinct from those the Company faces in its United States operations, including: • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • foreign customers who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights; • currency losses that may arise as a result of the fact that not all of the Company’s sales are denominated in United States dollars; • compliance with foreign medical device manufacturing and sales regulations in the countries in which the Company sells and/or manufactures its products; • changes in trade policies and in domestic and foreign tax policies in the countries in which the Company sells and/or manufactures its products; • possible changes in export or import restrictions in the countries in which the Company sells and/or manufactures its products; • the modification or introduction of other governmental policies or regulations in the countries in which the Company sells and/or manufactures its products; and • political uncertainties in countries that the Company sells and/or manufactures its products, in particular in the People’s Republic of China, where the Company manufactures anesthesia face masks. Any such factor may affect the Company’s international operations and its potential for growth in markets outside of the United States and may have a significant adverse effect on the sales of Company products and its profitability. If the Company is unable to maintain relationships with distributors, the Company’s business may be adversely affected. Certain hospitals require the Company to sell products through distributors. For fiscal 2007, approximately 22.6% of the Company’s net revenue was distributed through Cardinal Health Corporation and Owens & Minor, Inc. There has also been consolidation in the hospital distribution business with Owens & Minor having recently purchased McKesson-General Medical. If the Company’s relationships with these distributors were damaged and the Company was unable to develop relationships with other distributors, the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company has been disputing with Cardinal Health over inappropriate and unauthorized cash payment discounts that Cardinal Health continues to deduct from payments. If the Company is unable to resolve this dispute through negotiation, it may initiate legal action against Cardinal Health. The Company cannot assure that Cardinal Health will not attempt to terminate business relationships with the Company should the Company sue Cardinal Health. The Company may not be able to obtain new patents or protect its existing patents, which could enable third-parties to use the Company’s technology. -22- The Company’s ability to compete effectively depends in part on the Company’s ability to maintain the proprietary nature of its technologies and manufacturing processes, which includes the ability to obtain, protect, and enforce patents on its technology and products. If the Company is unable to obtain new patents and protect its existing patents, the Company’s competitive position may suffer. The Company owns or has licensed patents that cover several aspects of its anesthesia, respiratory/critical care, and sleep disorder segments. Others may challenge the Company’s patents and, as a result, the Company’s patents could be narrowed, invalidated, or rendered unenforceable. Competitors may develop products similar to the Company’s products, which the Company’s patents do not cover. In addition, the Company’s current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. Further, there is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. Additionally, many of the Company’s products are not protected by patents, but rather are distinguished by product features that others may seek to copy. As some of the Company’s older patents expire, the Company has explored new inventions to add to those products. In certain instances when a patent expires, the Company may rely on its trademarks to provide protection for the Company. The Company’s competitive position is dependent in part upon unpatented trade secrets that the Company may not be able to protect. The Company’s competitive position is also dependent upon unpatented trade secrets. Trade secrets are difficult to protect, and the Company cannot assure that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to the Company’s trade secrets. If other companies are successful in copying the Company’s trade secrets and developing products similar to the Company’s, the Company may lose its competitive position and revenue may be significantly impacted. The Company seeks to protect its trade secrets, know-how, and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with select employees. The Company cannot assure, however, that: • these agreements will not be breached; • the Company will have adequate remedies for any breach; or • trade secrets, know-how, and other unpatented proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by the Company’s competitors. The Company holds licenses with third parties that are necessary to produce some of the Company’s products. The loss of such licenses would prevent the Company from manufacturing, marketing, and selling these products, which could harm the Company’s business. The Company’s success is dependent in part on its ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. The Company has been sued in the past and may be sued again in the future, for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, the Company may find it necessary, if threatened, to initiate a lawsuit seeking a declaration from a court that the Company does not infringe the proprietary rights of others or that others’ rights are invalid or unenforceable. Even if the Company prevails in such litigation, infringement proceedings can be very expensive and time-consuming. If the Company does not prevail in infringement litigation, it may be required to pay damages and expenses, and would be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any required license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive, and, therefore, the Company’s competitors may have access to the same technology. If the Company fails to obtain a required license or is unable to design around a patent, the Company may be unable to sell some of its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company may decide not to introduce a product in the United States or a foreign country based on potential risk of patent infringement litigation. -23- Government regulation restricts the manner in which the Company may sell its obstructive sleep apnea products to customers of the Company’s sleep centers and the manner in which the Company relates to referring physicians. The Company operates sleep centers and laboratories in the United States that diagnose obstructive sleep apnea and other sleep disorders. The Company’s ability to sell its Breas products in Company sleep centers and laboratories is restricted by strict regulations which prohibit the Company from diverging from a physician’s prescription. If a physician prescribes a continuous positive airway pressure, or CPAP, product other than a Breas product at one of the Company’s sleep centers and laboratories, the Company is generally prohibited by federal regulations from substituting a Breas product. Federal anti-kickback and anti-referral regulations strictly limit the extent to which the Company may provide anything of value to physicians who refer Medicare or Medicaid patients to Company sleep centers and laboratories. Any failure by the Company to comply with these regulations may result in significant regulatory actions, including criminal prosecution and large fines, which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. If the Company is unable to support its continued growth, the Company’s business may suffer. As the Company grows, the complexity of its operations increases, placing greater demands on the Company’s management. The Company’s ability to manage its growth effectively depends in part upon its ability to implement and improve its financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to affect other changes in its business. If the Company fails to manage its growth effectively, its business could suffer. Unexpected difficulties during expansion, the failure to attract and retain qualified employees, the failure to successfully replace or upgrade its management information systems, the failure to manage costs, the inability to respond effectively to growth opportunities, or the inability to plan for future expansion could cause the Company’s growth to slow down or could require the Company to reduce its size. A significant shift in technologies or methods used in the treatment of sleep apnea could make the Company’s sleep centers and products obsolete or less attractive. The development of new technologies or methods could reduce the demand for Company sleep centers and laboratories and its sleep disorder products. For example, pharmaceutical advances could result in different methods of treating sleep apnea and a reduced need for the Company’s CPAP therapy products. The emergence of a low-invasive cost effective surgery to treat sleep apnea could also diminish the demand for the Company’s sleep products and its sleep centers and laboratories. Regulatory and/or insurance reimbursement changes to current standards on reimbursement for home-based sleep disorder diagnostic testing may adversely impact the Company’s revenues. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes one or more of the Company’s manufacturing facilities, the Company may be unable to manufacture certain products for a substantial amount of time and the Company’s revenue and profitability could decline. The Company has four manufacturing facilities located in the United States and one manufacturing facility located in Sweden. The Company is also a partner in a joint venture manufacturing facility in China. These facilities, the manufacturing equipment, and personnel know-how that the Company uses to produce its products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. The Company’s facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. In the event that one of the Company’s facilities was affected by a disaster, the Company would attempt to shift production to its other manufacturing facilities or rely on third-party manufacturers. The Company’s other facilities or a third-party manufacturer may not have the capability to effectively supply the affected products. Although the Company has insurance for property damage and business interruption, this insurance may not be sufficient in scope or amount to cover all of the potential losses and may not continue to be available to the Company on acceptable terms, or at all. -24- Requirements associated with the evaluation of internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have required and will require significant Company resources and management attention. Although the Company believes that it is currently in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Company may in the future identify material deficiencies that it may not be able to remediate on a timely basis. If the Company is not able to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, the Company could become subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and the trading price of the Company’s stock could decline. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for the Company to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping the Company prevent financial fraud. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, its business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, and the trading price of the Company’s stock could drop significantly. Risks related to purchasing the Company’s common stock The Company’s quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation which may impact its stock price. The Company’s operating results have, from time to time, fluctuated on a quarterly basis and may be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. These fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: • the introduction of new products by the Company or its competitors; • acquisitions; • actions taken by group purchasing organizations; • timing of orders by the Company’s customers; • the mix of Company product sales; • competitive pricing in different regions in which the Company sells its products; • timing and cost of regulatory clearances and approvals of Company products; • the cost, effect, and success of the Company’s promotional and marketing programs; • the effect of the flu season on the Company’s respiratory/critical care business; • loss of any of the Company’s key management or technical personnel; • product liability lawsuits against the Company; • changes in health care policy in the United States and internationally; • conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding the Company’s common stock, other comparable companies or the medical device industry generally, or lack of analyst coverage of the Company’s common stock; • changes in accounting principles and/or critical accounting estimates; • expenditures incurred by the Company for research and development; and -25- • expenditures incurred by the Company to comply with enhanced regulatory obligations and internal control requirements. Any of these factors may cause the price for the Company’s common stock to fluctuate and therefore decrease the value of any investment in the Company. A substantial portion of the Company’s assets includes goodwill and an impairment in the value of goodwill would have the effect of decreasing the Company’s earnings or increasing its losses. As of September 30, 2007, goodwill represented 24.8% of total assets. If the Company is required to record an impairment charge to earnings relating to goodwill, it will decrease earnings or increase losses. Goodwill represents the excess of the total purchase price of acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. The accounting standards on goodwill and other intangible assets that the Company adopted as of October 1, 2001 require goodwill to be reviewed at least annually for impairment, and does not permit amortization. In the event that impairment is identified, a charge to earnings will be recorded and the Company’s stock price may decline as a result. For fiscal 2007, the Company recorded $15.1 million of impairment charges related to its Stelex subsidiary and an acquisition made by Sleep Services of America. A large percentage of the Company’s outstanding common stock is held by insiders, and, as a result, the trading market for the Company’s common stock is less liquid and the Company’s stock price can be volatile. As of December 14, 2007, the Company had 13,286,050 shares of common stock outstanding. Approximately 16.7% of these shares are beneficially owned by Terry D. Wall, chief executive officer, and his wife, an additional 11.8% of these shares are beneficially owned by trusts established for the benefit of the Walls’ children, and an additional 9.6% of these shares are beneficially owned by an estate planning trust established by Terry D. Wall. Such trusts are administered by trustees who have no current or prior relationship with Vital Signs. Companies like Vital Signs, with a relatively small percentage of shares held by the public, can be subject to a more volatile stock price. The Company’s stock price, and therefore shareholders’ investments in the Company, may be volatile. The Company’s major shareholders exercise significant influence on the Company and they may pursue policies with which other shareholders disagree. As stated above, Mr. Wall has a significant influence in electing Company directors, appointing new management, and approving any action requiring shareholder approval, including any amendment to the Company’s certificate of incorporation and approval of mergers or sales of substantially all assets. This influence may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or discouraging others from making tender offers for the Company’s shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. The Company’s certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and New Jersey law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring the Company and may prevent attempts by its stockholders to replace or remove the Company’s current management. Anti-takeover provisions in the Company’s certificate of incorporation make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be beneficial to shareholders. These provisions include: • the authorization of the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of the Company’s preferred stock without further approval of shareholders; • the election of directors on a staggered term basis; and • the elimination of shareholder action by written consent. Similarly, the Company’s by-laws establish procedures, including advance notification procedures, with regard to the nomination, other than by or at the direction of the Company’s board of directors, of candidates for election as directors or for shareholder proposals to be submitted at shareholder meetings. -26- The Company is also subject to the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act, an anti-takeover provision, that prevents a shareholder owning 10% or more of a New Jersey public corporation’s outstanding voting stock from engaging in business combinations with that corporation for five years following the date the shareholder acquired 10% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, unless board approval is obtained prior to the time that the shareholder reaches the 10% threshold. These provisions are expected to discourage different types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of the Company to first negotiate with the Company’s board of directors. At the same time, however, these provisions make it more difficult for a third-party to successfully acquire the Company, even if the acquisition were beneficial to the Company’s shareholders, and thus could prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 