ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company describes below some of these risks and uncertainties. These should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Detailed discussions of the specific risks outlined in this section and other risks facing the Company are included within this Form 10-K in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Please see the Company’s cautionary statements as to “Forward-Looking Statements” for further description of certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may fail to complete or fail to realize anticipated benefits from our proposed acquisition of F&M Holdings of Boise, Idaho. On December 27, 2005 the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire F&M of Boise Idaho, through a merger transaction in which all outstanding shares of F&M common stock will be exchanged for cash and common shares of the Company. Completion of the merger is subject to satisfaction of various conditions set forth in the merger agreement, including regulatory and Cascade shareholder approvals, and, therefore, may or may not be completed or delayed. The combined bank may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated business opportunities envisioned in the acquisition, or may not realize the cost savings or other benefits of the transaction. In addition, integration issues could cause higher than anticipated expenses and lower benefits from the merger than currently anticipated. In this regard, Farmers & Merchants State Bank has had deficiencies in its bank regulatory compliance management system, including weak oversight of its compliance function, insufficient internal monitoring procedures and an inadequate internal audit function. Although Cascade has a strong bank regulatory compliance management system, and believes it will be able to remedy Farmers & Merchants State Bank’s deficiencies following the merger, implementation of remedial measure may take significant time and expenses. Adverse changes in economic growth and vitality in the Company’s banking markets may negatively impact the Company. The Company’s business is closely tied to the economies of Central and Southern Oregon as well as to the cities of Portland and Salem metropolitan areas. A sustained economic downturn could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s reserve for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operation. The Company maintains a reserve for loan losses to absorb estimated probable loan losses inherent in the loan and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. In determining the level of the reserve, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan portfolio. If the Company’s assumptions are incorrect, the reserve for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Many of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate located in Oregon. If these locations experience an economic downturn that impact real estate values and customers’ ability to repay, loan losses may exceed the estimates that are currently included in the reserve for loan losses, which could adversely affect our financial results and shareholder value. The inability to attract or retain key banking employees could adversely affect revenues and net income. The Company strives to attract and retain key banking professionals, management and staff is to achieve its growth goals. Banking related revenues could be adversely affected in the event of a loss of key personnel. 11 Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company. The Company’s earnings are highly dependent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to the market interest rates may impact the level of loans, deposits and investments, and the credit quality of existing loans. These rates may be affected by many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general and economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact the Company’s ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state banking authorities which impose requirements and restrictions on the Company’s operations. The impact of changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for the Company and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Competition may adversely affect the Company. The Company faces competition for its services from a variety of competitors. The Company’s future growth and success depends on its ability to compete effectively. The Company competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous financial service providers including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies. Competition could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Operational risks including communications system interruptions or breach in security systems may adversely affect the Company. The Company relies on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Some of these communications and information systems are provided or supported by third party service providers. A significant disruption in key communications or information systems could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. A material security breach of the Company’s information systems or data (whether managed by the Company or by third parties) could harm the Company’s reputation, cause a decrease in the number of customers, and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None ITEM 