Item 1A. Risk Factors. This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those set forth below in this Item 1A, that could cause our actual results of operations and financial condition to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties set forth below should be carefully considered when evaluating our business and prospects. Current economic conditions may harm our business and results of operations. Global economic conditions and financial markets have continued to be challenging in the enterprise software market, and national and global economies and financial markets continue to experience a deep recession stemming from a multitude of factors, including adverse credit conditions, slower economic activity, concerns about failures or the instability of major financial institutions and other businesses, inflation and deflation, continuing high rates of unemployment, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns and other factors. Economic growth in the U.S. and many other countries has slowed and may slow further. The severity of these economic and financial market conditions and the length of time they may persist are unknown. During challenging economic times and in tight credit markets, many prospective customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This has resulted, and could continue to result in, reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, smaller sales levels, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Continued softness in corporate information technology spending would have a direct impact on our business and any of these events would likely materially harm our business, including decreasing our revenues, decreasing cash provided by operating activities and negatively impacting our liquidity. We cannot predict the duration of these economic conditions or the impact they will have on our customers or business. We are dependent on a limited number of products, especially Versant Object Database or "VOD". Most of our license revenues to date have been derived from our VOD product, its predecessors and related products that add to or extend the capabilities of VOD. Consequently, if our ability to generate revenues from VOD were negatively impacted, our business, cash flows and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Many factors could negatively impact our ability to generate revenues from Versant Object Database, including without limitation softness in demand in the North American or European markets for enterprise software, the current downturn in the global economy and any slowness in the U.S. or European economies or in key industries we serve, such as the telecommunications and defense industries, the success of competitive products of other vendors, reduction in the prices we can obtain for our products due to competitive or economic factors, the adoption of new technologies or standards that make our products technologically obsolete and customer reluctance to invest in object-oriented technologies. Although we have taken steps to diversify our product line through our 2004 acquisition of Poet and its FastObjects data management product and our December 2008 acquisition of db4o, we still expect that sales of VOD will continue to be very critical to our revenues for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any significant reduction in revenue levels from our VOD product can be expected to have a material negative impact on our business and results of operation. Our products face significant competition from larger competitors. Our VOD, FastObjects and db4o products compete with products of other companies that offer database management systems. We face substantial competition from substantially larger and well-established relational database management companies including Oracle, Computer Associates, Sybase, IBM, and Microsoft. We also face competition from object database companies including Progress Software Corporation and Objectivity. Additionally, some of our prospective customers might attempt to build specialized data storage capability themselves using their own internal engineering resources, sometimes starting with low level operating system functionality, and other times utilizing lower level data storage routines that are commercially available, such as Oracle Berkeley DB, a simplified database without query processing 11 Table of Contents capability. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources, better and wider name recognition broader suites of product offerings, stronger sales and distribution channels and a much larger installed base of customers than ours. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers. Our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products. They may also have more direct access to corporate decision-makers of key customers based on their previous relationships with these customers. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and may have the competitive advantage of being able to sell products competitive to ours through package sales of a suite of a variety of products for different applications that we do not offer. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, and competitive pressures could cause us to lose revenues or lower the prices for our products to increase or maintain our sales revenues, or to take other market-responsive actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Reduced demand for our products and services may prevent us from achieving targeted revenues and profitability. Our revenues and our ability to achieve and sustain profitability depend on continuing or increasing the level of overall demand for the software products and services we offer. Reduced demand for our product line may result from competition offered by competitors or alternative technologies, negative customer perception of our object-oriented technology or other causes, including economic conditions that adversely affect the industries of our most significant customers, such as the defense and telecommunications industries. In addition, we have experienced continued hesitancy on the part of our existing and potential customers to commit to new products or services from us, particularly in our North American markets. Any significant reduction in the demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our customer concentration increases the potential volatility of our operating results. Due to the nature of our products a significant portion of our total revenues has been, and we believe will continue to be, derived from a limited number of significant orders placed by large organizations. Although in fiscal year 2009, no one customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in any fiscal quarter, previously we have experienced higher customer concentration. For example, in fiscal 2008, one customer accounted for 23% of our total revenues for the first quarter; two customers accounted for 15% and 14%, respectively, of our total revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2008; two customers accounted for 22% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2008; although no one customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues for fiscal 2008. Two customers accounted for 14% and 8%, respectively, of our total revenues for fiscal 2007 and one customer accounted for 21% of our total revenues for the quarter ended October 31, 2007. The timing of large orders and their fulfillment has caused, and in the future is likely to cause, material fluctuations in our operating results, particularly on a quarterly basis. In addition, our major customers tend to change from year to year. The loss of any one or more of our major customers, or our inability to replace a customer making declining purchases with a new customer of comparable significance, could each have a material adverse effect on our business. Our quarterly revenue levels are not predictable. Our revenues have fluctuated (in some cases significantly) on a quarterly basis, and we expect this trend to continue. For example, in fiscal 2009, our quarterly revenues fluctuated from a high of $5.6 million in the first quarter of 2009 to a low of 12 Table of Contents $4.0 million in the second quarter of 2009. These quarterly fluctuations result from a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: •delays by our customers (including customers who are resellers) in signing revenue-bearing contracts that were expected to be entered into in a particular fiscal quarter and, in particular, the timing of any significant sales transactions; •the status of the market for enterprise software and general macroeconomic factors that impact our potential customers' capital purchasing decisions for information technology (or "IT") solutions, such as our products and may result in fewer licenses or smaller license transactions; •the lengthy sales cycle associated with our products, which complicates our ability to accurately forecast the timing of our revenues; •fluctuations in domestic and foreign demand for our products and services, particularly in the telecommunications and defense markets; •customer and market perceptions of the value and currency of object-oriented software technology; •uncertainty regarding the timing and scope of our customers' deployment of VOD-based applications, where our revenues are contingent upon the customer's deployment of our product; •any failure by us to timely develop and launch successful new products; •the impact of new product introductions, both by us and by our competitors; •our unwillingness to lower prices significantly to meet reduced prices set by our competitors or to successfully meet other competitive market conditions; •the effect of the publication by industry writers or others regarding their opinions about us, our competitors, our products and our competitors' products; •customer deferrals of orders for our products or services in anticipation of our product enhancements, or the pending release of new product versions or new product offerings by us or our competitors; •the extent to which we do or do not complete tasks under contracts for consulting projects which must be completed in order for us to recognize certain revenues under such contracts; •failure to transition db4o customers to other Versant products; and •potential customers' unwillingness to invest in our products given our size and assets. 13 Table of Contents Our future revenues are substantially dependent upon our installed customers continuing to license Versant products and renew their maintenance agreements for our products. Our future professional services and maintenance revenues are dependent on future sales of our software products. We depend heavily on our installed customer base for future revenues from licenses of additional products or upgrades of existing products and related fees from the renewal of maintenance and support agreements. If our existing customers do not purchase additional products, upgrade existing products or renew their maintenance and support agreements with us, this could materially and adversely affect our business and future quarterly and annual operating results. The terms of our standard license arrangements provide for a one-time license fee and a prepayment of one year of software maintenance and support fees. Our maintenance agreements are generally renewable annually at the option of the customer, and there are no minimum payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. Therefore, our current customers may not necessarily generate significant maintenance revenues in future periods if they choose not to renew our maintenance services. This risk may be increased in the case of long-term customers who have not upgraded our products which they license. In addition, our customers may choose not to purchase additional products, upgrades or professional services. Our professional services and maintenance revenues are also dependent upon the continued use of our products by our installed customer base. Consequently, any downturn in our software license revenues would likely have a corresponding negative impact on the growth of our professional service revenues. We depend on successful technology development. We believe that it will be necessary for us to continue to incur significant research and development expenditures in order for us to remain competitive. While we believe our research and development expenditures will improve our product lines, because of the uncertainty of software development projects and risks posed by the current economic downturn, these expenditures will not necessarily result in successful product introductions or sustained revenue levels. Uncertainties affecting the success of software development project introductions include technical difficulties, delays in the introductions of new products, market conditions, competitive products, and customer acceptance of and demand for new products and the operating systems they run on. We also face certain challenges in integrating third-party technology embedded in our products. These challenges include the technological challenges of integration, which may result in development delays, and uncertainty regarding the economic terms of our relationship with our third-party technology providers, which may result in delays of the commercial release of new products. In addition, if we are required to adopt cost-conservation measures, we may be compelled to reduce the amounts of our investment in research and development activities, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain the competitiveness of our existing products, our ability to develop new products, and our future research and development capabilities. Failure to continue to timely develop technologies and products necessary for us to remain competitive is likely to have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our products have a lengthy sales cycle. The sales cycle for our VOD, FastObjects and db4o products varies substantially from customer to customer. This sale cycle often exceeds six months and can sometimes extend to a year or more, especially for sales to defense sector customers. Due in part to the critical and strategic nature of our products and the expenditures associated with their purchase, our potential customers are typically very cautious in making decisions to acquire our products. In order for us to influence our customers' decision to license our products generally requires us to provide a significant level of education to prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of our products, and we frequently commit to provide that education without any charge or reimbursement. Generally, pre-sales support efforts, such as assistance in performing benchmarking and application prototype development, are also conducted with no charge to customers. Because of the lengthy sales cycle for our products and the relatively large average dollar size of our individual licenses, a lost or delayed sales transaction could potentially have a significant negative impact on our operating results for a particular fiscal period. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to manage our costs effectively given the unpredictability of our revenues. We expect to continue to maintain a relatively high percentage of fixed expenses. Inasmuch as we completed a restructuring in fiscal 2005 and 2006 to significantly reduce our operating expenses and in fiscal 2007 reduced the rent expense for our U.S. headquarters, we might be unable to further reduce certain fixed expenses in order to accommodate any revenue reductions. Consequently, if our forecasted revenue does not materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. We rely on revenues from the telecommunications and defense industries; and these industries are characterized by complexity, intense competition and changes in purchasing cycles. Historically, we have been highly dependent upon the telecommunications industry and, more recently, we are also becoming increasingly dependent upon the defense industry for sales of VOD. Our success in these markets depends, to a large extent, on the general economic conditions affecting these industries, our ability to compete with other technology providers of solutions that directly compete with, or provide alternatives to, our products, our ability to develop products that can successfully interoperate in different computing environments and whether our existing and potential customers believe we have the expertise and financial stability necessary to provide effective solutions and support in these markets on an ongoing basis. If these conditions, among others, are not satisfied, we may not be successful in generating additional opportunities in these markets. The defense industry may experience new cycles of lower available technology budgets compared to previously high levels of U.S. defense spending for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, or changes in budgetary and spending priorities as a result of the new U.S. presidential administration. As previously noted, the current global economy is in a recession and, in the past, general economic downturns have also adversely affected our ability to generate revenues from customers in the telecommunications, defense and other industries. In addition, the types of applications and commercial products for the telecommunications and defense markets are continuing to develop and are rapidly changing, and these markets are characterized by an increasing number of new entrants whose products may compete with ours. As a result, we cannot predict the future growth of (or whether there will be future growth in) these markets, and demand for object-oriented databases applications in these markets may not develop or be sustainable. We also may not be successful in attaining a significant share of these markets due to competition and other factors, such as our limited size and working capital. Moreover, potential customers in these markets generally develop sophisticated and complex applications that require substantial consulting expertise to implement and optimize. There can be no assurance that we can hire and retain adequate skilled personnel to provide such ongoing consulting services. We rely on a substantial portion of our revenues being generated through our international operations and will continue to do so in the future. A large portion of our revenues is derived from customers located outside North America, and it is critical for us to maintain these international revenues. Following our 2004 acquisition of Poet, which had a strong European presence, international revenues have represented a larger percentage of our total revenues than they had prior to that time. Consequently, we maintain a significant portion of our workforce in Germany and must conduct our operations internationally and maintain a significant presence in international markets. For fiscal 2009, international revenues derived from customers outside North America made up approximately 62% of our total revenues for the fiscal year, compared to 63% for fiscal 2008 and 54% for fiscal 2007. Our North American revenues were 38% of total revenues for fiscal 2009, compared to 37% for fiscal 2008 and 46% for fiscal 2007. Most of our non-North American revenues are derived from Northern Europe, but we recently have taken initial steps to develop a new distribution channel in China in an effort to expand our customer base and future revenues. We have substantially less experience in the sale and marketing of our products and services in China and there can be no assurance that our efforts to develop new customers there will be successful or will not result in increased sales and marketing costs that may not generate corresponding revenue, which would adversely affect our operating results. We expect international revenues to continue to be critical to our operations and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents International Operations pose unique risks. Our international operations are subject to a number of unique risks in addition to the risks faced by our domestic operations. These risks include, but are not limited to the following areas: •longer receivable collection periods; •adverse changes in regulatory requirements; •dependence on independent resellers; •fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; •compliance with multiple and conflicting laws, regulations and technology standards in different jurisdictions, some of which are more burdensome and restrictive than U.S. laws; •import and export restrictions, tariffs and other regulatory restrictions; •difficulties in, and increased costs of, staffing and managing foreign operations; •potentially adverse tax consequences arising from international operations and inter-company transactions; •the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including more protective employment laws affecting our sizable workforce in Germany; •limited ability to enforce agreements, intellectual property rights and other rights in some foreign countries; and •the impact of business cycles, economic and political instability and potential hostilities outside the United States. In addition, in light of increasing concerns about global security and terrorism, and the recent global economic downturn, there may be additional risks of disruption to our international sales activities. Any prolonged disruption in the markets in which we derive significant revenues may potentially have a material adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. Efforts to expand and diversify our product line may adversely affect our operating results and may not result in the development of successful new products. In order to sustain our revenues, we may need to develop new products to expand and diversify our product offerings beyond our core products, VOD, FastObjects and db4o. However expanding our product line will likely require substantial marketing, research and development and sales expenditures, and in some cases product acquisition costs, with no assurance that we will receive incremental additional revenue from such new products. To develop successful new products typically requires us to incur significant marketing expenditures to determine the viability of new products and applications and target customers, as well as substantial research and development expenditures and additional sales expense associated with selling new products to new customers. A significant portion of such expenses would likely be incurred well in advance of our recognition of any revenues from such new products, and thus could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows for certain fiscal periods before we derive any significant revenues from such new products. In addition, there can be no assurance that any new products will be accepted in the marketplace or generate meaningful amounts of revenue or net income. Failure to develop successful new products may adversely affect our ability to successfully market other products and our future revenues. Consequently, the Company must act carefully when making product or technology development decisions. In December 2008 we acquired the db4o database assets of Servo Software, with the objective of giving us a new product, as well as access to new customers and additional revenue opportunities. However the financial costs of this acquisition and associated operational costs has adversely affected our results of operations for fiscal year 2009 and may continue to do so. 16 Table of Contents In order to be successful, Versant must attract, retain and motivate key employees, for whom competition is intense; and failure to do so could seriously harm the Company, particularly given the smaller size of our executive management team. In order to effectively execute our business strategy, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, sales and technical positions. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly so given the relatively smaller size of our executive management team, which currently consists of Jochen Witte, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Jerry Wong, our Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary. In December 2008, the employment of our Executive VP of Field Operations, who was based in Germany, terminated and that officer's duties have been partially assumed by Jochen Witte, Versant's President and Chief Executive Officer, which has increased his responsibilities. In May 2009 we hired a manager to assume responsibility for our North American sales team. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, train and motivate highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Constraints on our ability to offer compensation at levels that may be offered by larger competitors and other circumstances may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management in the future. We must continue to motivate our employees and keep them focused on the achievement of our strategies and goals. We now employ a sizable German workforce subject to German employment law, which generally provides greater financial protection to terminated employees than does United States law. Consequently, failure to retain our German employees may cause us to incur significant severance costs, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our personnel, management team and operations are located in different countries and as a result, we may experience difficulty in coordinating our activities and successfully implementing Company goals. Following our 2004 merger with Poet, we acquired significant operations and personnel in Europe, and now have approximately 40 employees based in Europe whose activities must be well coordinated with those of our U.S. workforce and our other employees. Our management team resides in both our U.S. headquarters in Redwood City, California, where our Chief Financial Officer is located, and in our offices in Hamburg, Germany, where our Chief Executive Officer resides. The significant geographic dispersion of our management team and our workforce may make it more difficult for us to successfully manage our long-term objectives, coordinate activity across the Company, and integrate our operations and business plans and causes us to incur certain additional travel and other expenses to maintain communications between our various offices. We are subject to litigation and the risk of future litigation. During fiscal 2006, we settled a litigation that commenced in the last quarter of fiscal 2004 when we were sued by Systems America, Inc., a privately held company, in an action which alleged that, prior to our acquisition of a smaller privately-held company in November 2002, persons associated with that company misappropriated trade secrets and confidential information of Systems America, unfairly competed with Systems America with respect to its customer relationships, and infringed Systems America's trademarks and trade names. Additionally, during fiscal 2008, we settled another related litigation in which a prior customer was seeking indemnification from us for costs the customer had incurred in defending a suit brought against it by Systems America Inc., which alleged that a Versant product that was discontinued in 2004 infringed Systems America's intellectual party. Litigation can be expensive to defend, can consume significant amounts of management time and can result in judgments or settlements that could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and cash reserves. We will incur increased costs to comply with certain requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and regulations relating to corporate governance matters and public disclosure. The provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related rules adopted or proposed by the SEC and by the NASDAQ Stock Market and recent accounting pronouncements, including accounting rules regarding the expensing of stock options and accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, have increased our costs to evaluate the 17 Table of Contents implications of these laws, regulations and standards and comply with their requirements. Compliance with these will increase our general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2010 when we again become subject to the assessment and auditor attestation provisions regarding internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest resources to comply with existing requirements and standards. Although we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis, and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX 404"), and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement SOX 404, we are required to furnish an annual report in our Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, because this requirement to provide a management report has only been in effect since 2004, some of our judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore, we may have difficulties in assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls, and our auditors, who will be required in the future, to issue an attestation report along with our management report, may not agree with management's assessments. Although we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors are unable to provide an attestation report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls, or qualify such report or fail to provide such report in a timely manner), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. Adoption and application of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies regarding revenue recognition could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenues and profits. Although we use standardized license agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in multi-element or multi-year transactions. As our transactions increase in complexity with the sale of larger, multi-product, multi-year licenses, negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions with our customers can extend the sales cycle for our products and, in certain situations, may require us to defer recognition of revenue on such licenses. We believe that we are in compliance with ASC 985-605, Software, Revenue Recognition; however, these future, more complex, multi-element, multi-year license transactions, which may require additional accounting analysis to account for them accurately, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices and may contain terms affecting the timing of our revenue recognition. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an "ownership change" (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income may be limited. We may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of shifts in our stock ownership which are beyond our control. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset United States federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased tax liability to us in the future. 18 Table of Contents Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could impair our ability to successfully compete. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, third parties may attempt to misappropriate or copy aspects of our products, obtain or wrongfully use information we regard as proprietary or use or make unauthorized copies of our products or technologies in violation of license agreements. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and enforcing our proprietary rights is potentially expensive. In addition, the laws of many jurisdictions do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Shrink-wrap licenses may be wholly or partially unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and copyright and trade secret protection for software may be unavailable or very difficult to effectively enforce in certain foreign countries. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop similar technologies, which they could then market and sell to our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement. Developers of software such as the Company are frequently subject to infringement claims as the number of products, competitors and patents in our industry sector grows. Intellectual property infringement litigation can also arise from acquisitions by the Company of businesses or assets. For example, in 2004 we were the subject of a suit alleging that a company we purchased misappropriated intellectual property and the plaintiff in this litigation also brought an action against one of our customers on related facts, which resulted in that customer making a claim for indemnification against us. Although these suits were settled, any claim of this type, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, could result in significant litigation expenses, could cause product shipment delays and require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts in settlement of the claims or pursuant to judgments. If any of our products or technologies were found to infringe third-party rights, royalty or licensing agreements to use such third-party rights might not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we might be enjoined from marketing an infringing product or technology, each of which circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may engage in future acquisitions of businesses or assets that could dilute our shareholders and cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. As part of our strategy, we may from time to time review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer us growth opportunities. In the event of any future acquisitions, we potentially might take any or all of the following actions: •pay amounts of cash to acquire assets or businesses; •issue stock that would dilute current shareholders' percentage ownership; •incur debt; and/or •assume liabilities. Such acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including the following: •problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products or integration of new personnel; •the incurrence of substantial transaction costs to effect such acquisitions; •the incurrence of unanticipated costs in completing such acquisitions or in inheriting unforeseen liabilities and expenses of acquired businesses; •diversion of management's attention from our core business; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and 19 Table of Contents •potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. For example, in December 2008 we acquired from privately-held Servo Software Inc., for cash, assets associated with Servo Software's db4o open source database solution for the embedded device market. We acquired these assets with the objective of expanding our product line and obtaining access to new customers and additional revenue opportunities. However this acquisition continues to be subject to many of the risks of acquisitions outlined above, including the fact that this product may generate losses for future fiscal periods and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the db4o business employees are located in many different countries, and thus, we face additional challenges in integrating these new personnel and retaining them. The loss of any of the db4o team members who joined us following the acquisition could adversely affect our business and financial objectives for this acquisition and result in additional costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the db4o business or any other businesses, products or technologies that we might purchase in the future. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market may be perceived as a negative by investors and may adversely affect the liquidity and trading price of our common stock. We may be unable to list our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market System, or NGMS. Charges to earnings resulting from our acquisition of businesses or assets may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we account for our merger with Poet, our acquisition of FastObjects, Inc. and our fiscal 2009 acquisition of the db4o assets of Servo Software using the purchase method of accounting, which result in charges to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Under the purchase method of accounting, we have allocated the total estimated purchase price of Poet, FastObjects and db4o to net tangible assets and amortizable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the respective dates of the closing of these acquisitions, and recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. We will incur additional amortization expense over the useful lives of certain intangible assets acquired in connection with these acquisitions, which will extend into future fiscal years. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets is impaired we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. Such amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. Our stock price is volatile. Our revenues, operating results and stock price have historically been and may continue to be subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. We have previously experienced revenues and earnings results that were significantly below levels expected by investors, which have had an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. This may occur again in the future. Additionally, as a significant portion of our revenues are often realized late in a fiscal quarter, we may not be aware of any revenues shortfall until late in a quarter, which, when announced, could result in an even more immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we have a relatively smaller number of holders of our stock and the market for our common stock is characterized by relatively small sales volumes, which contributes to the volatility of our stock price and its sensitivity to larger trades of stock. In December 2008, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program under which the Company repurchased $3.2 million worth of our outstanding common shares. In November 2009, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program pursuant to which the Company is authorized to potentially repurchase up to $5.0 million of its common stock in fiscal year 2010. Repurchases of our shares will reduce the number of our outstanding common shares and might incrementally increase the potential for volatility in our stock by reducing the potential volumes at which our common shares may trade in the public markets. 20 Table of Contents The Company may face risks associated with the trend of increased shareholder activism. Publicly traded companies have increasingly become subject to campaigns by investors seeking to increase short-term shareholder value by advocating corporate actions such as financial restructuring, increased borrowing, special dividends, stock repurchases or even sales of assets or the entire company. Given the Company's market capitalization and other factors, it is possible that shareholders may in the future attempt to effect such changes or acquire control over the Company. Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders would be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters Redwood City, California, is located near major earthquake faults. The ultimate impact on us and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. Losses and interruptions could also be caused by earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics such as the recent flu outbreak and other natural or manmade disasters. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 