ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company describes below the most significant of these risks and uncertainties. These should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Additional risks that are not currently considered material may also have an adverse effect on the Company. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Before making an investment decision investors should carefully consider the specific risks detailed in this section and other risks facing the Company including, among others, those certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified herein by management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” Part II, Item 6 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Company’s cautionary statements as to “Forward-Looking Statements” contained therein. Risks Related to Our Business The Bank was issued a regulatory order from the FDIC and the DCFS which prohibits the Bank from paying dividends to the Company without the consent of the FDIC and the DFCS and places other limitations and obligations on the Bank. On August 27, 2009, the Bank entered into an agreement with the FDIC, its principal federal banking regulator, and the DFCS which requires the Bank to take certain measures to improve its safety and soundness (the “Order”). Under the Order, the Bank is required to take certain measures to improve its capital position, maintain liquidity ratios, reduce its level of non-performing assets, reduce its loan concentrations in certain portfolios, improve management practices and board supervision, and to assure that its reserve for loan losses is maintained at an appropriate level. Among the corrective actions required are for the Bank to develop and adopt a plan to maintain the minimum capital requirements for a “well capitalized” bank, including a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10.00% at the Bank level beginning 150 days from the issuance of the Order. As of December 31, 2010 the requirement relating to increasing the Bank’s Tier 1 leverage ratio had not been met. However, as a result of the Capital Raise, as of the date of this report, the Bank’s pro forma Tier 1 leverage ratio is 11.97%, which meets the requirements for a “well-capitalized” bank under the Order. The Order further requires the Bank to ensure that the level of the reserve for loan losses is maintained at appropriate levels to safeguard the book value of the Bank’s loans and leases, and to reduce the amount of classified loans as of the ROE to no more than 75.00% of capital. As of December 31, 2010, the requirement that the amount of classified loans as of the ROE be reduced to no more than 75.00% of capital had not been met. However, as of the date of this report, the Bank has met this requirement of the Order. In addition, as required by the Order, all assets classified as “Loss” in the ROE have been charged-off. The Bank has also developed and implemented a process for the review and approval of all applicable asset disposition plans. Pursuant to the Order, the Bank must also maintain a primary liquidity ratio (net cash, net short-term and marketable assets divided by net deposits and short-term liabilities) of at least 15.00%. At December 31, 2010, the Bank’s primary liquidity ratio was 23.34%. In addition, pursuant to the Order, the Bank must retain qualified management and must notify the FDIC and the DFCS in writing when it proposes to add any individual to its Board or to employ any new senior executive officer. Under the Order, the Bank’s Board must also increase its participation in the affairs of the Bank, assuming full responsibility for the approval of sound policies and objectives and for the supervision of all the Bank’s activities. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Although the Company successfully completed the Capital Raise on January 28, 2011, the Order has not been lifted by the FDIC and DFCS and, therefore, the restrictions of the Order remain in place. These restrictions include restrictions on the Bank’s ability to take certain actions without the consent of the FDIC and the DFCS, including paying cash dividends. There can be no assurances that the Order will be lifted in a timely manner, or at all. On October 26, 2009, the Company entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank (the “FRB”) and DFCS (the “Written Agreement”), which requires the Bank to take certain measures to improve its safety and soundness. Under the Written Agreement, the Bank is required to develop and submit for approval, a plan to maintain sufficient capital at the Company and the Bank within 60 days of the date of the Written Agreement. The Company submitted a strategic plan on October 28, 2009, and as of December 31, 2010 and through the date of this report, management believes that the Company is in compliance with the terms of the Written Agreement. The Company may continue to be adversely affected by current economic and market conditions. The Company’s business is closely tied to the economies of Idaho and Oregon in general and is particularly affected by the economies of Central, Southern and Northwest Oregon, as well as the Greater Boise, Idaho area. Since mid-2007, the country has experienced a significant economic downturn. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been negatively impacted and local governments, and many businesses are being challenged due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly in Idaho and Oregon, and may remain elevated for some time. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates. The current downturn in the economy and declining real estate values has had a direct and adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations for the Company. This is particularly evident in the residential land development and residential construction segments of the Bank’s loan portfolio. Developers or home builders whose cash flows are dependent on sale of lots or completed residences have experienced reduced ability to service their loan obligations and the market value of underlying collateral has decreased dramatically. The impact on the Company has been an elevated level of impaired loans, an associated increase in provisioning expense and charge-offs for the Company, leading to a net loss for 2008, 2009 and 2010. During 2010, the level of impaired loans declined, as did the pace of charge-offs and provisioning expense leading to a smaller net loss for the year ended December 31, 2010. However, no assurance can be given that such trends will continue. The Company has a significant concentration in real estate lending. The sustained downturn in real estate within the Company’s markets has had and is expected to continue to have a negative impact on the Company. Approximately 73.00% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2010 consisted of loans secured by real estate located in Oregon and Idaho. Declining real estate values and a severe constriction in the availability of mortgage financing have negatively impacted real estate sales, which has resulted in customers’ inability to repay loans. In addition, the value of collateral underlying such loans has decreased materially. During 2008, 2009 and 2010, the Company experienced significant increases in non-performing assets relating to its real estate lending, primarily in its residential real estate portfolio. The Company will experience a further increase in non-performing assets if more borrowers fail to perform according to loan terms and if the Company takes possession of real estate properties. Additionally, if real estate values continue to further decline, the value of real estate collateral securing the Company’s loans could be significantly reduced. If any of these effects continue or become more pronounced, loan losses will increase more than the Company expects and the Company’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. In addition, the Bank’s loans in other real estate portfolios including commercial construction and commercial real estate have experienced and are expected to continue to experience reduced cash flow and reduced collateral value. Approximately 55.00% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2010, consisted of loans secured by commercial real estate. Nationally, delinquencies in these types of portfolios are 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS increasing significantly. While the Company’s portfolios of these types of loans have not been as adversely impacted as residential loans, there can be no assurance that the credit quality in these portfolios will not decrease significantly and may result in losses that exceed the estimates that are currently included in the reserve for credit losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial conditions and results of operations. The Company may be required to make further increases to its reserve for credit losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company maintains a reserve for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The reserve, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the reserve reflects management’s continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the reserve for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the reserve for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on the Company’s reserve for loan losses. Generally, the Company’s non-performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy of the markets the Company serves. If real estate markets deteriorate further, the Company expects it that it may continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. While economic conditions have stabilized on a national level, conditions could worsen, potentially resulting in higher delinquencies and credit losses. There can be no assurance that the reserve for credit losses will be sufficient to cover actual loan related losses or that the Company’s regulators will not require the Company to make further increases to the Company’s reserve for loan losses. Additional provision for loan losses or charge-off of loans could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s reserve for credit losses may not be adequate to cover future loan losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. The Company maintains a reserve for credit losses in an amount that the Company believes is adequate to provide for losses inherent in our portfolio. While the Company strives to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become non-performing, at any time there are loans in the portfolio that could result in losses that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem loans. Estimation of the allowance requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of loans in the Company’s loan portfolio. These assumptions and judgments include historical loan loss experience, current credit profiles of our borrowers, adverse situations that have occurred that may affect a borrower’s ability to meet its financial obligations, the estimated value of underlying collateral and general economic conditions. Determining the appropriateness of the reserve is complex and requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company cannot be certain that it will be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become non-performing assets, or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that have been identified. As a result, future increases to the reserve for credit losses may be necessary. Additionally, future increases to the reserve for credit losses may be required based on changes in the composition of the loans comprising our loan portfolio, deteriorating values in underlying collateral (most of which consists of real estate in the markets we serve) and changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as those that may result from changes in economic conditions, or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the reserve for credit loss. Additionally, banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the Company’s reserve for credit losses. Our regulators may require the Company to increase its reserve for credit losses in the future which could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our primary funding source is commercial and retail deposits of our customers, brokered deposits, advances from the FHLB, FRB discount window and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although the Company has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future depending on adverse results of operations, financial condition or capital ratings or regulatory restrictions. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. At the onset of the economic downturn in 2007 and through 2008 and early 2009, core deposits declined because customers in general experienced reduced funds available for core deposits. As a result, the amount of our wholesale funding increased. The Company has established a significant liquidity reserve as of December 31, 2010; however, our ability to borrow or attract and retain deposits in the future could be adversely affected by our financial condition, regulatory restrictions, or impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as FDIC insurance changes including the expiration of TAG program, or further disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the banking industry. The Company is presently restricted from accepting additional brokered deposits, including the Bank’s reciprocal Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (“CDARs”) program. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had no outstanding brokered deposits. The Bank’s primary counterparty for borrowing purposes is the FHLB, and liquid assets are mainly balances held at the FRB. Available borrowing capacity has been reduced as we drew on our available sources. Borrowing capacity from the FHLB or FRB may fluctuate based upon the condition of the Bank or the acceptability and risk rating of loan collateral, and counterparties could adjust discount rates applied to such collateral at their discretion, and the FRB or FHLB could restrict or limit our access to secured borrowings. As with many community banks, correspondent banks have withdrawn unsecured lines of credit or now require collateralization for the purchase of fed funds on a short-term basis due to the present adverse economic environment. In addition, collateral pledged against public deposits held at the Bank has been increased under Oregon law to more than 110.00% of such balances. The Bank is a public depository and, accordingly, accepts deposit funds that belong to, or are held for the benefit of, the State of Oregon, political subdivisions thereof, municipal corporations and other public funds. In accordance with applicable state law, in the event of default of one bank, all participating banks in the state collectively assure that no loss of funds is suffered by any public depositor. Generally, in the event of default by a public depository, the assessment attributable to all public depositories is allocated on a pro rata basis in proportion to the maximum liability of each public depository as it existed on the date of loss. The maximum liability is dependent upon potential changes in regulations, bank failures and the level of public fund deposits, all of which cannot be presently determined. Liquidity also may be affected by the Bank’s routine commitments to extend credit. These circumstances have the effect of reducing secured borrowing capacity. There can be no assurance that our sources of funds will remain adequate for our liquidity needs, and we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. There can be no assurance that additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms to provide necessary liquidity, our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Real estate values may continue to decrease leading to additional and greater than anticipated loan charge-offs and valuation write downs on our other real estate owned (“OREO”) properties. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO” property. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for many of our loans as part of our business. At December 31, 2010, we had OREO with a carrying value of $39.5 million relating to loans originated in the raw land and land development portfolio and to a lesser extent, other loan portfolios. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses, as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. We expect that our earnings in 2011 will continue to be 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with OREO assets. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties to the lesser of book or appraised value; net of selling costs. Any decrease in market prices may lead to OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations. Further write-downs on OREO or an inability to sell OREO properties could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The banking industry and the Company operate under certain regulatory requirements which undergo frequent and often significant changes and that are expected to further impair our revenues, operating income and financial condition. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by the DFCS, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve. The regulations affect the Company’s and the Bank’s investment practices, lending activities, and dividend policy, among other things. Moreover, federal and state banking laws and regulations undergo frequent and often significant changes and have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. Changes to these laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could, among other things, make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for the Company, could limit the products the Company and the Bank can offer or increase the ability of non-banks to compete and could adversely affect the Company in significant but unpredictable ways which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Our compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, access to capital and brokered deposits and locations of banking offices. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in fines, penalties, sanctions and damage to the Company’s reputation which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. The Bank’s deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. Either an increase in the risk category of the Bank, adjustments to the base assessment rates, and/or a significant special assessment could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s earnings In February 27, 2009, the FDIC issued final rules revising the way the FDIC calculates federal deposit insurance assessment rates. Under the new rule, the initial base assessment rate will range, depending on the risk category of the institution, from 12 to 45 basis points and the total base assessment rate will range from 7 to 77.5 basis points of the institution’s deposits. Additionally, on May 22, 2009, the FDIC announced a final rule allowing the FDIC to impose special emergency assessments, of up to 5 basis points per quarter, if necessary to maintain public confidence in FDIC insurance. These higher FDIC assessment rates and special assessments will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The Company is unable to predict the impact in future periods; including whether and when additional special assessments will occur. The Company also participates in the TLGP for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts which runs through December 31, 2013. Beginning in 2010, participants were assessed at an annual rate of between 15 and 25 basis points on the amounts in the guaranteed accounts in excess of the amounts covered by the FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLGP assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLGP program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLGP program upon depository institution holding companies as well. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. On August 3, 2010, the Company determined that it would restate its audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily related to the reserve for loan losses and loan loss provision. The restatement related to an examination by banking regulators of the Bank that commenced on March 15, 2010 and involves the reserve for loan losses and loan loss provision. In connection with the examination, the regulators provided additional information to the Company on July 29, 2010 which resulted in management refining and enhancing its model for calculating the reserve for loan losses by considering an expanded scope of information and augmenting the qualitative and judgmental factors used to estimate potential losses inherent in the loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, management has refined and enhanced its model for calculating the reserve for loan losses by considering an expanded scope of information, modifying its calculation of historical loss factors, and augmenting the qualitative and judgmental factors used to estimate losses inherent in the loan portfolio. However, a sufficient period of time subsequent to December 31, 2010 has not yet elapsed to provide the required remediation evidence that the revised controls were operating effectively. There can be no assurance that our internal controls and procedures will not fail or be circumvented in the future. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company. The Company’s earnings are highly dependent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to the market interest rates may impact the level of loans, deposits and investments, and the credit quality of existing loans. These rates may be affected by many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general and economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact the Company’s ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The financial services business is intensely competitive and our success will depend on our ability to compete effectively. The Company faces competition for its services from a variety of competitors. The Company’s future growth and success depends on its ability to compete effectively. The Company competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous financial service providers including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies. To the extent these competitors have less regulatory constraints, lower cost structures, or increased economies of scale they may be able to offer a greater variety of products and services or more favorable pricing for such products and services. Improvements in technology, communications and the internet have intensified competition. As a result, the Company’s competitive position could be weakened, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies on its computer information systems in the conduct of its business. The Company has policies and procedures in place to protect against and reduce the occurrences of failures, interruptions, or breaches of security of these systems, however, there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will eliminate the occurrence of failures, interruptions or breaches of security or that they will adequately restore or minimize any such events. The occurrence of a failure, interruption or breach of security of the Company’s computer information systems could result in a loss of information, business or regulatory scrutiny, or other events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS We continually encounter technological change. Frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services in the financial services industry result in the need for rapid technological change. In addition, the effective use of technology may result in improved customer service and reduced costs. The Company’s future success depends, to a certain extent, on its ability to identify the needs of our customers and address those needs by using technology to provide the desired products and services and to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Certain competitors may have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to successfully implement new technology-driven products and services or to effectively market these products and services to our customers. Failure to implement the necessary technological changes could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Cascade Bancorp relies on dividends from the Bank. Cascade Bancorp is a separate legal entity from the Bank and substantially all of our revenues are derived from Bank dividends. These dividends may be limited by certain federal and state laws and regulations. In addition, any distribution of assets of the Bank upon a liquidation or reorganization would be subject to the prior liens of the Bank’s creditors. Because of the elevated credit risk and associated losses incurred in 2008, 2009 and 2010, regulators have required the Company to seek permission prior to payment of dividends on common stock or on any Trust Preferred Securities. In addition, pursuant to the Order, the Bank is required to seek permission prior to payment of cash dividends on its common stock. The Company cut its dividend to zero in the fourth quarter of 2008 and deferred payments on its Trust Preferred Securities beginning in the second quarter of 2009. We do not expect the Bank to pay dividends to Cascade Bancorp for the foreseeable future. Cascade Bancorp does not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Cascade Bancorp in the future, Cascade Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends on its stock or pay interest on its debt, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to attract or retain key banking employees. We expect our future success to be driven in large part by the relationships maintained with our clients by our executives and senior lending officers. We have entered into employment agreements with several members of senior management. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily ensure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. The Company strives to attract and retain key banking professionals, management and staff. Competition to attract the best professionals in the industry can be intense which will limit the Company’s ability to hire new professionals. Banking related revenues and net income could be adversely affected in the event of the unexpected loss of key personnel. The value of certain securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. The Company’s investment portfolio securities are mainly mortgage backed securities guaranteed by government sponsored enterprises such as FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC and FHLB, or otherwise backed by FHA/VA guaranteed loans; however, volatility or illiquidity in financial markets may cause certain investment securities held within our investment portfolio to become less liquid. This coupled with the uncertainty surrounding the credit risk associated with the underlying collateral or guarantors may cause material discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. Volatile market conditions may affect the value of securities through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, equity, and capital ratios. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. Recent legislative and required regulatory initiatives will impose restrictions and requirements on financial institutions that could have an adverse effect on our business. The United States Congress, the Treasury Department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have taken several steps to support the financial services industry that have included certain well publicized programs, such as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, as well as programs enhancing the liquidity available to financial institutions and increasing insurance available on bank deposits. These programs have provided an important source of support to many financial institutions. Partly in response to these programs and the current economic climate, the President signed on July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. Few provisions of the Act are effective immediately with various provisions becoming effective in stages. Many of the provisions require governmental agencies to implement rules over the next 18 months. These rules will increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. These rules will, as examples, impact the ability of financial institutions to charge certain banking and other fees, allow interest to be paid on demand deposits, impose new restrictions on lending practices and require depository institution holding companies to maintain capital levels at levels not less than the levels required for insured depository institutions. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation. Compliance with such legislation or regulation may, among other effects, significantly increase our costs, limit our product offerings and operating flexibility, require significant adjustments in our internal business processes, and possibly require us to maintain our regulatory capital at levels above historical practices. Tax limitations applicable to the January 28, 2011 Capital Raise could result in permanent impairment of a material portion of deferred tax assets and/or limit deductibility of certain losses in the future. Additional and complex tax regulations may be applicable as a result of the Capital Raise. Depending on analysis and application of such tax matters, impairment of a substantial portion of the allowance for deferred tax assets could become permanently impaired. Additionally, deductibility of certain charges or valuation adjustments could be limited. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 