ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company describes below the most significant of these risks and uncertainties. These should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Additional risks that are not currently considered material may also have an adverse effect on the Company. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Before making an investment decision investors should carefully consider the specific risks detailed in this section and other risks facing the Company including, among others, those certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified herein by management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and other risks described in this Form 10-K, the information in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” Part II, Item 6 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Company’s cautionary statements as to “Forward-Looking Statements” contained therein. Risks Related to Our Business The Bank was issued a regulatory order from the FDIC and the DCFS which prohibits the Bank from paying dividends to the Company without the consent of the FDIC and the DCFS and places other limitations and obligations on the Bank. On August 27, 2009, the Bank entered into an agreement with the FDIC, its principal federal banking regulator, and the DFCS which requires the Bank to take certain measures to improve its safety and soundness. In connection with this agreement, the Bank stipulated to the issuance by the FDIC and the DFCS of a regulatory order against the Bank based on certain findings from an examination of the Bank conducted in February 2009 based upon financial and lending data measured as of December 31, 2008 (the “Order”). In entering into the stipulation and consenting to entry of the order, the Bank did not concede the findings or admit to any of the assertions therein. Under the Order, the Bank is required to take certain measures to improve its capital position, maintain liquidity ratios, reduce its level of non-performing assets, reduce its loan concentrations in certain portfolios, improve management practices and board supervision and to assure that its Reserve for Loan Losses is maintained at an appropriate level. While the Bank successfully completed several of the measures under the Order as of December 31, 2009, it was unable to implement certain measures in the time frame provided, particularly those related to raising capital levels. Among the corrective actions required are for the Bank to develop and adopt a plan to maintain the minimum capital requirements for a “well-capitalized” bank, including a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10% at the Bank level beginning 150 days from the issuance of the Order. As of December 31, 2009 and through the date of this report, the requirement relating to increasing the Bank’s Tier 1 leverage ratio has not been met. In addition, pursuant to the Order, the Bank must retain qualified management and must notify the FDIC and the DFCS in writing when it proposes to add any individual to its board of directors or to employ any new senior executive officer. Under the Order the Bank’s board of directors must also increase its participation in the affairs of the Bank, assuming full responsibility for the approval of sound policies and objectives and for the supervision of all the Bank’s activities. The Order further requires the Bank to ensure the level of the reserve for loan losses is maintained at appropriate levels to safeguard the book value of the Bank’s loans and leases, and to reduce the amount of classified loans as of the date of the Order to no more than 75% of capital. As of December 31, 2009 and through the date of this report, the requirement that the amount of classified loans as of the date of the Order be reduced to no more than 75% of capital has not been met. However, as required by the Order, all assets classified as “Loss” in the Bank’s report of examination from February 2009 (the “ROE”) have been charged-off. The Bank has also developed and implemented a process for the review and approval of all applicable asset disposition plans. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Order restricts the Bank from taking certain actions without the consent of the FDIC and the DFCS, including paying cash dividends, and from extending additional credit to certain types of borrowers. The Order further requires the Bank to maintain a primary liquidity ratio (net cash, net short-term and marketable assets divided by net deposits and short-term liabilities) of at least 15%. The Bank was required to implement these measures under various time frames, all of which have expired. While the Bank successfully completed several of the measures, it was unable to implement certain measures in the time frame provided, particularly those related to raising capital levels. In order for the Bank to meet the 10% capital requirement of the Order, as of December 31, 2009, the Bank is targeting a minimum of approximately $150 million of additional equity capital. The economic environment in our market areas and the duration of the downturn in the real estate market will continue to have a significant impact on the implementation of the Bank’s business plans. While the Company plans to continue its efforts to aggressively pursue and evaluate opportunities to raise capital, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful or that the Bank’s plans to achieve objectives set forth in the Order will successfully improve the Bank’s results of operation or financial condition or result in the termination of the Order from the FDIC and the DFCS. In addition, failure to increase capital levels consistent with the requirements of the Order could result in further enforcement actions by the FDIC and/or DFCS or the placing of the Bank into conservatorship or receivership. On October 26, 2009, the Company entered into a written agreement with the FRB and DFCS (the “Written Agreement”), which requires the Company to take certain measures to improve its safety and soundness. Under the Written Agreement, the Company is required to develop and submit for approval, a plan to maintain sufficient capital at the Company and the Bank within 60 days of the date of the Written Agreement. The Company submitted a strategic plan on October 28, 2009 and as of December 31, 2009 and through the date of this report the Company is in compliance with the terms of the Written Agreement with the exception of requirements tied to or dependent upon execution of a capital raise. We have failed to comply with certain provisions of our regulatory order. The Order to which the Bank is subject requires, among other obligations described elsewhere in this report, that we increase our regulatory capital and reduce our troubled assets. Our obligation to increase regulatory capital was subject to a deadline of January 26, 2010. As of the date of this report, we have been unable to raise capital or achieve this goal by other means. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios were 2.40%, 3.18% and 6.35%, respectively, and the Bank’s Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios were 4.69%, 6.20% and 7.46%, respectively, which do not meet regulatory benchmarks for “adequately-capitalized”. Regulatory benchmarks for an “adequately-capitalized” designation are 4%, 4% and 8% for Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital, respectively; “well-capitalized” benchmarks are 5%, 6%, and 10% for Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital, respectively. However, as mentioned above, pursuant to the Order, the Bank is required to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10% to be considered “well-capitalized.” We can provide no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital in the foreseeable future given the present condition of financial markets. If we fail to raise additional capital or take other measures that will cause our regulatory capital levels to increase, regulators may take additional measures that could include receivership or a forced divestiture of our assets and deposits. Any such measures, if taken, may have a material adverse effect upon the value of our common stock. Because of our condition and uncertainties as to the implementation of management plans there is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared based upon the Company’s judgment that the Company will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects that may result from the outcome of various uncertainties as discussed below. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS The effects of the severe economic contraction caused the Company to incur net losses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The Company and the Bank do not currently meet the definition of an “adequately capitalized institution” and are thus operating under significant regulatory restrictions including a requirement to achieve certain capital requirements, enhance liquidity and improve the credit quality of the Bank’s assets (see Note 21). In response, the Company has implemented plans to meet the requirements of the August 27, 2009 agreement with the FDIC, its principal federal banking regulator, and the DFCS which requires the Bank to take certain measures to improve its safety and soundness (the Order) including an ongoing effort to raise capital. Additional plans and actions to preserve existing capital and to conserve liquidity include (1) improve asset quality and reduce non performing asset totals; (2) reduce loan portfolio totals and thereby reduce required capital; (3) retain core deposits while reducing brokered deposits; and (4) continued reduction of discretionary expenses. Based upon its plans and expectations management believes the Company has sufficient capital and liquidity to achieve realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. However, uncertainties exist as to future economic conditions and regulatory actions, and the successful implementation of plans to improve the Company’s financial condition and meet the requirements of the Order. These uncertainties raise doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the lack of success in implementing its plans or the occurrence of other events that could adversely affect its condition or operations. The Company expects to continue to be adversely affected by current economic and market conditions. The Company’s business is closely tied to the economies of Idaho and Oregon in general and is particularly affected by the economies of Central, Southern and Northwest Oregon, as well as the Greater Boise, Idaho area. Since mid-2007 the country has experienced a significant economic downturn. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been negatively impacted and local governments and many businesses are being challenged due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly in Idaho and Oregon, and may remain elevated for some time. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates. The current downturn in the economy and declining real estate values have had a direct and adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations for the Company. This is particularly evident in the residential land development and residential construction segments of the Bank’s loan portfolio. Developers or home builders whose cash flows are dependent on sale of lots or completed residences have experienced reduced ability to service their loan obligations and the market value of underlying collateral has decreased dramatically. The impact on the Company has been an elevated level of impaired loans, an associated increase in provisioning expense and charge-offs for the Company, leading to a net loss for 2008 and 2009. It is expected that the level of provisioning expense and charge-offs will significantly decrease in 2010 as compared to 2009. In order to reduce our exposure in the residential land development and residential construction development category of loans the Company has formalized collateral valuation practices to ensure timely recognition of asset collateral support, redefined the roles and responsibility of key credit risk officers to focus on problem portfolios, designed and executed multiple stress test scenarios to identify problem assets and potential problem assets and initiated weekly asset review on residential land development and residential construction development problem assets. The Company has also improved documentation standards to verify borrower’s financial condition and collateral values, improved management information systems and internal controls to track performance and value of such portfolios, created a Special Assets Group to manage and monitor the residential land development and residential construction development portfolio and created an oversight committee to review resolution and sales of the construction/lot/land development portfolio. In addition, the Company has significantly reduced loan limits in the portfolio. On August 25, 2009, the Company replaced its Chief Credit Officer, and we have hired an Other Real Estate Owned specialist. The Company continues to re-evaluate and re-appraise the properties in the 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS residential land development and residential construction development portfolio on a frequent basis, and to track sales for contingent properties to monitor sales values. In addition, the Company has aggressively collected on guarantees and improved overall collection procedures. The Company has also aggressively pursued portfolio exposure reduction through active curtailment of additional advances on existing facilities when able and proactively recognized and resolved problem exposures through, among other things, write-offs, write-downs, and note sales. The Company also established clear guidance on asset concentration targets as a percentage of capital for the residential land development and residential construction development category of loans which we expect will result in much lower exposure in the future. In 2009 deposits stabilized and together with loan reductions enabled the Company to build a substantial contingent liquidity reserve. However, the Company’s condition, regulatory restrictions and ongoing economic uncertainty may affect deposit resources and access to borrowings in the future. These conditions may also increase the Company’s need for additional capital which may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. The banking industry and the Company operate under certain regulatory requirements that are expected to further impair our revenues, operating income and financial condition. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by the DFCS, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve. Our compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, access to capital and brokered deposits and locations of banking offices. If we are unable to meet these regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The Company has a significant concentration in real estate lending. The sustained downturn in real estate within the Company’s markets has had and is expected to continue to have a negative impact on the Company. Approximately 70% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2009 consisted of loans secured by real estate located in Oregon and Idaho. Declining real estate values and a severe constriction in the availability of mortgage financing have negatively impacted real estate sales, which has resulted in customers’ inability to repay loans. In addition, the value of collateral underlying such loans has decreased materially. During 2008 and 2009, we experienced significant increases in non-performing assets relating to our real estate lending, primarily in our residential real estate portfolio. We will see a further increase in non-performing assets if more borrowers fail to perform according to loan terms and if we take possession of real estate properties. Additionally, if real estate values continue to further decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. If any of these effects continue or become more pronounced, loan losses will increase more than we expect and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. In addition, the Bank’s loans in other real estate portfolios including commercial construction and commercial real estate have experienced and are expected to continue to experience reduced cash flow and reduced collateral value. Approximately 44% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2009 consisted of loans secured by commercial real estate. Nationally, delinquencies in these types of portfolios are increasing significantly. While our portfolios of these types of loans have not been as adversely impacted as residential loans, there can be no assurance that the credit quality in these portfolios will not decrease significantly and may result in losses that exceed the estimates that are currently included in the reserve for credit losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial conditions and results of operations. See also “Financial Condition — Loan Portfolio and Credit Quality” in Item 6 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this report for further information. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company may be required to make further increases to its reserve for credit losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The Company maintains a reserve for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the reserve for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan losses. Generally, our non-performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy of the markets we serve. Our reserve for loan losses was 23.2% and 29.6% of NPAs at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. If real estate markets deteriorate further, we expect that we may continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. While economic conditions have stabilized on a national level, conditions could worsen, potentially resulting in higher delinquencies and credit losses. There can be no assurance that the reserve for credit losses will be sufficient to cover actual loan related losses. Representatives of the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the DFCS, our principal regulators, have publicly expressed concerns about the banking industry’s lending practices and have particularly noted concerns about real estate-secured lending. Further, state and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and our allowance for loan losses. Additional provision for loan losses or charge-off of loans could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. See also “Financial Condition — Loan Portfolio and Credit Quality” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this report. The Company’s reserve for credit losses may not be adequate to cover future loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. The Company maintains a reserve for credit losses in an amount that we believe is adequate to provide for losses inherent in our portfolio. While we strive to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become non-performing, at any time there are loans in the portfolio that could result in losses that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem loans. Estimation of the allowance requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of loans in our portfolio. These assumptions and judgments include historical loan loss experience, current credit profiles of our borrowers, adverse situations that have occurred that may affect a borrower’s ability to meet its financial obligations, the estimated value of underlying collateral and general economic conditions. Determining the appropriateness of the reserve is complex and requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become non-performing assets, or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that have been identified. As a result, future significant increases to the reserve for credit losses may be necessary. Additionally, future increases to the reserve for credit losses may be required based on changes in the composition of the loans comprising our loan portfolio, deteriorating values in underlying collateral (most of which consists of real estate in the markets we serve) and changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as may result from changes in economic conditions, or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the reserve for credit loss. Additionally, banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our reserve for credit losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase the reserve for credit losses which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our primary funding source is commercial and retail deposits of our customers, brokered deposits, advances from the FHLB, FRB discount window and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future depending on adverse results of operations, financial condition or capital ratings or regulatory restrictions. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. At the onset of the economic downturn in 2007 and through 2008 and early 2009 core deposits declined because customers in general experienced reduced funds available for core deposits. As a result, the amount of our wholesale funding increased. Core deposits stabilized in late 2009, and the Company has established a significant liquidity reserve as of December 31, 2009. However our ability to borrow or attract and retain deposits in the future could be adversely affected by our financial condition, regulatory restrictions, or impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as FDIC insurance changes including the expiration of TAG program, or further disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the banking industry. We are presently restricted from accepting additional brokered deposits, including the Bank’s reciprocal Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (CDARs) program. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding brokered deposits totaling $116.5 million, 100% of which will mature in 2010. The Bank’s primary counterparty for borrowing purposes is the FHLB, and liquid assets are mainly balances held at the FRB. Available borrowing capacity has been reduced as we drew on our available sources. Borrowing capacity from the FHLB of Seattle or FRB may fluctuate based upon the condition of the bank or the acceptability and risk rating of loan collateral, and counterparties could adjust discount rates applied to such collateral at their discretion, and the FRB or FHLB of Seattle could restrict or limit our access to secured borrowings. As with many community banks, correspondent banks have withdrawn unsecured lines of credit or now require collateralization for the purchase of fed funds on a short-term basis due to the present adverse economic environment. In addition, collateral pledged against public deposits held at the Bank has been increased under Oregon law to more than 110% of such balances. The Bank is a public depository and, accordingly, accepts deposit funds that belong to, or are held for the benefit of, the State of Oregon, political subdivisions thereof, municipal corporations and other public funds. In accordance with applicable state law, in the event of default of one bank, all participating banks in the state collectively assure that no loss of funds is suffered by any public depositor. Generally in the event of default by a public depository, the assessment attributable to all public depositories is allocated on a pro rata basis in proportion to the maximum liability of each public depository as it existed on the date of loss. The maximum liability is dependent upon potential changes in regulations, bank failures and the level of public fund deposits, all of which cannot be presently determined. Liquidity also may be affected by the Bank’s routine commitments to extend credit. These circumstances have the effect of reducing secured borrowing capacity. There can be no assurance that our sources of funds will remain adequate for our liquidity needs and we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. The Company’s stock price has been negatively affected by the recent adverse economic trend, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms to provide necessary liquidity, our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. The Company is seeking additional capital to improve capital ratios, but capital may not be available when it is needed. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities, including under the obligations placed on the Bank by the Order, to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to offset elevated risks arising from adverse economic conditions, support our business, finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. In that regard, current market conditions and investor uncertainty have made it very challenging for financial institutions in general to raise capital. Market conditions and investor sentiment prevented the Company from raising capital through public and private offerings in the fourth quarter of 2009. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects, in addition to any possible action discussed above, that the FDIC or DFCS could take in connection with a failure to comply with or a violation of the Order. The Company may not be able to obtain such financing or it may be only available on terms that are unfavorable to the Company and its shareholders. In the case of equity financings, dilution to the Company’s shareholders could result and securities issued in such financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the Company’s current shareholders. Under the Company’s articles of incorporation, the Company may issue preferred equity without first obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, debt financing may include covenants that restrict our operations, and interest charges would detract from future earnings Further, in the event additional capital is not available on acceptable terms through available financing sources, the Company may instead take additional steps to preserve capital, including reducing loans outstanding, selling certain assets and increasing loan participations. The Company reduced its dividend to $.01 in the third quarter of 2008, and eliminated its cash dividend at year end 2008 as part of its effort to preserve capital under current adverse economic conditions. There can be no assurance that dividends on our common stock will be paid in the future, and if paid, at what amount. Real estate values may continue to decrease leading to additional and greater than anticipated loan charge-offs and valuation write downs on our other real estate owned (“OREO”) properties. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO” property. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for many of our loans as part of our business. At December 31, 2009, we had OREO with a carrying value of $29.6 million relating to loans originated in the raw land and land development portfolio and to a lesser extent, other loan portfolios. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. We expect that our earnings in 2010 will continue to be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in OREO. Moreover, our ability to sell OREO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to accept large discounts from market value in order to quickly liquidate properties. Any decrease in market prices may lead to OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our statement of operations. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if the results of our evaluations require it. Further write-downs on OREO or an inability to sell OREO properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company is not in compliance with certain continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market. On December 17, 2009, the Company received a notice letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market regarding its non-compliance with Rule 5550(a)(2) of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules with respect to the minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per share. The Company’s common stock has failed to meet the $1.00 minimum bid price for 30 consecutive business days. In accordance with Rule 5810(b) of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, the Company has a 180 calendar day grace period, or until June 15, 2010, to comply with the minimum bid price requirement. To regain compliance, the bid price must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for at least ten consecutive business days prior to June 15, 2010. The Company will continue to evaluate its options with respect to meeting this listing qualification within the time period required. If the Company does not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule by June 15, 2010, NASDAQ will again provide written notification that the Company’s securities are subject to potential delisting. At that time, the Company may appeal the delisting determination to a NASDAQ listing qualifications hearings panel. A delisting of the Company’s common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Bank’s deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. Either an increase in the risk category of the Bank or adjustments to the base assessment rates, and/or a significant special assessment could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000 through December 31, 2013. These developments will cause the premiums assessed on us by the FDIC to increase and will materially increase our noninterest expense. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule that revises the way the FDIC calculates federal deposit insurance assessment rates beginning in the second quarter of 2009. Under the new rule, the FDIC first establishes an institution’s initial base assessment rate. This initial base assessment rate will range, depending on the risk category of the institution, from 12 to 45 basis points. The FDIC will then adjust the initial base assessment (higher or lower) to obtain the total base assessment rate. The adjustments to the initial base assessment rate will be based upon an institution’s levels of unsecured debt, secured liabilities, and certain brokered deposits. The total base assessment rate will range from 7 to 77.5 basis points of the institution’s deposits. Additionally, on May 22, 2009, the FDIC announced a final rule imposing a special emergency assessment as of June 30, 2009, payable September 30, 2009, of 5 basis points on each FDIC insured deposit any institution’s assets, less Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009, but the amount of the assessment is capped at 10 basis points of domestic deposits. The final rule also allows the FDIC to impose additional special emergency assessments on or after September 30, 2009, of up to 5 basis points per quarter, if necessary to maintain public confidence in FDIC insurance. These higher FDIC assessment rates and special assessments will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We are unable to predict the impact in future periods; including whether and when additional special assessments will occur, in the event the economic crisis continues. However, the FDIC has indicated that for now it will not impose additional special assessments but instead is requiring institutions to prepay certain assessments. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay on December 31, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Under the rule, however, the FDIC has the authority to exempt an institution from the prepayment requirements if the FDIC determines that the prepayment would adversely affect the safety and soundness of the institution. The Bank has received an exemption from the prepayment requirements. The Bank will continue to pay its insurance assessments on a quarterly basis. We also participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLGP, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLGP’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee program in 2009 generally paid the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. The guarantee program has been extended through December 31, 2013. Beginning in 2010, participants will be assessed at an annual rate of between 15 and 25 basis points on the amounts in the guaranteed accounts in excess of the amounts covered by the FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLGP assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLGP program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLGP program upon depository institution holding companies as well. These charges, along with the full utilization of our FDIC deposit insurance assessment credit in early 2009, will cause the premiums and TLGP assessments charged by the FDIC to increase. These actions have significantly increased our noninterest expense in 2009 and will likely do so for the foreseeable future. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company. The Company’s earnings are highly dependent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to the market interest rates may impact the level of loans, deposits and investments, and the credit quality of existing loans. These rates may be affected by many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general and economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact the Company’s ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation which undergoes frequent and often significant changes. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state banking authorities which impose requirements and restrictions on the Company’s operations. The regulations affect the Company’s and the Bank’s investment practices, lending activities, and dividend policy, among other things. Moreover, federal and state banking laws and regulations undergo frequent and often significant changes and have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. Changes to these laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could, among other things, make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for the Company, could limit the products the Company and the Bank can offer or increase the ability of non-banks to compete and could adversely affect the Company in significant but unpredictable ways which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws or regulations could result in fines, penalties, sanctions and damage to the Company’s reputation which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. The financial services business is intensely competitive and our success will depend on our ability to compete effectively. The Company faces competition for its services from a variety of competitors. The Company’s future growth and success depends on its ability to compete effectively. The Company competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous financial service providers including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies. To the extent these competitors have less regulatory constraints, lower cost structures, or increased economies of scale they may be able to offer a greater variety of products and services or more favorable pricing for such products and services. Improvements in technology, communications and the internet have intensified competition. As a result, the Company’s competitive position could be weakened, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies on its computer information systems in the conduct of its business. The Company has policies and procedures in place to protect against and reduce the occurrences of failures, interruptions, or breaches of security of these systems, however, there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will eliminate the occurrence of failures, interruptions or breaches of security or that they will adequately restore or minimize any such events. The occurrence of a failure, interruption or breach of security of the Company’s computer information systems could result in a loss of information, business or regulatory scrutiny, or other events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. Frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services in the financial services industry result in the need for rapid technological change. In addition, the effective use of technology may result in improved customer service and reduced costs. The Company’s future success depends, to a certain extent, on its ability to identify the needs of our customers and address those needs by using technology to provide the 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS desired products and services and to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Certain competitors may have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to successfully implement new technology-driven products and services or to effectively market these products and services to our customers. Failure to implement the necessary technological changes could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 9A Controls and Procedures” of this report for a more detailed discussion of our controls and procedures. Cascade Bancorp relies on dividends from the Bank. Cascade Bancorp is a separate legal entity from the Bank and substantially all of our revenues are derived from Bank dividends. These dividends may be limited by certain federal and state laws and regulations. In addition, any distribution of assets of the Bank upon a liquidation or reorganization would be subject to the prior liens of the Bank’s creditors. Because of the elevated credit risk and associated loss incurred in 2008 and 2009, regulators have required the Company to seek permission prior to payment of dividends on common stock or on Trust Preferred Securities. In addition, pursuant to the Order, the Bank is required to seek permission prior to payment of cash dividends on its common stock. The Company cut its dividend to zero in the fourth quarter of 2008 and deferred payments on its Trust Preferred Securities beginning in the second quarter of 2009. We do not expect the Bank to pay dividends to Cascade Bancorp for the foreseeable future. Cascade Bancorp does not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. Cascade Bancorp is unable to pay dividends on its common stock until it pays all accrued payments on its Trust Preferred Securities. As of October 31, 2009, we had $66.5 million of TPS outstanding with a weighted average interest rate of 2.83%. The Company elected to defer payments on its TPS beginning in the second quarter of 2009 and as of October 31, 2009, accrued dividends were $1.38 million. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Cascade Bancorp in the future, Cascade Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends on its stock or pay interest on its debt, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to attract or retain key banking employees. We expect our future success to be driven in large part by the relationships maintained with our clients by our executives and senior lending officers. We have entered into employment agreements with several members of senior management. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily ensure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. The Company strives to attract and retain key banking professionals, management and staff. Competition to attract the best professionals in the industry can be intense which will limit the Company’s ability to hire new professionals. Banking related revenues and net income could be adversely affected in the event of the unexpected loss of key personnel. The value of certain securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. The Company’s investment portfolio securities are mainly mortgage backed securities guaranteed by government sponsored enterprises such as FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC and FHLB, or otherwise backed by FHA/VA guaranteed loans; however, volatility or illiquidity in financial markets may cause certain investment securities held within our investment portfolio to become less liquid. This coupled with the uncertainty surrounding the credit risk associated with the underlying collateral or guarantors may cause material 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. Volatile market conditions may affect the value of securities through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, equity, and capital ratios. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. FNMA is no longer allowing the Bank to sell its mortgages to FNMA and may potentially force the sale of our MSR’s On November 13, 2009, FNMA informed the Bank that as a result of the Bank’s capital ratios falling below contractual requirements the Bank no longer qualified as a FNMA designated mortgage loan seller or servicer and the Bank had until December 31, 2009 to improve its capital ratios to meet FNMA’s requirements. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank had not met such requirements, and, accordingly, FNMA has terminated the Bank’s rights to originate and sell mortgage loans directly to FNMA. In addition, FNMA now has the option to terminate its mortgage servicing agreement with the Bank, upon which occurrence the Bank would no longer be allowed to service FNMA loans in the future. Management is in the process of discussing such issues with FNMA and has been evaluating the prospective impact of this development. Possible outcomes include a reduction of the Company’s mortgage banking and mortgage servicing revenues in the future and sale or forced transfer of its mortgage servicing business to a third-party by FNMA. As a result of the actions by FNMA, the Company anticipates that the majority of mortgage loans originated in future periods will be sold to other third-parties and that the Bank will not retain servicing rights. The Company expects that this may result in a significant decrease to future net mortgage servicing income. Management believes that under the circumstances, FNMA will provide the Company with sufficient time to accomplish an orderly disposition of its MSRs. However, there can be no assurance that FNMA will provide for an orderly process nor that a reduction of mortgage banking revenues or possible impairment of MSRs will not occur. Because the estimated fair value of the Company’s MSRs exceeds book value at December 31, 2009, and because management believes it is unlikely FNMA will preemptively transfer the Company’s MSRs to a third-party, no impairment adjustment has been made in connection with this issue as of December 31, 2009. In addition, no valuation allowance for MSRs was recorded as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 