ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company describes below the most significant of these risks and uncertainties. These should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Additional risks that are not currently considered material may also have an adverse effect on the Company. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Before making an investment decision you should carefully consider the specific risks detailed in this section and other risks facing the Company including, among others, those certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified herein by management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and other risks described in this Form 10-K, the information in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Company’s cautionary statements as to “Forward-Looking Statements” contained therein. Adverse changes in economic growth and vitality in the Company’s banking markets may negatively impact the Company. The Company’s business is closely tied to the economies of Idaho and Oregon in general and is particularly affected by the economies of Central, Southern and Northwest Oregon, as well as the Greater Boise, Idaho area. A sustained economic downturn could effect these local economies, resulting in an adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company has a concentration in real estate lending. A sustained downturn in real estate within the Company’s markets could negatively impact the Company. Many of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate located in Oregon and Idaho. Declining real estate values and fluctuating interest rates may result in customers’ inability to repay loans. See “Loans – Real Estate Loan Concentration” In Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These trends may continue and may result in losses that exceed the estimates that are currently included in the reserve for credit losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial conditions and results of operations. The Company’s reserve for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operation. The Company maintains a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable loan losses inherent in the loan and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. In determining the level of the reserve, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan portfolio. If the Company’s assumptions are incorrect, the reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company establishes its level of reserve for credit losses as a result of management’s continued evaluation of specific credit risks, loan loss experience, quality of the current loan portfolio, loan concentration, economic conditions, regulations, 11 political climate, new information about borrowers, additional problem loans and other factors. See section “Loans – Loan Portfolio Composition” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for detailed description of loan portfolio to which the reserve for credit losses applies. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company. The Company’s earnings are highly dependent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to the market interest rates may impact the level of loans, deposits and investments, and the credit quality of existing loans. These rates may be affected by many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general and economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact the Company’s ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state banking authorities which impose requirements and restrictions on the Company’s operations. The regulations affect the Company’s investment practices, lending activities, and dividend policy, among other things. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could, among other things, make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for the Company, could limit the products the Company can offer or increase the ability of non banks to compete and could adversely affect the Company in significant but unpredictable ways which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws or regulations could result in fines, penalties, sanctions and damage to the Company’s reputation which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. Competition may adversely affect the Company. The Company faces competition for its services from a variety of competitors. The Company’s future growth and success depends on its ability to compete effectively. The Company competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous financial service providers including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies. To the extent these competitors have less regulatory constraints, lower cost structures, or increased economies of scales they may be able to offer a greater variety of products and services or more favorable pricing for such products and services. As a result, the Company’s competitive position could be weakened, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies on its computer information systems in the conduct of its business. The Company has policies and procedures in place to protect against and reduce the occurrences of failures, interruptions, or breaches of security of these systems, however, there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will eliminate the occurrence of failures, interruptions or breaches of security or that they will adequately restore or minimize any such events. The occurrence of a failure, interruption or breach of security of the Company’s computer information systems could result in a loss of information, business or regulatory scrutiny, or other events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. Frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services in the financial services industry result in the need for rapid technological change. In addition, the effective use of technology may result in improved customer service and reduced costs. The Company’s future success depends, to a certain extent, on its ability to identify the needs of our customers and address those needs by using technology to provide the desired products and services and to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Certain competitors may have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to successfully implement new technology-driven products and services or to effectively market these products and services to our customers. Failure to implement the necessary technological changes could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. 12 The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 9A Controls and Procedures.” Bancorp relies on dividends from the Bank. Bancorp is a separate legal entity from the Bank and substantially all of Bancorp’s revenues are derived from Bank dividends. These dividends may be limited by certain federal and state laws and regulations. In addition, any distribution of assets of the Bank upon a liquidation or reorganization would be subject to the prior liens of the Bank’s creditor. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Bancorp, Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends on its stock or pay interest on its debt, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to attract or retain key banking employees. The Company strives to attract and retain key banking professionals, management and staff. Competition to attract the best professionals in the industry can be intense which will limit the Company’s ability to hire new professionals. Banking related revenues and net income could be adversely affected in the event of the unexpected loss of key personnel. The Company has employment agreements with certain key executive officers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 