ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company describes below the most significant of these risks and uncertainties. These should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Detailed discussions of the specific risks outlined in this section and other risks facing the Company are included within this Form 10-K in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Please see the Company’s cautionary statements as to “Forward-Looking Statements” for further description of certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Adverse changes in economic growth and vitality in the Company’s banking markets may negatively impact the Company. The Company’s business is closely tied to the economies of Idaho and Oregon in general and is particularly affected by the economies of Central, Southern and Northwest Oregon, as well as the Greater Boise, Idaho area. A sustained economic downturn could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company has a concentration in real estate lending. A sustained downturn in real estate within the Company’s markets could negatively impact the Company. Many of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate located in Oregon and Idaho. If these locales experience an economic downturn that adversely affects real estate values and customers’ ability to repay, loan losses may exceed the estimates that are currently included in the reserve for loan losses, which could adversely affect financial results and shareholder value. 12 The Company’s reserve for loan losses and unfunded commitments may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operation. The Company maintains a reserve for loan losses to absorb estimated probable loan losses inherent in the loan and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. In determining the level of the reserve, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan portfolio. If the Company’s assumptions are incorrect, the reserve for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The inability to attract or retain key banking employees could adversely affect revenues and net income. The Company strives to attract and retain key banking professionals, management and staff to achieve its growth goals. Banking related revenues and net income could be adversely affected in the event of a loss of key personnel. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company. The Company’s earnings are highly dependent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to the market interest rates may impact the level of loans, deposits and investments, and the credit quality of existing loans. These rates may be affected by many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general and economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact the Company’s ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state banking authorities which impose requirements and restrictions on the Company’s operations. The impact of changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for the Company and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Competition may adversely affect the Company. The Company faces competition for its services from a variety of competitors. The Company’s future growth and success depends on its ability to compete effectively. The Company competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous financial service providers including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies. Competition could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest competitors 13 have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 