ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.There are a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company's control, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company describes below the most significant of these risks and uncertainties in connection with both the Company's business and operations, as well as the proposed merger (the "merger") with Home. These should not be viewed as an all-inclusive list or in any particular order. Additional risks that are not currently considered material may also have an adverse effect on the Company. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Before making an investment decision investors should carefully consider the specific risks detailed in Item 1A; other risks facing the Company identified in this report, including, risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified in this report that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations; the information in Item 1; and the information in Item 7, including the Company’s cautionary statements as to forward-looking statements. 14The merger is subject to certain closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, will result in the merger not being completed, which may cause the prices of Cascade common stock to decline.The merger is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals or waivers and approval of the Company’s stockholders and Home stockholders. If any condition to the merger is not satisfied or waived, to the extent permitted by law, the merger will not be completed. In addition, the Company and Home may terminate the merger agreement under certain circumstances even if the merger agreement is approved by the Company’s stockholders and Home stockholders. If the merger is not completed, the trading price of Cascade common stock may decline to the extent that the current prices reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed. In addition, the Company would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the merger. Additionally, if the merger is not completed, further risks could materialize, which could materially and adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of Cascade.Regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or cannot be met.Before the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, including the merger may be completed, various approvals or waivers must be obtained from bank regulatory authorities. These governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of such approvals or waivers. Such conditions or changes and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals or waivers could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or of imposing additional costs or limitations on Cascade following the merger. The regulatory approvals or waivers may not be received at all, may not be received in a timely fashion or may contain conditions on the completion of the merger that are not anticipated or cannot be met. If the completion of the merger is delayed, including by a delay in receipt of necessary governmental approvals or waivers, the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company may also be materially adversely affected. In addition, in some circumstances, the merger agreement requires Cascade to pay Home a termination fee equal to $8,000,000 if the merger agreement is terminated due to the failure to receive certain required regulatory approvals or waivers.The merger is conditioned on obtaining consents from third parties that may not be obtained or that may contain an unfavorable restriction or condition.Cascade’s obligation to complete the merger is conditioned on, among other things, obtaining certain consents or waivers from third parties doing business with Home. The consents or waivers may not be obtained at all, the consents or waivers may not be obtained in a timely fashion or the terms of the consents or, if obtained, waivers may contain a restriction or condition that would have an adverse effect on the Company.Cascade intends to fund the cash consideration through a stock purchase with the Bank which requires regulatory approval that may not be obtained.Cascade intends to fund the cash consideration and its transaction costs in the merger by completing a stock purchase through the Bank. This stock purchase requires the approval of the DFCS and the FDIC. The DFCS or the FDIC may not approve the stock purchase at all, in a timely manner or with conditions that are not anticipated or cannot be met. In that event, Cascade would have to fund the transactions by other means or restructure the merger in accordance with the merger agreement so that the Bank pays the cash consideration directly to the Home stockholders.Failure of the merger to be completed, the termination of the merger agreement or a significant delay in the completion of the merger could negatively impact Cascade. The merger agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the merger. Those conditions include, among others: (i) approval of the merger agreement by Home stockholders and the Cascade stockholders, (ii) approval of the issuance of the shares of Cascade common stock in connection with the merger by Cascade stockholders, (iii) receipt of requisite regulatory approvals or waivers, (iv) absence of any governmental order or law prohibiting completion of the merger, (v) effectiveness of the registration statement of which this document is a part, (vi) receipt of certain consents of third parties and (vii) Home’s closing tangible net worth is not less than $150,000,000.These conditions to the completion of the merger may not be fulfilled and, accordingly, the merger may not be completed. In addition, if the merger is not completed by June 30, 2014, either Cascade or Home may choose not to proceed with the merger, and the companies can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time, before or after stockholder approval.If the merger is not completed, the ongoing business, financial condition and results of operations of Cascade may be materially adversely affected and the market price of Cascade common stock may decline significantly, particularly to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. If the completion of the merger is delayed, the business, financial condition and results of operations of Cascade may be materially adversely affected.In addition, Cascade has incurred and will incur substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. If the merger is not completed, Cascade would have to recognize these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the transaction. Any of the foregoing, or other risks arising in connection with the failure of or delay in completing the merger, including the diversion of management attention from pursuing other 15opportunities and the constraints in the merger agreement on the ability to make significant changes to Cascade’s ongoing business during the pendency of the merger, could have a material adverse effect on Cascade’s business, financial condition and results of operations.Additionally, Cascade’s business may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the merger, and the market price of Cascade common stock might decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. If the merger agreement is terminated and Cascade seeks another merger or business combination, Cascade’s stockholders cannot be certain that Cascade will be able to find a third party willing to engage in a transaction on more attractive terms than the merger.The issuance of shares of Cascade common stock to Home stockholders in connection with the merger will substantially dilute the voting power of current Cascade stockholders. If the merger is completed, it is anticipated that pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Cascade will issue shares of Cascade common stock to Home stockholders representing a significant portion of the outstanding shares of Cascade common stock as of immediately following the completion of the merger. Accordingly, if the merger is completed, the issuance of shares of Cascade common stock to Home stockholders in connection with the merger will significantly reduce the relative voting power of each share of Cascade common stock held by current Cascade stockholders and consequently Cascade stockholders will have less influence on the management and policies of the Company post-merger than they currently have. Sales of substantial amounts of Cascade common stock in the open market by former Home stockholders could depress Cascade's stock price. Shares of Cascade common stock that are issued to Home stockholders in the merger will be freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. It is currently anticipated that, unless the number of shares of Cascade common stock is adjusted as required by the merger agreement, in the event that the merger is completed Cascade will issue 24,309,066 shares of Cascade common stock in connection with the merger. Consequently, if the merger is completed and if Home’s former stockholders sell substantial amounts of Cascade common stock in the public market following completion of the merger, the market price of Cascade common stock may decrease. These sales might also make it more difficult for Cascade to sell equity or equity-related securities at a time and price that it otherwise would deem appropriate. Combining the two companies may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized. Cascade and Home have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on the successful combination of the businesses of Cascade and Home. To realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, after the completion of the merger, Cascade expects to integrate Home’s business into its own. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the surviving company’s ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger. These transition matters could have an adverse effect on Cascade during the pre-merger period and for an undetermined amount of time after the completion of the merger. In addition, it is also possible that clients, customers, depositors and counterparties of Cascade or Home could choose to discontinue their relationships with the Company after the merger is completed because they prefer doing business with an independent company or for any other reason, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results and the value of its common stock. If Cascade experiences difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Cascade will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending that could adversely affect Cascade’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, customers, suppliers and vendors may have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of Cascade. These uncertainties may impair Cascade’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, depositors and borrowers pending the completion of the merger, as such personnel, depositors and borrowers may experience uncertainty about their future roles following the completion of the merger. Additionally, these uncertainties could cause customers (including depositors and borrowers), suppliers, vendors and others who deal with Cascade to seek to change existing business relationships with the companies or fail to extend an existing relationship with Cascade. In addition, competitors may target Cascade's existing customers by highlighting potential uncertainties and integration difficulties that may result from the merger. Cascade has a small number of key personnel. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration may place a burden on the Company’s management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from 16ongoing business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the merger agreement restricts each company from taking certain actions without the other company’s consent while the merger is pending. These restrictions may prevent Cascade from issuing securities, incurring indebtedness (other than in connection with the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, drawing on Cascade’s existing credit facility or indebtedness incurred by the Bank) or taking other significant actions. These restrictions could have a material adverse effect on Cascade's business, financial condition and results of operations. If the merger is completed, Cascade expects to incur substantial expenses related to the merger that could adversely affect its business after the merger. Cascade expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with completion of the merger and combining its business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures with those of Home. Although Cascade has assumed that a certain level of transaction and combination expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of our expenses. Many of our expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Due to these factors, the transaction and combination expenses associated with the merger could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that Cascade expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the combination of the businesses following the completion of the merger. As a result of these expenses, Cascade expects to take charges against their earnings before and after the completion of the merger. The charges taken in connection with the merger are expected to be significant, although the aggregate amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. Pending litigation against Home and its directors could result in an injunction preventing the completion of the merger or a judgment resulting in the payment of damages in the event the merger is completed and may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows following the merger. In connection with the merger, purported Home stockholders have filed a putative stockholder class action and derivative lawsuit against Home and its directors. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the merger. The outcome of any such litigation is uncertain. If a dismissal is not granted or a settlement is not reached, this litigation could prevent or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to Home and Cascade, including any costs associated with the advancement of expenses to and indemnification of Home’s directors and officers. In addition, the litigation may increase Home’s transaction costs or reduce Home’s tangible net worth, which could reduce the value of Home and post-merger Cascade. Plaintiffs may file additional lawsuits against Home, Cascade and/or the directors and officers of either company in connection with the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the merger is completed may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company may be restricted from paying or may determine not to pay dividends.Bancorp is a separate legal entity from the Bank and substantially all of its revenues are derived from the Bank dividends. Oregon law prohibits the Bank from paying dividends to Bancorp unless the Bank has positive retained earnings. The Bank received regulatory approval to adjust retained earnings to zero at September 30, 2012, but the Bank’s payment of dividends will remain constrained under Oregon law by the amount of increases in its retained earnings from that date. In addition, regulators previously have required Bancorp to obtain permission prior to payment of dividends on Cascade common stock and prior to taking a dividend from the Bank. Although such requirements have been terminated, it is possible that regulators may impose the same or similar requirements or limitations on the dividends. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Bancorp in the future, Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends on Cascade common stock or pay its creditors, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Current economic conditions continue to pose significant challenges for the Company and could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company is operating in an uncertain economic environment, including sluggish national and global conditions, accompanied by high unemployment and very low interest rates. Financial institutions continue to be affected by changing conditions in the real estate and financial markets, along with an arduous regulatory climate. Dramatic declines in the housing market in recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. While conditions have improved, a return to a recessionary economy could result in financial stress on the Company’s borrowers that would adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may also face the following risks in connection with events:•Ineffective monetary policy could cause rapid changes in interest rates and asset values that would have a materially adverse impact on the Company's profitability and overall financial condition.•Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, resulting in increased delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities.17•Regulatory scrutiny of the industry could increase, leading to harsh regulation of our industry that could lead to a higher cost of compliance, limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities and increase the Company’s exposure to the judicial system and the plaintiff’s bar.•Further erosion in the fiscal condition of the U.S. Treasury could lead to new taxes that would limit the ability of the Company to pursue growth and return profits to shareholders. If these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition.Our business is closely tied to the local economies of Oregon and Idaho.The Company's business is closely tied to the economies of Oregon and Idaho in general and is particularly affected by the economies of Central, Southern and Northwest Oregon, as well as the greater Boise/Treasure Valley, Idaho area. In addition, the Company has a significant concentration in real estate lending which is directly affected by local and regional economic conditions. Approximately 71% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2013 consisted of loans secured by real estate-related loans, including construction and development loans, residential mortgage loans and commercial loans secured by commercial real estate, the vast majority of which are located in Oregon and Idaho. The economies of Oregon and Idaho have generally stabilized and/or are recovering. The housing market has improved and prices increased. Vacancy rates for commercial properties have stabilized and small business owners are increasingly considering bank borrowings in order to grow. However, slow economic growth and the lingering effect of the 2007 to 2009 downturn continue to make for challenging operating conditions which may continue for some time and may have an adverse impact on the Company. The Company may be required to increase its reserve for credit losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company maintains a reserve for credit losses in an amount that the Company believes is adequate to provide for losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the reserve reflects management’s continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations; and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the reserve for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company's control, may require an increase in the reserve for credit losses. Increases in non-performing loans have a significant impact on the Company's reserve for credit losses. Generally, the Company's non-performing loans reflect difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from continued financial stress on the borrowers’ asset values and cash flow abilities due to the weakened economy. If real estate markets or the economy in general deteriorate the Company may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. The reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan-related losses. Additionally, banking regulators may require the Company to increase its reserve for credit losses in the future, which could have a negative effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's reserve for credit losses is a significant accounting estimate and may not be adequate to cover future loan losses, which could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company maintains a reserve for credit losses in an amount that the Company believes is adequate to provide for losses inherent in the loan portfolio. While the Company strives to monitor credit quality and to identify adversely risk rated loans on a consistent and timely basis, including those that may become non-performing, at any time there are loans in the portfolio that could result in losses that have not been identified as problem or non-performing loans. Estimation of the reserve requires the Company to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of loans in the Company's loan portfolio. These assumptions and judgments include historical loan loss experience, current credit profiles of the Bank’s borrowers, adverse situations that have occurred that may affect a borrower’s ability to meet its financial obligations, the estimated value of underlying collateral and general economic conditions. Determining the appropriateness of the reserve is complex and requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company cannot be certain that it will be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become non-performing assets or that it will be able to limit losses on those loans that have been identified. As a result, future increases to the reserve for credit losses may be necessary. Additionally, future increases to the reserve for credit losses may be required based on changes in the composition of the loans comprising the loan portfolio, deteriorating values in underlying collateral (most of which consists of real estate in the markets served) and changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as those that may result from changes in economic conditions or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the reserve for credit loss. 18The Company's financial condition and ability to fund operations could be impaired by liquidity risk. Liquidity is essential to the Company's business. The Company's primary funding source is customer deposits. In addition, the Bank has historically had access to advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, referred to as the FHLB, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, referred to as the "FRB", discount window and other wholesale sources such as Internet-sourced deposits to fund operations. Although the Company has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, it might not be able to replace such funds in the future. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposits, borrowings, or the sale of securities or loans could have a substantial negative effect on the Company's liquidity. The Company's access to funding sources on terms which are acceptable to the Company could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. The Company has established a significant liquidity reserve as of December 31, 2013; however, the Company's ability to borrow or attract and retain deposits in the future could be adversely affected by the Company's financial condition or regulatory restrictions, or impaired by factors that are not specific to the Company, such as FDIC insurance changes, disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the banking industry. The Bank’s primary counterparty for borrowing purposes is the FHLB and liquid assets are mainly held at correspondent banks or the FRB. Borrowing capacity from the FHLB or FRB may fluctuate based upon the condition of the Bank or the acceptability and risk rating of securities or loan collateral and counterparties could adjust discount rates applied to such collateral at their discretion. The FRB or FHLB could restrict or limit the Company's access to secured borrowings. Correspondent banks can withdraw unsecured lines of credit or require collateralization for the purchase of federal funds. Liquidity also may be affected by the Bank’s routine commitments to extend credit. Sources of funds may not remain adequate for liquidity needs and the Bank may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available or, if available, may not be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms to provide necessary liquidity, the Company's financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company. The Bank is a public depository and, accordingly, accepts deposit funds that belong to, or are held for the benefit of, the State of Oregon, political subdivisions thereof, municipal corporations and other public funds. In accordance with applicable state law, in the event of default of one bank, all participating banks in the state collectively assure that no loss of funds is suffered by any public depositor. Generally, in the event of default by a depository of public funds in excess of collateral pledged, an assessment applicable to all public depositories is allocated on a pro rata basis in proportion to the maximum liability of each public depository as it existed on the date of loss. The maximum liability is dependent upon potential changes in regulations, the occurrence of Oregon bank failures and the level of public fund deposits held by the failing bank and cannot be presently determined. In 2013, the amount of collateral Cascade Bank was required to pledge against Oregon public deposits was 50% of the uninsured portion of these Oregon public deposits, but the percentage of collateral required to be pledged could be increased in the future. The Company's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of the Company's counterparty or client. In addition, the Company's credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. Such losses may materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations. Real estate values could decline leading to additional and greater-than-anticipated loan charge-offs and valuation write downs on OREO and OREO-related management and disposition expenses. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as other real estate owned, or OREO. In its normal lending process, the Bank may take a security interest in real estate as collateral for loans. In the event of obligor default, the Bank may have the right to foreclose on such collateral and take title to it. At December 31, 2013, the Bank had OREO with a carrying value of approximately $3.1 million. Generally, higher levels of OREO lead to greater expenses as the Bank incurs costs to manage and dispose of the properties, including personnel costs, insurance, taxes, completion costs, repair costs and other costs associated with property ownership. There are also funding costs associated with OREO. The Bank evaluates property values periodically and establishes valuation reserves, as appropriate, to adjust the carrying value of the properties to the lesser of book or appraised value, net of selling costs and any additional liquidation reserves to expedite the sale of such properties. Decreases in market prices may lead to additional OREO valuation reserves, with a corresponding 19expense in the Company's consolidated statement of operations. Further valuation reserves of OREO or an inability to sell OREO properties could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The banking industry and the Company operate under certain regulatory requirements that may change significantly and in a manner that further impairs revenues, operating income and financial condition. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the DFCS, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board. The regulations affect the Company's investment practices, lending activities and dividend policy, among other things. Moreover, federal and state banking laws and regulations undergo frequent and often significant changes and have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. Changes to these laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could, among other things, make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for the Company, limit the products the Company can offer or increase the ability of non-banks to compete and could adversely affect the Company in significant but unpredictable ways, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, referred to as the Dodd-Frank Act, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Included in the Dodd-Frank Act are, for example, changes related to deposit insurance assessments, executive compensation and corporate governance requirements, payment of interest on demand deposits, interchange fees and overdraft services. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the implementation of the “Volcker Rule” for banks and bank holding companies, which would prohibit proprietary trading, investment in and sponsorship of hedge funds and private equity funds, and otherwise limit the relationships with such funds. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking by various regulatory agencies and will take effect over several years, making it difficult at this time to anticipate the overall financial impact of this expansive legislation on the Company, its customers or the financial industry generally. Likewise, any new consumer financial protection laws enacted by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which was established pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, would apply to all banks and thrifts, and may increase the Company's compliance and operational costs in the future. In addition, the banking regulatory agencies adopted a final rule in July 2013 that implements the Basel III changes to the international regulatory capital framework and revises the U.S. risk-based and leverage capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations to strengthen identified areas of weakness in the capital rules and to address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule establishes a stricter regulatory capital framework that requires banking organizations to hold more and higher-quality capital to act as a financial cushion to absorb losses and help banking organizations better withstand periods of financial stress. The Company cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation. The Company's compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and may restrict certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, access to capital and brokered deposits and locations of banking offices. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in fines, penalties, sanctions and damage to the Company's reputation which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results. If the Company fails to maintain sufficient capital under regulatory requirements, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, that failure would adversely affect the Company's financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as the Company's ability to maintain regulatory compliance. Bancorp and the Bank must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. The Company's ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor preferences regarding the banking industry and market condition and governmental activities, many of which are outside the Company's control, and on the Company's financial condition and performance. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company fails to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, the Company's financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The Company may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements which would adversely affect the Company's net income and future growth. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC, issued rules that implemented the Basel III changes to the international regulatory capital framework and revised the U.S. risk-based and leverage capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations in order to strengthen identified areas of weakness in capital rules and to address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The rules apply to both Bancorp and the Bank.20The rules establish a stricter regulatory capital framework that requires banking organizations to hold more and higher-quality capital to act as a financial cushion to absorb losses and help banking organizations better withstand periods of financial stress. The rules increase capital ratios for all banking organizations and introduce a “capital conservation buffer” which is in addition to each capital ratio. If a banking organization dips into its capital conservation buffer, it may be restricted in its ability to pay dividends and discretionary bonus payments to its executive officers. The rules assign a higher risk weight (150%) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and to certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The rules also require unrealized gains and losses on certain “available-for-sale” securities holdings to be included for purposes of calculating regulatory capital requirements unless a one-time opt-in or opt-out is exercised. The rules also include changes in what constitutes regulatory capital, some of which are subject to a two-year transition period. These changes include the phasing-out of certain instruments as qualifying capital. In addition, Tier 2 capital is no longer limited to the amount of Tier 1 capital included in total capital. Mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets and investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries over designated percentages of common stock will be required to be deducted from capital, subject to a two-year transition period. Finally, Tier 1 capital will include accumulated other comprehensive income (which includes all unrealized gains and losses on available for sale debt and equity securities), subject to a two-year transition period. For more information on the new capital and liquidity requirements see "New Capital Rules" in Item 1 of this report. The rules become effective for the Company on January 1, 2015. The Company has the one-time option in the first quarter of 2015 to permanently opt out of the inclusion of accumulated other comprehensive income in its capital calculation. The Company is considering whether to opt out in order to reduce the impact of market volatility on its regulatory capital levels. The Company has conducted a pro forma analysis of the application of these new capital requirements as of December 31, 2013 and has determined that the Company meets all of these new requirements, including the full capital conservation buffer, as if these new requirements had been in effect on that date. Although the Company currently cannot predict the specific impact and long-term effects that Basel III will have on the Company and the banking industry more generally, the Company will be required to maintain higher regulatory capital levels which could impact the Company's operations, net income and ability to grow. Furthermore, the Company's failure to comply with the minimum capital requirements could result in regulators taking formal or informal actions against the Company which could restrict future growth or operations. The Bank’s deposit insurance premium could be higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on its future results of operations. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions assessments to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level; if an FDIC-insured financial institution fails, payments of deposits up to insured limits are made from the Deposit Insurance Fund. An increase in the risk category of the Bank, adjustments to assessment rates and/or a special assessment could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. Changes in the Federal Reserve Board’s monetary or fiscal policies could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The Company's results of operations will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve Board has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of depository institutions through its power to implement national monetary policy, among other things, in order to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve Board affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its purchases of government and other securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. The Company cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. The Company's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Historically low interest rates and changes in interest rates may adversely affect the Company's net interest income and profitability. In recent years, it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans the Company has originated and the yields on securities the Company has purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. This has been a significant factor in the decrease in the amount of the Company's interest income to $51.0 million and 21$54.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, from $67.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. As a general matter, the Company's interest-bearing assets reprice or mature slightly more quickly than the Company's interest-earning liabilities, which have resulted in decreases in net interest income as interest rates decreased. However, the Company's ability to lower its interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on the Company's interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates for the next several years. Accordingly, the Company's net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may continue to decrease, which will have an adverse effect on the Company's profitability. In addition, the Company's results of operations are highly dependent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to the market interest rates may impact the level of loans, deposits and investments and the credit quality of existing loans. These rates may be affected by many factors beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact the Company's ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Changes in accounting standards could affect reported earnings. The bodies responsible for establishing accounting standards, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively. The financial services business is intensely competitive and the Company may not be able to compete effectively. The Company faces competition for its services from a variety of competitors. The Company's future growth and success depend on its ability to compete effectively. The Company competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous financial service providers including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers and insurance companies. To the extent these competitors have less regulatory constraints, lower cost structures or increased economies of scale, they may be able to offer a greater variety of products and services or more favorable pricing for such products and services. In addition, improvements in technology, communications and the Internet have intensified competition. As a result, the Company's competitive position could be weakened, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Bank is a community bank and its ability to maintain its reputation is critical to the success of its business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect the Company's performance. The Bank is a community bank, and its reputation is one of the most valuable components of its business. A key component of the Bank’s business strategy is to rely on its reputation for customer service and knowledge of local markets to expand its presence by capturing new business opportunities from existing and prospective customers in its market area and contiguous areas. As such, the Bank strives to conduct its business in a manner that enhances its reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share the Bank’s core values of being an integral part of the communities the Bank serves, delivering superior service to its customers and caring about its customers and associates. If Bancorp's or the Bank’s reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of their employees, by their inability to conduct their operations in a manner that is appealing to current or prospective customers, or otherwise, the Company's business and, therefore, its operating results may be materially adversely affected. The Company relies heavily on technology and computer systems, and computer failure could result in loss of business and adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Advances and changes in technology could significantly affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The Company faces many challenges, including the increased demand for providing customers access to their accounts and the systems to perform banking transactions electronically. The Company's ability to compete depends on its ability to continue to adapt technology on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet these demands. In addition, the Company's business and operations are susceptible to negative effects from computer system failures, communication and energy disruption and unethical individuals with the technological ability to cause disruptions or failures of its data processing systems. 22Risks associated with the Company's Internet-based systems and online commerce security, including “hacking” and “identify theft,” could adversely affect the Company's business. The Company has a website and conducts a portion of its business over the Internet. The Company relies heavily upon data processing, including loan servicing and deposit processing software, communications systems and information systems from a number of third parties to conduct its business. Third party, or internal, systems and networks may fail to operate properly or become disabled due to deliberate attacks or unintentional events. The Company's operations are vulnerable to disruptions from human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, spam attacks, denial of service attacks, unauthorized access and other unforeseen events. Undiscovered data corruption could render the Company's customer information inaccurate. These events may obstruct the Company's ability to provide services and process transactions. While the Company believes that it is in compliance with all applicable privacy and data security laws, an incident could put its customer confidential information at risk. Although the Company has not experienced a cyber-incident that has been successful in compromising its data or systems, the Company can never be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to breaches of security or other technological difficulties or failures. The Company monitors and modifies, as necessary, its protective measures in response to the perpetual evolution of cyber threats. A breach in the security of any of the Company's information systems, or other cyber incident, could have an adverse impact on, among other things, its revenue, ability to attract and maintain customers and business reputation. In addition, as a result of any breach, the Company could incur higher costs to conduct its business, to increase protection, or related to remediation. Furthermore, the Company's customers could incorrectly blame the Company and terminate their accounts with the Bank for a cyber-incident which occurred on their own system or with that of an unrelated third party. In addition, a security breach could also subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Finally, on February 12, 2013, the Obama Administration released an executive order, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, referred to as the "Executive Order", which is focused primarily on government actions to support critical infrastructure owners and operators in protecting their systems and networks from cyber threats. The Executive Order requires the development of risk-based cybersecurity standards, methodologies, procedures, and processes, a so-called “Cybersecurity Framework,” that can be used voluntarily by critical infrastructure companies to address cyber risks. The Executive Order also will steer certain private sector companies to comply voluntarily with the Cybersecurity Framework. It is unclear at this time what impact the Executive Order will have on the Company's internet-based systems and online commerce security. The Company continually encounters technological changes which could result in the Company having fewer resources than many of its competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. Frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services in the financial services industry result in the need for rapid technological change. In addition, the effective use of technology may result in improved customer service and reduced costs. The Company's future success depends, to a certain extent, on its ability to identify the needs of customers and address those needs by using technology to provide the desired products and services and to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Certain competitors may have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to successfully implement new technology-driven products and services or to effectively market these products and services to the Company's customers. Failure to implement the necessary technological changes could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and, in turn, the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to attract or retain key banking employees which could adversely impact the Company's business and operations. The Company expects future success to be driven in large part by the relationships maintained with its customers by its executives and senior lending officers. The Company has entered into employment agreements with several members of senior management. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily ensure that the Company will be able to continue to retain their services. The Company's future successes and profitability are substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of its senior executives. The Company strives to attract and retain key banking professionals, management and staff. Competition to attract the best professionals in the industry can be intense which will limit the Company's ability to hire new professionals. Banking-related revenues and net income could be adversely affected in the event of the unexpected loss of key personnel. Changes or disruptions in the market for certain securities in the Company's investment portfolio could negatively affect the value of those securities. The Company's investment portfolio securities include obligations of, and mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by, government sponsored enterprises such as the Federal National Mortgage Association, referred to as "Fannie Mae", the Government National Mortgage Association, referred to as "Ginnie Mae", the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, 23referred to as "Freddie Mac", and the FHLB or otherwise backed by Federal Housing Administration or Veteran’s Administration guaranteed loans; however, volatility or illiquidity in financial markets may cause investment securities held within the Company's investment portfolio to fall in value or become less liquid. The FRB’s actions to increase the money supply (sometimes referred to as quantitative easing) may be curtailed or ended which may cause a decline in the value of securities held by the Company. Uncertainty surrounding the credit risk associated with mortgage collateral or guarantors may cause material discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. Volatile market conditions may reduce valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. Declines in market value associated with these disruptions would result in impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, equity and capital ratios. The Company could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the course of business, the Company may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or remediate hazardous or toxic substances at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if the Company is the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, it may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the contaminated site. If the Company becomes subject to significant environmental liabilities, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company's profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe it money. The Company is exposed to the risk that third parties that owe it money will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to the Company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. The Company's rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations the Company holds could result in losses and/or adversely affect the Company’s ability to use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. The Company relies on representations of potential borrowers and/or guarantors as to the accuracy and completeness of certain financial information. The Company's financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if the financial statements or other information that the Company relies upon is materially misleading. The Company could be subject to fines, sanctions or other adverse consequences if it fails to comply with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Truth in Lending Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Fair Lending Laws or other laws and regulations. Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT Act and Bank Secrecy Act to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money-laundering and terrorist activities. Financial Institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the United States Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, the Company is required to develop compliance management systems designed to detect and prevent violations of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Truth in Lending Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Fair Lending Laws and similar laws and regulations. The federal government has imposed and is expected to expand these and other laws and regulations relating to residential and consumer lending activities that create significant new compliance burdens and financial risks. The Company has developed policies and continues to augment procedures and systems designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, however it is possible for such safeguards to fail or prove deficient during the implementation phase to avoid non-compliance with such laws. The Company's operations rely on certain external vendors. The Company relies on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain day-to-day operations of the Company. Accordingly, the Company’s operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements, because of changes in the vendor’s organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to the Company’s operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.24ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable.