ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company describes below the most significant of these risks and uncertainties. These should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Additional risks that are not currently considered material may also have an adverse effect on the Company. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Before making an investment decision you should carefully consider the specific risks detailed in this section and other risks facing the Company including, among others, those certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified herein by management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and other risks described in this Form 10-K, the information in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Company’s cautionary statements as to “Forward-Looking Statements” contained therein. The Company May Continue to be Adversely Affected by Current Economic and Market Conditions The Company’s business is closely tied to the economies of Idaho and Oregon in general and is particularly affected by the economies of Central, Southern and Northwest Oregon, as well as the Greater Boise, Idaho area. Since mid-2007 the country has experienced a significant economic downturn. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been negatively impacted and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly in Idaho and Oregon, and is predicted to increase further. Beginning in mid-2007 and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon on the business environment in the markets where the Company operates. The current downturn in the economy and declining real estate values has had a direct and adverse affect on the financial condition and results of operations for the Company. This is particularly evident in the residential land development and residential construction segments of the Company’s loan portfolio. Developers or home builders whose cash flows are dependent on sale of lots or completed residences have experienced reduced ability to service their loan obligations and the market value of 13 underlying collateral has decreased dramatically. The impact on the Company has been an elevated level of impaired loans, an associated increase in provisioning expense and charge-offs for the Company, leading to a net loss for 2008. In addition, the Company experienced declining deposit resources because business and retail customers saw a reduction in overall level of assets and cash available to deposit in the bank. As a consequence, the Company increased its use of more volatile wholesale funds. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could continue to adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, liquidity profile and results of operations and financial condition. These conditions may also increase the Company’s need for additional capital which may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. The banking industry and Company operates under certain regulatory restrictions that may further impair our revenues, operating income and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by the Oregon Division of Finance and Corporate Securities (“DFCS”), the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve Board. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, access to capital and brokered deposits and locations of banking offices. If we are unable to meet these regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We must also meet regulatory capital requirements imposed by our regulators. An inability to meet these capital requirements would result in numerous mandatory supervisory actions and additional regulatory restrictions, and could have a negative impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. At December 31, 2008, we exceeded regulatory benchmarks for “well-capitalized” institutions. The Company’s annual examination by its primary banking regulators is currently in process. Upon conclusion of the examination, regulators could implement certain restrictions due to the high level of non-performing loans and adverse economic environment. The Company has not yet received its formal examination report from the regulators, but generally, they could, among other things, require management to reduce nonperforming assets, raise and/or improve capital levels, restrict dividend payments, improve liquidity, limit deposit pricing and restrict access to brokered or other volatile wholesale funds. Failure to meet capital requirements imposed by certain regulatory restrictions will have a negative impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to regulatory capital guidelines, which are used to evaluate our capital adequacy based primarily on the regulatory weighting for credit risk associated with certain balance sheet assets and certain off-balance sheet exposures such as unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit. To be “well-capitalized” we must have a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6%, a combined Tier 1 and Tier 2 risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, and a leverage ratio of at least 5%, and not be subject to a directive, order, or written agreement to meet and maintain specific capital levels. If we are unable to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Federal banking regulators are required to take prompt corrective action if an insured depository institution fails to satisfy certain minimum capital requirements, including a leverage limit, a risk-based capital requirement, and any other measure of capital deemed appropriate by the federal banking regulator for measuring the capital adequacy of an insured depository institution. At December 31, 2008, the bank exceeded regulatory benchmarks for “well-capitalized” institutions. However, the Bank is currently undergoing its annual examination and there can be no assurances that upon completion of the exam the regulators will continue to categorize us as “well-capitalized.” Our inability to remain “well-capitalized” in the future would result in numerous mandatory supervisory actions and regulatory restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to make capital distributions, our ability to grow, our ability to raise deposits (particularly in the wholesale market) and could negatively impact the manner in which we are regulated by state and federal banking regulators. In addition, a failure to remain “well-capitalized” may result in the Company being ineligible to participate in the TARP or CAP Program, which in turn may have a significant negative impact on the Company’s ability to raise outside private capital. As of December 31, 2008 our primary sources for liquidity are from retail deposits and available borrowings at the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) and the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) and any failure to remain “well-capitalized” may have a negative impact on our ability to access these sources of borrowings. 14 The Company has a significant concentration in real estate lending. A sustained downturn in real estate within the Company’s markets could negatively impact the Company. Many of the Company’s loans are to real estate developers and are secured by real estate located in Oregon and Idaho. Declining real estate values and a severe constriction in the availability of mortgage financing has negatively impacted real estate sales, which has resulted in customers’ inability to repay loans. In addition, the value of collateral underlying such loans has decreased materially. During 2008, we experienced significant increases in non-performing assets relating to our real estate lending, primarily in our residential real estate portfolio. We could see an increase in non-performing assets if more borrowers fail to perform according to loan terms and if we take possession of real estate properties. If these effects continue or become more pronounced, loan losses may increase more than we expect and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. In addition, the Company’s loans in other real estate portfolios including commercial construction and commercial real estate could also suffer reduced cash flow and reduced collateral value. Nationally, delinquencies in these types of portfolios are increasing significantly. While our portfolios of these types of loans have not been as adversely impacted as residential loans, there can be no assurance that the credit quality in these portfolios will not decrease significantly. These trends may continue and may result in losses that exceed the estimates that are currently included in the reserve for credit losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial conditions and results of operations. See also “Loans – Real Estate Loan Concentration” In Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Company may be required to make further increases to its reserve for credit losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The Company maintains a reserve for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the reserve for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan losses. Generally, our non-performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy of the markets we serve. If current trends in the real estate markets continue, we expect that we may continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to The Bank’s residential development loans. Moreover, with the country currently in a recession, we expect that economic conditions in our market areas will worsen and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. Representatives of the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the DFCS, our principal regulators, have publicly expressed concerns about the banking industry’s lending practices and have particularly noted concerns about real estate-secured lending. Further, state and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and our allowance for loan losses. Additional provision for loan losses or charge-off of loans could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. See section “Loans – Loan Portfolio Composition” in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for detailed description of loan portfolio to which the reserve for credit losses applies. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our primary funding source is customer deposits. During 2008, our core demand deposits declined by approximately $95 million because customers in general have experienced reduced funds available for core deposits. As a result, the 15 amount of our wholesale funding has increased. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We rely on commercial and retail deposits, brokered deposits, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Seattle, FRB discount window and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition or capital ratings were to change. Our access to brokered deposits may be significantly limited if our capital rating decreases. In February 2009, the FDIC informed the Bank that it was placing a temporary restriction on the Bank’s ability to accept additional Brokered Deposits. While this restriction is only in place until the completion of the Bank’s regulatory exam, the results of the exam may require a continued restriction on brokered deposits. If we fall below the FDIC’s thresholds to be considered “well-capitalized”, regulators could further restrict access to brokered deposits and the FRB or FHLB could restrict or limit our access to secured borrowings. Such actions could have the effect of reducing secured borrowing capacity. In addition, the State of Oregon Treasurer may, under certain circumstances, exercise authority to increase required level of collateral to pledge against public deposits held at the bank from 10% to 110%. The Company has taken certain steps to plan for this possibility but such action would have the net effect of reducing total secured borrowing capacity. As with many community banks, correspondent banks have withdrawn unsecured lines of credit or now require collateralization for the purchase of fed funds on a short-term basis due to present adverse economic environment. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, there can be no assurance in this regard and we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. The Company’s stock price has been negatively affected by the recent adverse economic trend, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. The Company may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future to augment capital ratios or levels or improve liquidity, but capital may not be available when it is needed. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to offset elevated risks arising from adverse economic conditions, support our business, finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. In addition, private investors may condition their investment on receipt of funds from the Treasury under EESA or other available programs. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In that regard, current market conditions and investor uncertainty have made it very challenging for financial institutions in general to raise capital. There can be no assurance that the Company could successfully raise additional capital nor that if such capital was available its price would not be significantly dilutive to shareholders. In light of diverse and uncertain economic conditions, the Company is currently seeking additional equity capital to bolster the Company’s capital and liquidity positions. The Company may not be able to obtain such financing or it may be only available on terms that are unfavorable to the Company and its shareholders. In the case of equity financings, dilution to Bancorp’s shareholders could result and securities issued in such financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of Bancorp’s current shareholders. Under the Company’s articles of incorporation, the Company may issue preferred equity without first obtaining shareholder approval. Debt financing may include covenants that restrict Bancorp’s operations and interest charges would detract from future earnings. In the event additional capital is not available on acceptable terms through available financing sources, the Company may instead take additional steps to preserve capital, including slowing or reduced lending, selling certain assets, increasing loan participations. The Company reduced its dividend to $.01 in the third quarter of 2008, and 16 we eliminated our cash dividend at year end as part of its effort to preserve capital under current adverse economic conditions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s current shareholders will not be diluted or that possible future dividends will not be adversely affected. On October 3, 2008, Congress approved the $700 billion EESA of 2008. The first phase of implementation of EESA included a $250 billion Treasury Capital Purchase Program. The Company applied for up to three-percent of its total risk-weighted assets in capital, which would be in the form of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the institution with a dividend rate of 5% until the fifth anniversary of the investment, and 9% thereafter. The Company’s application for TARP funds is currently designated as “pending.” There can be no assurance or guarantee that the Treasury will select the Company to participate in its Capital Purchase Program, or that upon completion of its annual examination the Bank will remain eligible to participate in the TARP Program. The Company believes that an investment by the Treasury through the TARP Program may be conditioned on the Company’s receipt of private equity capital which may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company, or may not be available at all. Home values may continue to decrease leading to additional and greater than anticipated loan charge-offs and valuation write downs on our other real estate owned (“OREO”) properties. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO” property. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for many of our loans as part of our business. During 2008, we acquired a significant amount of OREO relating to loans originated in the raw land and land development portfolio and to a lesser extent, other loan portfolios. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. We expect that our earnings in 2009 will be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in OREO. Moreover, our ability to sell OREO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to accept large discounts from market value in order to quickly liquidate properties. Any decrease in market prices may lead to OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our income statement. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if the results of our evaluations require it. Further write-downs on OREO or an inability to sell OREO properties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our liquidity, funding costs and net income. Our deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. On October 16, 2008, the FDIC published a restoration plan designed to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio, which decreased to 1.01% of insured deposits on June 30, 2008, to the statutory minimum of 1.15% of insured deposits by December 31, 2013. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposes to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. For the first quarter of 2009 only, the FDIC increased all FDIC deposit assessment rates by 7 basis points. These new rates range from 12-14 basis points for Risk Category I institutions to 50 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. Under the FDIC’s restoration plan, the FDIC proposes to establish new initial base assessment rates that will be subject to adjustment as described below. Beginning April 1, 2009, the base assessment rates would range from 10-14 basis points for Risk Category I institutions to 45 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, including CDARS, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, including Federal Home Loan Bank advances, lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high 17 capital levels, and adding financial ratios and debt issuer ratings to the premium calculations for banks with over $10 billion in assets, while providing a reduction for their unsecured debt. In addition, on March 2, 2009 the FDIC proposed a special insurance assessment applicable to all banks to maintain its insurance fund at targeted ratios. Either an increase in the Risk Category of the Bank or adjustments to the base assessment rates, and/or a significant special assessment could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company. The Company’s earnings are highly dependent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to the market interest rates may impact the level of loans, deposits and investments, and the credit quality of existing loans. These rates may be affected by many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general and economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact the Company’s ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation which undergoes frequent and often significant changes. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state banking authorities which impose requirements and restrictions on the Company’s operations. The regulations affect the Company’s investment practices, lending activities, and dividend policy, among other things. Moreover, federal and state banking laws and regulations undergo frequent and often significant changes and have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. Changes to these laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could, among other things, make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for the Company, could limit the products the Company can offer or increase the ability of non banks to compete and could adversely affect the Company in significant but unpredictable ways which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws or regulations could result in fines, penalties, sanctions and damage to the Company’s reputation which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. The financial services business is intensely competitive and our success will depend on our ability to compete effectively. The Company faces competition for its services from a variety of competitors. The Company’s future growth and success depends on its ability to compete effectively. The Company competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous financial service providers including banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage companies, broker dealers, and insurance companies. To the extent these competitors have less regulatory constraints, lower cost structures, or increased economies of scales they may be able to offer a greater variety of products and services or more favorable pricing for such products and services. As a result, the Company’s competitive position could be weakened, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies on its computer information systems in the conduct of its business. The Company has policies and procedures in place to protect against and reduce the occurrences of failures, interruptions, or breaches of security of these systems, however, there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will eliminate the occurrence of failures, interruptions or breaches of security or that they will adequately restore or minimize any such events. The occurrence of a failure, interruption or breach of security of the Company’s computer information systems could result in a loss of information, business or regulatory scrutiny, or other events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. Frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services in the financial services industry result in the need for rapid technological change. In addition, the effective use of technology may result in improved customer service and reduced costs. The Company’s future success depends, to a certain extent, on its ability to identify the needs of our customers and address those needs by using technology to provide the desired products and services 18 and to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Certain competitors may have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to successfully implement new technology-driven products and services or to effectively market these products and services to our customers. Failure to implement the necessary technological changes could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 9A Controls and Procedures.” Bancorp relies on dividends from the Bank. Bancorp is a separate legal entity from the Bank and substantially all of Bancorp’s revenues are derived from Bank dividends. These dividends may be limited by certain federal and state laws and regulations. In addition, any distribution of assets of the Bank upon a liquidation or reorganization would be subject to the prior liens of the Bank’s creditor. Because of the elevated credit risk and associated loss incurred in 2008, regulators have required the Company to seek permission prior to payment of dividends on common stock (if any) or on Trust Preferred Securities. In addition, the Bank is required to seek permission prior to payment of cash dividends to Bancorp. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Bancorp, Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends on its stock or pay interest on its debt, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to attract or retain key banking employees. We expect our future success to be driven in large part by the relationships maintained with our clients by our executives and senior lending officers. We have entered into employment agreements with several members of senior management. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily ensure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. The Company strives to attract and retain key banking professionals, management and staff. Competition to attract the best professionals in the industry can be intense which will limit the Company’s ability to hire new professionals. Banking related revenues and net income could be adversely affected in the event of the unexpected loss of key personnel. The value of certain securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. While the Company’s securities are mainly guaranteed by government sponsored enterprises such as FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC and FHLB, the present volatility and relative illiquidity in financial markets may cause certain investment securities held within our investment portfolio to become less liquid. This coupled with the uncertainty surrounding the credit risk associated with the underlying collateral may cause material discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. Volatile market may affect the value of securities through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income, equity, and capital ratios. Risks Associated With The Company’s Common Stock Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: o Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. o Recommendations by securities analysts. 19 o Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company. o News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. o Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors. o New technology used, or services offered, by competitors. o Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors. o Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. o Changes in government regulations. o Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company’s stock price to change regardless of operating results. An Investment In The Company’s Common Stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 