Item 1A. Risk Factors. This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, that could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. The matters set forth below should be carefully considered when evaluating our business and prospects. We are dependent on a limited number of products, especially Versant Object Database. Nearly all of our license revenues to date have been derived from our Versant Object Database product and its predecessors. Consequently, if our ability to generate revenues from Versant Object Database were negatively impacted, our business, cash flows and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Many factors could negatively impact our ability to generate revenues from Versant Object Database, including without limitation softness in demand in the North American market for enterprise software, consumer demand changes in the European market for enterprise software, slowness in the general economy or in key industries we serve, such as the technology, telecommunications and defense industries, the success of competitive products of other vendors, reduction in the prices we can obtain 10 for our products due to competitive factors, the adoption of new technologies or standards that make our products technologically obsolete and customer reluctance to invest in object-oriented technologies. Although we have taken steps to diversify our product line through our acquisition of Poet and its FastObjects data management product, we still expect that sales of Versant Object Database will continue to be very critical to our revenues for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any significant reduction in revenue levels from our Versant Object Database product can be expected to have a material negative impact on our business and results of operation. Our products face significant competition from larger competitors. For Versant Object Database and FastObjects products, we compete with other companies offering other database management systems. We face substantial competition from substantially larger and well-established relational database management companies including Oracle, Computer Associates, Sybase, IBM, and Microsoft. We also face competition from object database companies including Progress Software Corporation and Objectivity. Additionally, some of our prospective customers might attempt to build specialized data storage capability themselves using their own internal engineering resources, sometimes starting with low level operating system functionality, and other times utilizing lower level data storage routines that are commercially available, such as Oracle Berkeley DB, a simplified database without query processing capability. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources, better name recognition, broader suites of product offerings, stronger sales and distribution channels and a much larger installed base of customers than ours. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers. Our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products. They may further have more direct access to corporate decision-makers of key customers based on their previous relationships with customers. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and may be able to obtain sales of products competitive to ours through package sales of a suite of a variety of products that we do not offer. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, and competitive pressures could cause us to lose revenues or lower the prices for our products to increase sales, or take other responsive actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on successful technology development. We believe that significant research and development expenditures will continue to be necessary in order for us to remain competitive. While we believe our research and development expenditures will improve our product lines, because of the uncertainty of software development projects, these expenditures will not necessarily result in successful product introductions. Uncertainties affecting the success of software development project introductions include technical difficulties, delays in introductions of new products, market conditions, competitive products, and customer acceptance of new products and the operating systems they run on. We also face certain challenges in integrating third-party technology embedded in our products. These challenges include the technological challenges of integration, which may result in development delays, and uncertainty regarding the economic terms of our relationship with the third-party technology providers, which may result in delays of the commercial release of new products. In addition, if we are required to adopt cost-conservation measures, we may be compelled to reduce the amounts of our investment in research and development activities, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain the competitiveness of our existing products, our ability to develop new products, and our future research and development capabilities. Failure to continue to timely develop technologies and products necessary for us to remain competitive is likely to have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our quarterly revenue levels are not predictable. Our revenues have fluctuated (in some cases significantly) on a quarterly basis, and we expect this trend to continue. For example, in fiscal 2007, our quarterly revenues fluctuated from a high of $5.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 to a low of $5.2 million in the first, second and third quarters of 2007; and in fiscal 2006, our quarterly revenues 11 fluctuated from a high of $4.6 million in both the first and fourth quarters of 2006 to a low of $3.8 million in both the second and third quarters of 2006. These quarterly fluctuations have resulted from a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: •delays by our customers (including customers who are resellers) in signing revenue-bearing contracts that were expected to be entered into in a particular fiscal quarter and, in particular, the timing of any significant sales transactions; •the status of the market for enterprise software and general macroeconomic factors that impact our potential customers' capital purchasing decision for information technology (or "IT") solutions, such as our products; •the lengthy sales cycle associated with our products; •the extent to which we do or do not complete tasks under contracts for consulting projects which must be completed in order for us to recognize certain revenues under such contracts; •customer and market perceptions of the value and currency of object-oriented software technology; •uncertainty regarding the timing and scope of customers' deployment of applications based on Versant Object Database, where revenues are contingent upon the customer's deployment of our product; •any failure by us to timely develop and launch successful new products; •fluctuations in domestic and foreign demand for our products and services, particularly in the telecommunications, technology and defense markets; •the impact of new product introductions, both by us and by our competitors; •our unwillingness to lower prices significantly to meet prices set by our competitors or reductions of our prices to meet competition; •the effect of the publication by industry writers, securities analysts or others regarding their opinions about us, our competitors, our products and our competitors' products; •customer deferrals of orders for our products or services in anticipation of product enhancements or new product offerings by us or our competitors; •potential customers' unwillingness to invest in our products given our size and assets. To expand and diversify our product line may adversely affect our operating results and may not result in the development of successful new products. To develop new products to expand and diversify our product offerings beyond our core products, Versant Object Database and FastObjects, will likely require substantial marketing, research and development and sales expenditures, without assurance of receiving incremental additional revenue from such new products. To develop successful new products typically requires significant marketing expenditures to determine viable products and applications and target customers, substantial research and development expenditures and additional sales expense associated with selling new products to new customers. A significant portion of such expenses would likely be incurred well in advance of our recognition of any revenues from such new products, and thus could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows for certain fiscal periods before we derive any significant revenues from such new products. In addition, there can be no assurance that such new products will be accepted in the marketplace or generate meaningful amounts of revenue. Failure to develop successful new products may adversely affect our ability to successfully market other products and our future revenues. Consequently, the Company must act carefully when making product or technology development decisions. 12 Our future revenues are substantially dependent upon our installed customers continuing to license Versant products and renewing maintenance agreements for our products; our future professional services and maintenance revenues are dependent on future sales of our software products. We depend heavily on our installed customer base for future revenues from licenses of additional products or upgrades of existing products and related maintenance renewal fees. If our existing customers do not purchase additional products, upgrade existing products or renew their maintenance agreements with us, this could materially adversely affect our business and future quarterly and annual operating results. The terms of our standard license arrangements provide for a one-time license fee and a prepayment of one year of software maintenance and support fees. Our maintenance agreements are renewable annually at the option of the customer, and there are no minimum payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. Therefore, our current customers may not necessarily generate significant maintenance revenues in future periods if they choose not to renew our maintenance services. This risk may be increased in the case of long-term customers who have not upgraded our products, which they license. In addition, our customers may choose not to purchase additional products, upgrades or professional services. Our professional services and maintenance revenues are also dependent upon the continued use of our products by our installed customer base. Consequently, any downturn in our software license revenues would likely have a corresponding negative impact on the growth of our professional service revenues. Our customer concentration increases the potential volatility of our operating results. Due to the nature of our products a significant portion of our total revenues has been, and we believe will continue to be, derived from a limited number of orders placed by large organizations. For example, two customers each accounted for 14% and 8% of our total revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2007 and one customer accounted for 21% of our total revenues for the quarter ended October 31, 2007. Two customers each accounted for 7% and 8% of our total revenues, respectively, for fiscal 2006 and one customer accounted for 30% of our total revenues for the quarter ended October 31, 2006. The timing of large orders and of their fulfillment has caused, and in the future is likely to cause, material fluctuations in our operating results, particularly on a quarterly basis. In addition, our major customers tend to change from year to year. The loss of any one or more of our major customers, or our inability to replace a customer making declining purchases with a new customer of comparable significance, could each have a material adverse effect on our business. Reduced demand for our products and services may prevent us from achieving targeted revenues and profitability. Our revenues and our ability to achieve and sustain profitability depend on the overall demand for the software products and services we offer. Reduced demand for our product line may result from competition offered by alternative technologies, negative customer perception of our object-oriented technology or other causes. General economic conditions can also have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We cannot predict the impact of these events in the future, or their impact on our customers or our business. In addition, we have experienced continued hesitancy on the part of our existing and potential customers to commit to new products or services from us, particularly in our North American markets. Recent events, including fallout from problems in the U.S. subprime mortgage market, indicate a potential near-term recession in the U.S. economy, which could in turn have negative repercussions for the global economy. If U.S. or global economic conditions take a downturn, it could negatively impact our revenues and thus have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products have a lengthy sales cycle. The sales cycle for our Versant Object Database and FastObjects products varies substantially from customer to customer. This sale cycle often exceeds nine months and can sometimes extend to a year or more, especially for sales to defense sector customers. Due in part to the strategic nature of our products and the expenditures associated with their purchase, potential customers are typically cautious in making decisions to acquire our products. Influencing our customers' decision to license our products generally requires us to provide a significant level of 13 education to prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of our products, and we frequently commit to provide that education without any charge or reimbursement. Generally, pre-sales support efforts, such as assistance in performing benchmarking and application prototype development, are also conducted with no charge to customers. Because of the lengthy sales cycle for our products and the relatively large average dollar size of our individual licenses, a lost or delayed sales transaction could potentially have a significant negative impact on our operating results for a particular fiscal period. We may not be able to manage costs effectively given the unpredictability of our revenues. We expect to continue to maintain a relatively high percentage of fixed expenses. Inasmuch as we have completed a restructuring in fiscal 2005 and 2006 to significantly reduce our operating expenses and in fiscal 2007 reduced the rent expense for our U.S. headquarters, we might be unable to further reduce certain fixed expenses to accommodate any revenue reductions. If forecasted revenue does not materialize, then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. We rely on revenues from the telecommunications, technology, and defense industries; and these industries are characterized by complexity, intense competition and changes in purchasing cycles. Historically, we have been highly dependent upon the telecommunications industry and, more recently, we are also becoming increasingly dependent upon the technology and defense industries for sales of Versant Object Database. Our success in these markets depends, to a large extent, on the general economic conditions affecting these industries, our ability to compete with alternative and more directly competing technology providers, our ability to develop products that can successfully interoperate in different computing environments and whether our existing and potential customers believe we have the expertise and financial stability necessary to provide effective solutions in these markets on an ongoing basis. If these conditions, among others, are not satisfied, we may not be successful in generating additional opportunities in these markets. The technology industry has also generally experienced volatility in recent years that may adversely affect demand for our products and services from that industry, and the defense industry may experience new cycles of lower available technology budgets due to high levels of U.S. defense spending for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. In the past, general economic downturns have also adversely affected our ability to generate revenues from customers in these and other industries. In addition, the types of applications and commercial products for the technology, telecommunications and defense markets are continuing to develop and are rapidly changing, and these markets are characterized by an increasing number of new entrants whose products may compete with ours. As a result, we cannot predict the future growth of (or whether there will be future growth in) these markets, and demand for object-oriented databases applications in these markets may not develop or be sustainable. We also may not be successful in attaining a significant share of these markets due to competition and other factors, such as our limited size and working capital. Moreover, potential customers in these markets generally develop sophisticated and complex applications that require substantial consulting expertise to implement and optimize. There can be no assurance that we can hire and retain adequate personnel for this practice. We rely on substantial revenues generated through our international operations and will continue to do so in the future. A large portion of our revenues is derived from customers located outside North America, and it is critical for us to maintain these international revenues. Following our 2004 acquisition of Poet, which had a strong European presence, international revenues have represented a larger percentage of our total revenues than they had historically. Consequently, we must conduct our operations internationally and maintain a significant presence in international markets. For fiscal 2007, international revenues derived from customers outside North America made up approximately 54% of total revenues, compared to 63% for fiscal 2006 and 66% for fiscal 2005. North American revenues were 46% of total revenues for fiscal 2007, compared to 37% for fiscal 2006 and 34% for fiscal 2005. Due to the changes in our sales management and organization, which has to some degree shifted more of our sales emphasis to European customers, we expect in the future to experience a somewhat 14 stronger demand for our products in Europe as compared to our other geographic markets, making our international revenues even more critical to our operations and cash flows. International Operations pose unique risks. Our international operations are subject to a number of unique risks in addition to the risks faced by our domestic operations. These risks include, but are not limited to the following areas: •longer receivable collection periods; •adverse changes in regulatory requirements; •dependence on independent resellers; •fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; •compliance with multiple and conflicting laws, regulations and technology standards in different jurisdictions, some of which are more burdensome and restrictive than U.S. laws; •import and export restrictions, tariffs and other regulatory restrictions; •difficulties in, and increased costs of, staffing and managing foreign operations; •potentially adverse tax consequences arising from international operations and inter-company transactions; •the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including more protective employment laws in Germany; •the impact of business cycles, economic and political instability and potential hostilities outside the United States; and •limited ability to enforce agreements, intellectual property rights and other rights in some foreign countries. In addition, in light of increasing global security and terrorism, there may be additional risks of disruption to our international sales activities. Any prolonged disruption in the markets in which we derive significant revenues may potentially have a material adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. In order to be successful, Versant must attract, retain and motivate key employees, for whom competition is intense; and failure to do so could seriously harm the Company. In order to effectively execute our business strategy, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, sales and technical positions. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, train and motivate highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. We reduced our workforce in connection with a restructuring of our operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. These factors, constraints on our ability to offer compensation at levels that may be offered by larger competitors and other circumstances may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management in the future. We must continue to motivate our employees and keep them focused on the achievement of our strategies and goals. We retain a significant number of employees in our offices in Pune, India. There is increasing competition for skilled employees in the Indian market, resulting in a greater risk of employee turnover and loss of key trained personnel there, which could adversely impact our research and development and quality control activities. In addition, we now employ a sizable German workforce subject to German employment law, which generally provides greater financial protection to terminated employees than does United States law. Consequently, failure 15 to retain our German employees may cause us to incur significant severance costs, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We have limited working capital and may experience difficulty in obtaining needed funding, which may limit our ability to effectively pursue our business strategies. At October 31, 2007, we had approximately $19.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and working capital of approximately $15.3 million. Although our operations were profitable in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, to date, we have not achieved profitability or generated positive cash flows on a sustained basis. In response to this situation, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we restructured our business operations to significantly reduce our operating expenses by streamlining our operating processes. These restructuring efforts continued into the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 and were completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. With such restructuring, and as a result of our revenue levels in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and any net cash provided by operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for the next twelve months or longer. However, it is possible that in the future we may encounter unexpected expenditures due to unsuccessful sales, marketing and/or development decisions, acquisitions of businesses or technologies, litigations or settlements or other events, such as reduced revenues resulting from adverse changes broadly affecting the general U.S. or world economies and thus our customers' capital spending decisions, that may cause us to choose to make further cost reductions, and it is possible that other future events may occur that could render our current working capital reserves insufficient. Because our revenues are unpredictable and a significant portion of our expenses is fixed (and because it may be more difficult to further reduce our operating expenses beyond the reductions made in our last restructuring), a reduction in our projected revenues or unanticipated requirements for cash outlays could deplete our limited financial resources and working capital. Impairment of our working capital would require us to make expense reductions and/or to raise funds through borrowing or debt or equity financing. If we determined that we needed to raise additional funding to pursue our business strategy or otherwise, there can be no assurance that any equity or debt funding will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot secure adequate financing sources when required, then we would need to further reduce our operating expenses, which we may be unable to do at a meaningful level and which would restrict our ability to pursue our business objectives. Our personnel, management team and operations are located in different countries and as a result, we may experience difficulty in coordinating our activities and successfully implementing Company goals. Following our 2004 merger with Poet, we acquired significant operations and personnel in Europe, and now have approximately 32 employees based in Europe whose activities must be well coordinated with those of our U.S. workforce and other employees. In addition, we also perform a significant amount of engineering work in India through our wholly owned subsidiary located in Pune, India. We currently employ about 33 employees in India, which represents approximately 41% of our total workforce. Our management team resides in both our U.S. headquarters in Redwood City, California, where our Chief Financial Officer is located, and in our offices in Hamburg, Germany, where both our Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President of Field Operations reside. The significant geographic dispersion of our management team and our workforce may make it more difficult for us to successfully manage our long-term objectives, coordinate activity across the Company, and integrate our operations and business plans and causes us to incur certain additional travel and other expenses to maintain communications between our various offices.. We are subject to litigation and the risk of future litigation. We and certain of our present and former officers and directors were named as defendants in four class action lawsuits filed in 1998 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleged violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and SEC Rule 10b-5 promulgated under that Act, in connection with public statements about our financial performance. Although this case was later dismissed, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to similar securities-related litigation in 16 the future. In addition, during fiscal 2006, we settled a litigation that commenced in the last quarter of fiscal 2004 when we were sued by Systems America, Inc., a privately held company, in an action which alleged that, prior to our acquisition of Mokume Software, Inc. in November 2002, persons associated with Mokume Software misappropriated trade secrets and confidential information of Systems America, unfairly competed with Systems America with respect to its customer relationships, and infringed Systems America's trademarks and trade names. We are currently a party to a pending litigation in which Rockwell Automation, one of our customers, is seeking indemnification from us for similar claims asserted against it by Systems America, Inc. Litigation can be expensive to defend, can consume significant amounts of management time and can result in an adverse judgment or settlement that could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and cash reserves. We will incur increased costs to comply with certain requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and regulations relating to corporate governance matters and public disclosure. The provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related rules adopted or proposed by the SEC and by the NASDAQ Stock Market and recent accounting pronouncements, including accounting rules regarding the expensing of stock options and accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, will increase our costs to evaluate the implications of these laws, regulations and standards and comply with their requirements. Based on the current market price of our common stock, it is likely that we will become an "accelerated filer" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during our current fiscal year ending October 31, 2008, which will result in our having to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding certain assessments and auditor attestations regarding internal control structure reporting. Compliance with these assessment and attestation obligations may significantly increase our general and administrative expenses, which will negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest resources to comply with existing requirements and standards. We expect that this investment will result in increased general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2008 and 2009, and a diversion of management time and attention from strategic revenue generation and cost management activities. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on our board committees or as executive officers. We are taking steps to comply with applicable laws and regulations in accordance with the deadlines by which compliance is required, but we cannot accurately predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs that we may incur to respond to these requirements. Adoption and application of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies regarding revenue recognition could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenues and profits. Although we use standardized license agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in multi-element or multi-year transactions. As our transactions increase in complexity with the sale of larger, multi-product, multi-year licenses, negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle and, in certain situations, may require us to defer recognition of revenue on such licenses. We believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended; however, these future, more complex, multi-element, multi-year license transactions, which may require additional accounting analysis to account for them accurately, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices and may contain terms affecting the timing of revenue recognition. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting for the merger with Poet and FastObjects may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In accordance with the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we account for our merger with Poet and our acquisition of FastObjects, Inc. using the purchase method of accounting, which results in charges to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Under the purchase method of accounting, we have allocated the total estimated purchase price of Poet and 17 FastObjects to net tangible assets and amortizable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the respective dates of the closing of these acquisitions, and recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. We will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain intangible assets acquired in connection with these acquisitions, which will extend into future fiscal years. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets is impaired; we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. Such amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could impair our ability to successfully compete. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products, obtain or use information that we regard as proprietary or use or make copies of our products in violation of license agreements. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and enforcing our proprietary rights is potentially expensive. In addition, the laws of many jurisdictions do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Shrink-wrap licenses may be wholly or partially unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and copyright and trade secret protection for software may be unavailable in certain foreign countries. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop similar technology, which they could then market and sell to our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement. We expect that developers of object-oriented technology will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products, competitors and patents in our industry sector grows. For example, in 2004 we were served with a complaint filed by Systems America, Inc. alleging that we received misappropriated intellectual property from Mokume Software, Inc. when we acquired Mokume in November 2002, and that Mokume had interfered with certain business relationships of Systems America. While this action has since been settled, we are currently the defendant in a pending suit filed by a customer, Rockwell Automation, who is seeking indemnity from Versant against a similar claim that Systems America has asserted against Rockwell Automation in a separate lawsuit. Any claim of this type, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, could result in significant litigation expenses, could cause product shipment delays and require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay amounts in settlement of the claims or pursuant to judgments. If any of our products or technologies were found to infringe third-party rights, royalty or licensing agreements to use such third-party rights might not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we might be enjoined from marketing an infringing product or technology, each of which circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market may be perceived as a negative by investors and may adversely affect the liquidity and trading price of our common stock. We may be unable to re-list our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market System, or NGMS. We may engage in future acquisitions of businesses or assets that could dilute our shareholders and cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. As part of our strategy, we may from time to time review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer us growth opportunities. In the event of any future acquisitions, we potentially might take any or all of the following actions: •pay amounts of cash to acquire assets or businesses; •issue stock that would dilute current shareholders' percentage ownership; 18 •incur debt; and/or •assume liabilities. Such acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including the following: •problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products or integration of new personnel; •the incurrence of substantial transaction costs to effect such acquisitions; •the incurrence of unanticipated costs in completing such acquisitions or in inheriting unforeseen liabilities and expenses of acquired businesses; •diversion of management's attention from our core business; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and •potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies that we might purchase in the future. Our stock price is volatile. Our revenues, operating results and stock price have historically been and may continue to be subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. We have previously experienced revenues and earnings results that were significantly below levels expected by security analysts and investors, which have had an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. This may occur again in the future. Additionally, as a significant portion of our revenues are often realized late in a fiscal quarter, we may not be aware of any revenues shortfall until late in a quarter, which, when announced, could result in an even more immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 