Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are the key risk factors that management believes could have a negative impact to the Corporation’s financial performance. Interest rate volatility could significantly harm the Bank’s business. The Bank’s results of operations are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the regulatory policies of governmental authorities. A significant component of the Bank’s earnings is its net interest income, which is the difference between the income from interest earning assets, such as loans, and the expense of interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits. A change in market interest rates could adversely affect the Bank’s earnings if market interest rates change such that the interest the Bank pays on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest it collects on loans and investments. The Bank’s results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. The inability of borrowers to repay loans could erode our earnings and capital. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in western Pennsylvania, and any economic decline in this market area could impact us adversely. The majority of the Bank’s business is concentrated in western Pennsylvania, which is traditionally a slower growth market than other areas of the United States. As a result, the Bank’s loan portfolio and results of operations may be adversely affected by factors that have a significant impact on the economic conditions in this market area. The local economies of this market area historically have been less robust than the economy of the nation as a whole and may not be subject to the same fluctuations as the national economy. Adverse economic conditions in the Bank’s market area, including the loss of certain significant employers, could reduce its growth rate, affect its borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and generally affect the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, a downturn in real estate values in the Bank’s market area could cause many of its loans to become inadequately collateralized. The Bank’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if its allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses. As a lender, the Bank is exposed to the risk that our borrowers may be unable to repay their loans and that collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of the Bank. We make certain assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. If these assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, thereby having an adverse effect on operating results, and may cause us to increase the allowance in the future. Changes in legislative or regulatory requirements applicable to the Corporation and its subsidiaries could increase costs, limit certain operations and adversely affect results of operations. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit a financial institution’s growth and the return to its investors, by restricting such activities as the payment of dividends, mergers with or acquisitions by other institutions, expansion of branch offices and the offering of securities or trust services. The Corporation is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal law and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that its subsidiary bank is found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects, as well as those of the Corporation. The Corporation also cannot predict the nature or the extent of the effect on our business and earnings of new federal or state legislation. Further, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Bank’s business and financial condition may be adversely affected by an increase in competition. The Bank faces significant competition in attracting and retaining deposits and making loans as well as in providing other financial services throughout our market area. In addition to facing pricing competition for loans and deposits, the Bank also faces competition with respect to customer convenience, product lines, accessibility of service and service capabilities. The Bank’s competition comes from other banks and savings institutions, brokerages, credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses, many of which are larger in terms of total assets and capitalization, have greater access to the capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services than the Bank does. Competition with such institutions may cause the Bank to increase its deposit rates or decrease its interest rate spread on loans it originates. New litigation or changes in current litigation could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition or results of operation. Although there is currently no material litigation to which the Corporation is the subject, future litigation that arises during the normal course of business could be material and have a negative impact on the Corporation’s earnings. Future litigation or changes in current litigation could also adversely impact the reputation of the Corporation in the communities that it serves. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. Item 