ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain factors that may affect our business and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements include the following: A small group of stockholders in the holding company are able to exercise control over our business. The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdings. The principal stockholders of Holdings are GCP California Fund, L.P. (“GCP”) and additional affiliates of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. (“LGP”). Through their ownership or control of over 75% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, these stockholders have the power to elect a majority of the Leslie’s Board of Directors. Accordingly, those stockholders have the power to approve all amendments to the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and to effect fundamental corporate transactions such as mergers, asset sales and public offerings. Our continued success depends on our successful expansion in new and existing markets. The Company’s continued growth depends to a significant degree on its ability to open new stores in existing and new markets and to operate these stores on a profitable basis. To a lesser extent, the Company’s 7 Table of Contents continued growth depends on increasing comparable store sales. The Company opened 36 net new stores in 2007, 27 net new stores in 2008 and 18 net new stores in 2009. We cannot assure that we will be able to open new stores in a timely manner; hire, train and integrate employees; continue locating and obtaining favorable store sites; and adapt distribution, management information and other operating systems to the extent necessary to grow in a successful and profitable manner. Further, we cannot assure that the Company’s new stores will achieve historical levels of sales or profitability. Because the Company’s new stores generally have lower operating margins following their opening than mature stores, the opening of a large number of stores could have an adverse effect on total operating margins. Additionally, the Company’s expansion plans could be adversely affected by a significant downturn in the economy and resulting decrease in new home and swimming pool construction. We expect that the Company’s quarterly results of operations will fluctuate depending on the timing and the amount of revenue contributed by new stores and, to a lesser degree, the timing of costs associated with the opening of new stores. Our business is highly seasonal and results of operations fluctuate as a result of weather conditions. Our business exhibits substantial seasonality which we believe is typical of the swimming pool supply industry. In general, sales and earnings are highest during the quarters ending in June and September, which represent the peak months of swimming pool use. Typically, all of the Company’s operating income is generated in these two quarters which offsets the operating losses incurred in each of the other two quarters. Our business is significantly affected by weather patterns. For example, unseasonably late warming trends can decrease the length of the pool season, and unseasonably cool weather and/or extraordinary amounts of rainfall in the peak season may decrease swimming pool use, resulting in lower maintenance needs and decreased sales. We may not be able to successfully compete with large volume mass merchants. Most of the Company’s competition comes from local stores or regional chains which do not typically repackage products and which generally buy products in smaller quantities. The chain store competitors include a large franchise operator of approximately 200 retail outlets in the Florida market and a limited number of other retail chains of approximately 15 to 30 stores. We compete on selected principal products with large-volume mass merchants and home centers which offer a limited selection of pool supplies as compared to us. Should mass merchants increase the breadth of their pool related product offerings, it would likely have an adverse effect on our business. There are no proprietary technologies or other significant barriers to prevent other firms from entering the swimming pool supply retail market in the future. Competition could adversely impact the Company’s sales and operating margins. Our business may be adversely affected by an economic downturn. Consumer demand for swimming pool related products may decline if discretionary spending declines as a result of a downturn in the economy. While spending for maintenance, repairs and replacement by existing pool owners must occur to maintain existing swimming pools, a portion of the Company’s growth depends on the continued expansion of the installed swimming pool base, which may be considered a discretionary expenditure and could be negatively affected by a difficult economy. Our business includes the packaging and storage of chemicals and an accident related to those chemicals could subject us to liability and increased costs. We operate chemical repackaging facilities in Ontario, California and Hebron, Kentucky and we store chemicals in our retail stores and in distribution facilities in Ontario, California; Dallas, Texas; Swedesboro, New Jersey; Orlando, Florida; and Hebron, Kentucky. Because some of the chemicals we repackage and store are flammable or combustible compounds, we must comply with various fire and safety ordinances. However, a release at a retail store or a fire at one of the Company’s facilities could give rise to liability claims against us. In addition, if an incident involves a repackaging or distribution facility, we might be required temporarily to use 8 Table of Contents alternate sources of supply that could increase the Company’s cost of sales. We believe that we maintain adequate insurance coverage. However, due to changes in the insurance industry that have led to higher costs, we can not guarantee that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at reasonable rates or that the Company’s insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. Our business is subject to compliance with environmental, health, transportation and safety regulations. We are subject to various regulations under federal, state and local environmental, health, transportation and safety requirements. These regulations govern the storage and sale of pool chemicals, as well as packaging, labeling, handling, and transportation of those products. Failure to comply with these laws may result in the assessment of civil and criminal penalties. Compliance with such laws in the future may be costly, as the trend in such regulations has been increasingly restrictive on activities that impact the environment. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect us. We believe that the Company’s success is largely dependent upon the abilities and experience of its senior management team. The loss of services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 9 Table of Contents 