D. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our securities could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We may experience delays, higher than expected costs, difficulties in obtaining environmental permits and other obstacles when implementing our capital expenditure projects. We are investing heavily in various facets of our NorthMet Project. Our NorthMet Project is subject to a number of risks that may make it less successful than anticipated, including: • we may encounter delays or higher than expected costs completing the environmental review process necessary before construction and operating permits can be issued; • delays in the issuance of permits after completion of the environmental review process; • delays or higher than expected costs in obtaining the necessary equipment or services to build and operate our projects; and • adverse mining conditions may delay and hamper our ability to produce the expected quantities of minerals. Our future activities could be subject to environmental laws and regulations, which may have a materially adverse effect on our future operations, in which case our operations could be suspended or terminated. We, like other companies doing business in the United States and Canada, are subject to a variety of federal, provincial, state and local statutes, rules and regulations designed to, among other things: • protect the environment, including the quality of the air and water in the vicinity of exploration, development, and mining operations; • remediate the environmental impacts of those exploration, development, and mining operations; • protect and preserve wetlands and endangered species; and • mitigate negative impacts on certain archaeological and cultural sites. We are required to obtain various governmental permits to conduct exploration, development, construction and mining activities at our properties. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is often a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous United States or Canadian federal, provincial, state, and local agencies. The duration and success of each permitting effort is contingent upon many variables not within our control. In the context of obtaining permits or approvals, we must comply with known standards, existing laws, and regulations that may entail greater or lesser costs and delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of the laws and regulations implemented by the permitting authority. The failure to obtain certain permits or the adoption of more stringent permitting requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, and properties and we may be unable to proceed with our exploration and development programs. Federal legislation and implementing regulations adopted and administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Army Corp of Engineers, Forest Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Mine Safety and Health Administration, and other federal agencies, and legislation such as the Federal Clean Water Act, Clean Air Act, National Environmental Policy Act, Endangered Species Act, and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, have a direct bearing on exploration, development and mining operations United States. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the permitting process, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain required approvals for proposed activities at any of our properties in a timely manner, or that our proposed activities will be allowed at all. 6 Compliance with statutory environmental quality requirements described above may require significant capital outlays, significantly affect our earning power, or cause material changes in our intended activities. Environmental standards imposed by federal, state, or local governments may be changed or become more stringent in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our proposed activities. Because the price of metals fluctuate, if the prices of metals in our ore body decrease below a specified level, it may no longer be profitable to develop our NorthMet Project for those metals and we will cease operations. Prices of metals are determined by some of the following factors: • global and regional supply and demand; • political and economic conditions and production costs in major metal producing regions; • the strength of the United States dollar; and • expectations for inflation. The aggregate effect of these factors on metals prices is impossible for us to predict. In addition, the prices of metals are sometimes subject to rapid short-term and/or prolonged changes because of speculative activities. The current demand for and supply of various metals affect the prices of copper, nickel, cobalt, platinum, palladium and gold, but not necessarily in the same manner as current supply and demand affect the prices of other commodities. The supply of these metals primarily consists of new production from mining. If the prices of copper, nickel, cobalt, platinum, palladium and gold are, for a substantial period, below our foreseeable costs of production, we could cease operations. We are dependent on our key personnel. Our success depends on key members of our management. The loss of the services of one or more of such key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to manage exploration and development activities, and hence our success, will depend in large part on the efforts of these individuals. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. We may not be able to raise the funds necessary to develop the NorthMet Project. If we are unable to raise such additional funds, we will have to suspend or cease operations. We will need to seek additional financing to complete our development and construction of the NorthMet Project. Sources of such external financing include future equity and debt offerings, advance payments by potential customers to secure long-term supply contracts, grants and low-cost debt from certain state financial institutions, and commercial debt secured by the NorthMet Project. If we cannot raise the money necessary to continue to explore and develop our property, we will have to suspend or cease operations. Our metals exploration and development efforts are highly speculative in nature and may be unsuccessful. As a development stage company, our work is speculative and involves unique and greater risks than are generally associated with other businesses. The development of mineral deposits involves uncertainties, which careful evaluation, experience, and knowledge cannot eliminate. Few properties explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. It is impossible to ensure that the current development program we have planned will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. 7 We are subject to all the risks inherent to the mining industry, which may have an adverse affect on our business operations. We are subject to all of the risks inherent in the mining industry, including, without limitation, the following: • Success in discovering and developing commercially viable quantities of minerals is the result of a number of factors, including the quality of management, the interpretation of geological data, the level of geological and technical expertise and the quality of land available for exploration; • Exploration for minerals is highly speculative and involves substantial risks, even when conducted on properties known to contain significant quantities of mineralization, and most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore; • Operations are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and development, permitting procedures, safety precautions, property reclamation, employee health and safety, air and water quality standards, pollution and other environmental protection controls, all of which are subject to change and are becoming more stringent and costly to comply with; • A large number of factors beyond our control, including fluctuations in metal prices and production costs, inflation, the proximity and liquidity of precious metals and energy fuels markets and processing equipment, government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection, and other economic conditions, will affect the economic feasibility of mining; • Substantial expenditures are required to construct mining and processing facilities; • Title to mining properties may be subject to other claims; and • In the development stage of a mining operation, our mining activities could be subject to substantial operating risks and hazards, including metal bullion losses, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labor disputes, encountering unusual or unexpected geologic formations or other geological or grade problems, encountering unanticipated ground or water conditions, cave- ins, pit-wall failures, flooding, rock falls, periodic interruptions due to inclement weather conditions or other unfavorable operating conditions and other acts of God. Some of these risks and hazards are not insurable or may be subject to exclusion or limitation in any coverage which we obtain or may not be insured due to economic considerations. Our actual mineral reserves and mineral resources may not conform to our established estimates. The figures for mineral reserves and mineral resources stated in this Annual Report are estimates and no assurances can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery will be realized. Market fluctuations and the prices of metals may render reserves and mineral resources uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral deposits, such as the need for the orderly development of the deposits or the processing of new or different grades of ore, may cause a mining operation to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources, not currently classified as mineral reserves, will ever be classified as mineral reserves under the disclosure standards of the SEC. Item 4.D of this Annual Report discusses our mineral resources in accordance with NI 43-101. Resources are classified as “measured resources”, “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” under NI 43-101. However, U.S. investors are cautioned that the SEC does not recognize these resource classifications. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources, not currently classified as mineral reserves, will be converted into mineral reserves under the disclosure standards of the SEC. 8 We have had no production history and we do not know if we will generate revenues in the future. While we were incorporated in 1981, we have no history of producing minerals. We have not developed or operated any mines and we have no operating history upon which an evaluation of our future success or failure can be made. We currently have no mining operations of any kind. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitable mining operations is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to successfully build and operate mines, processing plants and related infrastructure ourselves. We may not successfully establish mining operations or profitably produce metals at any of our properties. As such, we do not know if we will ever generate revenues. We have a history of losses, which we expect will continue for the future. If we do not begin to generate revenues we may either have to suspend or cease operations. As a development stage company with no holdings in any producing mines, we continue to incur losses and expect to incur losses in the future. As at January 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $103.8 million. We may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. If we do not begin to generate revenues we may either have to suspend or cease operations. We have prepared our consolidated financial statements on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities in the normal course of operations. We currently have negative cash flow from operating activities and cannot predict if or when we will operate profitably to generate positive cash flows. We have taken steps to fund our operations through the issuance of equity and debt. We plan to meet our financial obligations to the point at which all regulatory approvals for our NorthMet Project have been obtained and which will allow us to raise capital to construct our mine and commence commercial production. Since transitioning to a development stage entity in September 2006 we have raised $177 million in equity, $45 million of initial principal debt of which $25 million is exchangeable into equity upon receipt of permits necessary to build and operate our NorthMet Project, $4 million is secured by land acquired with proceeds from the loan and $16 million initial draw under a $30 million loan facility secured by our assets. We will need to raise sufficient funds to meet our current obligations as well as fund ongoing development, capital expenditures and administration expenses, in accordance with our spending plans for the next year. While in the past the Company has been successful in closing financing agreements with Glencore AG, a wholly owned subsidiary of Glencore plc (together “Glencore”) and other parties, there can be no assurance it will be able to do so again in the future. Factors that could affect the availability of financing include the state of international debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations and the global metals markets. We anticipate that we will be able to reach an agreement with Glencore to either extend the term of $25 million initial principal debentures convertible into our common shares at $1.2920 per share that are currently due on September 30, 2015 or convert on or before that date even if the conditions under which we could call for conversion have not been met. If, however, no such agreement is reached, we would have to repay approximately $34 million (including capitalized interest) and we do not currently have sufficient working capital to cover repayment and therefore would have to raise additional funding. 9 We may not have adequate, if any, insurance coverage for some business risks that could lead to economically harmful consequences to us. Our businesses are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including: • industrial accidents; • railroad accidents; • labor disputes; • environmental hazards; • electricity stoppages; • equipment failures; and • severe weather and other natural phenomena. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities, transportation facilities, or equipment. They could also result in personal injury or death, environmental damage, waste of resources or intermediate products, delays or interruption in mining, production or transportation activities, monetary losses and possible legal liability. The insurance we maintain against risks that are typical in our business may not provide adequate coverage. Insurance against some risks (including liabilities for environmental pollution or certain hazards or interruption of certain business activities) may not be available at a reasonable cost or at all. As a result, accidents or other negative developments involving our mining, production or transportation facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The mining industry is an intensely competitive industry, and we may have difficulty effectively competing with other mining companies in the future. We face intense competition from other mining and producing companies. In recent years, the mining industry has experienced significant consolidation among some of our competitors. We cannot assure you that the result of current or further consolidation in the industry will not adversely affect us. In addition, because mines have limited lives we must periodically seek to replace and expand our reserves by acquiring new properties. Significant competition exists to acquire properties producing, or capable of producing, copper, nickel and other metals. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, our growth prospects and profitability may suffer. We may be subject to risks relating to the global economy. Market events and conditions in recent years, including disruptions in the international credit markets and other financial systems and the deterioration of global economic conditions could impede our access to capital or increase the cost of capital. These disruptions in the credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies, including us. These disruptions could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase our cost of obtaining capital and financing for our operations. 10 RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON SHARES We may experience volatility in our share price. Our common shares are listed for trading on the TSX and on the NYSE MKT. Our shareholders may be unable to sell significant quantities of the common shares into the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of our shares, if at all. The market price of our common shares may be affected significantly by factors such as changes in our operating results, the availability of funds, fluctuations in the price of metals, the interest of investors, traders and others in development stage public companies such as us and general market conditions. In recent years the securities markets have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly development companies similar to us, have experienced wide fluctuations, which have not necessarily been related to the operating performances, underlying asset values, or the future prospects of such companies. There can be no assurance that future fluctuations in the price of our shares will not occur. A large number of shares will be eligible for future sale and may depress our share price. Our shares that are eligible for future sale may have an adverse effect on the price of our common shares. As at January 31, 2015 there were 276,351,374 of our common shares outstanding. The average trading volume for the three months prior to January 31, 2015 was approximately 21,000 shares per day on the TSX and 163,000 shares per day on the NYSE MKT. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares, or a perception that such sales could occur, and the existence of options or warrants to purchase common shares and debt convertible into common shares at prices that may be below the then current market price of our common shares, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Your ownership interest, voting power and the market price of our common shares may decrease because we have issued, and may continue to issue, a substantial number of securities convertible or exercisable into our common shares. We have issued common shares, options, restricted shares, restricted share units, convertible debt and warrants to purchase our common shares to satisfy our obligations and fund our operations (see Item 5.A). Since we currently do not have a source of revenue, we will likely issue additional common shares, options, warrants, preferred shares or other securities exercisable for or convertible into our common shares to raise money for our continued operations or as non-cash incentives to our own and our subsidiaries' directors, officers, and key employees. If conversions of warrants and/or options into common shares or additional sales of equity occur, your ownership interest and voting power in us will be diluted and the market price of our common shares may decrease. Under our 2007 Omnibus Share Compensation Plan, as amended and restated (“Omnibus Plan”), the aggregate number of share options, restricted shares, restricted share units, and other share-based awards is restricted to 10% of our issued and outstanding common shares on the grant date, excluding 2,500,000 common shares pursuant to an exemption approved by the Toronto Stock Exchange. We have a Shareholders Rights Plan Agreement and certain employment and management contracts that contain provisions designed to discourage a change of control. A Shareholders Rights Plan was approved in May 2004, modified and further ratified and reconfirmed by shareholders most recently in July 2013. Under the Shareholders’ Rights Plan, if a shareholder individually or in concert with other shareholders acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common shares without complying with the Shareholders’ Rights Plan or without the approval of our Board of Directors, all holders of record will have a right to one common share for each common share owned. We have also entered into agreements with certain key employees and officers that contain severance provisions in the event of a take-over bid. The Shareholders’ Rights Plan and the preceding agreements may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such a change of control is more beneficial to shareholders. 11 Because we believe that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC”, U.S. holders of our common shares may be subject to United States federal income tax consequences that are worse than those that would apply if we were not a PFIC. Because we believe that we will be classified as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our common shares may be subject to United States federal income tax consequences that are worse than those that would apply if we were not a PFIC, such as ordinary income treatment plus a charge in lieu of interest upon a sale or disposition of our common shares even if the shares were held as a capital asset. See further discussion in Item 10(E). Absence of Dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common shares and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that our board of directors will ever declare cash dividends, which action is exclusively within its discretion. Investors cannot expect to receive a dividend on our common shares in the foreseeable future, if at all. 12 