D. Risk Factors Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission include the risks described below. You should also refer to the other information in this Annual Report, including the financial statements and accompanying notes thereto. 2 RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We may experience delays, higher than expected costs, difficulties in obtaining environmental permits and other obstacles when implementing our capital expenditure projects. We are investing heavily in various facets of our NorthMet Project. Our project is subject to a number of risks that may make it less successful than anticipated, including: we may encounter delays or higher than expected costs in obtaining the necessary equipment or services to build and operate our projects, and adverse mining conditions may delay and hamper our ability to produce the expected quantities of minerals. Our future activities could be subject to environmental laws and regulations which may have a materially adverse effect on our future operations, in which case our operations could be suspended or terminated. We, like other development stage companies doing business in the United States and Canada, are subject to a variety of federal, provincial, state and local statutes, rules and regulations designed to, among other things: protect the environment, including the quality of the air and water in the vicinity of exploration, development, and mining operations; remediate the environmental impacts of those exploration, development, and mining operations; protect and preserve wetlands and endangered species, and mitigate negative impacts on certain archeological and cultural sites. We are required to obtain various governmental permits to conduct exploration, development, construction and mining activities at our properties. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is often a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous U.S. or Canadian federal, provincial, state, and local agencies. The duration and success of each permitting effort is contingent upon many variables not within our control. In the context of obtaining permits or approvals, we must comply with known standards, existing laws, and regulations that may entail greater or lesser costs and delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of the laws and regulations implemented by the permitting authority. The failure to obtain certain permits or the adoption of more stringent permitting requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, and properties and we may be unable to proceed with our exploration and development programs. Federal legislation and implementing regulations adopted and administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, Fish and Wildlife Service, Mine Safety and Health Administration, and other federal agencies, and legislation such as the Federal Clean Water Act, Clean Air Act, National Environmental Policy Act, Endangered Species Act, and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, have a direct bearing on U.S. exploration, development and mining operations. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the permitting process, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain required approvals for proposed activities at any of our properties in a timely manner, or that our proposed activities will be allowed at all. The process of obtaining federal and local regulatory approvals is increasingly cumbersome, time-consuming, and expensive, and the cost and uncertainty associated with the permitting process could have a material adverse effect on exploring, developing or mining our properties. Moreover, compliance with statutory environmental quality requirements described above may require significant capital outlays, significantly affect our earning power, or cause material changes in our intended activities. Environmental 3 standards imposed by federal, state, or local governments may be changed or become more stringent in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our proposed activities. Because the price of metals fluctuate, if the prices of metals in our ore body decrease below a specified level, it may no longer be profitable to develop our NorthMet Project for those metals and we will cease operations. Prices of metals are determined by some of the following factors: expectations for inflation; the strength of the United States dollar; global and regional supply and demand, and political and economic conditions and production costs in major metals producing regions of the world. The aggregate effect of these factors on metals prices is impossible for us to predict. In addition, the prices of metals are sometimes subject to rapid short-term and/or prolonged changes because of speculative activities. The current demand for and supply of various metals affect the prices of copper, nickel, cobalt, platinum, palladium and gold, but not necessarily in the same manner as current supply and demand affect the prices of other commodities. The supply of these metals primarily consists of new production from mining. If the prices of copper, nickel, cobalt, platinum, palladium and gold are, for a substantial period, below our foreseeable costs of production, we could cease operations. We are dependent on our key personnel Our success depends on key members of our management. The loss of the services of one or more of such key management personnel could have a material adverse effect us. Our ability to manage exploration and development activities, and hence our success, will depend in large part on the efforts of these individuals. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. We may not be able to raise the funds necessary to develop our mineral properties. If we are unable to raise such additional funds, we will have to suspend or cease operations. We will need to seek additional financing to complete our development and construction of the NorthMet Project. Sources of such external financing include future equity offerings, advance payments by potential customers to secure long-term supply contracts, grants and low-cost debt from certain state financial institutions, and commercial debt secured by the NorthMet Project. The failure to obtain such additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to secure the financing necessary to sustain exploration and development activities in the future. If we cannot raise the money necessary to continue to explore and develop our property, we will have to suspend or cease operations. Our metals exploration and development efforts are highly speculative in nature and may be unsuccessful. As a development stage company, our work is speculative and involves unique and greater risks than are generally associated with other businesses. The development of mineral deposits involves uncertainties, which careful evaluation, experience, and knowledge cannot eliminate. Although the discovery of an ore body may result in substantial rewards, few properties explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. It is impossible to ensure that the current development program we have planned will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from successful exploration efforts. 4 We are subject to all of the risks inherent in the mining industry, including, without limitation, the following: Success in discovering and developing commercially viable quantities of minerals is the result of a number of factors, including the quality of management, the interpretation of geological data, the level of geological and technical expertise and the quality of land available for exploration; Exploration for minerals is highly speculative and involves substantial risks, even when conducted on properties known to contain significant quantities of mineralization, and most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore; Operations are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and development, permitting procedures, safety precautions, property reclamation, employee health and safety, air and water quality standards, pollution and other environmental protection controls, all of which are subject to change and are becoming more stringent and costly to comply with; A large number of factors beyond our control, including fluctuations in metal prices and production costs, inflation, the proximity and liquidity of precious metals and energy fuels markets and processing equipment, government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection, and other economic conditions, will affect the economic feasibility of mining; Substantial expenditures are required to construct mining and processing facilities; Title to mining properties may be subject to other claims, and In the development stage of a mining operation, our mining activities could be subject to substantial operating risks and hazards, including metal bullion losses, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labor disputes, encountering unusual or unexpected geologic formations or other geological or grade problems, encountering unanticipated ground or water conditions, cave- ins, pit-wall failures, flooding, rock falls, periodic interruptions due to inclement weather conditions or other unfavorable operating conditions and other acts of God. Some of these risks and hazards are not insurable or may be subject to exclusion or limitation in any coverage which we obtain or may not be insured due to economic considerations. As a result of all of these factors, we may run out of money, in which case we will have to suspend or cease operations. Our actual mineral reserves and mineral resources may not conform to our established estimates. The figures for mineral reserves and mineral resources stated in this Annual Report are estimates and no assurances can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery will be realized. Market fluctuations and the prices of metals may render reserves and mineral resources uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral deposits, such as the need for the orderly development of the deposits or the processing of new or different grades of ore, may cause a mining operation to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources will ever be classified as mineral reserves under the disclosure standards of the SEC. Item 4.D of this Annual Report discusses our mineral resources in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 – Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”). Resources are classified as “measured resources”, “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” under NI 43-101. However, U.S. investors are cautioned that the SEC does not recognize these resource classifications. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources will be converted into mineral reserves under the disclosure standards of the SEC. 5 We have had no production history and we do not know if we will generate revenues in the future. While we were incorporated in 1981, we have no history of producing minerals. We have not developed or operated any mines, and we have no operating history upon which an evaluation of our future success or failure can be made. We currently have no mining operations of any kind. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitable mining operations is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to either attract a partner to operate, or to successfully build and operate mines, processing plants and related infrastructure ourselves. We are subject to all the risks associated with establishing new mining. We may not successfully establish mining operations or profitably produce metals at any of our properties. As such, we do not know if we will ever generate revenues. We have a history of losses which we expect will continue for the future. If we do not begin to generate revenues or find alternate sources of capital, we may either have to suspend or cease operations. As a development stage company with no holdings in any producing mines, we continue to incur losses and expect to incur losses in the future. As of January 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $56,289,000. We may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. If we do not begin to generate revenues or find alternate sources of capital, we may either have to suspend or cease operations. We may not have adequate, if any, insurance coverage for some business risks that could lead to economically harmful consequences to us. Our businesses are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including: industrial accidents; railroad accidents; labor disputes; environmental hazards; electricity stoppages; equipment failure, and severe weather and other natural phenomena. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities, transportation facilities, or equipment. They could also result in personal injury or death, environmental damage, waste of resources or intermediate products, delays or interruption in mining, production or transportation activities, monetary losses and possible legal liability. The insurance we maintain against risks that are typical in our business may not provide adequate coverage. Insurance against some risks (including liabilities for environmental pollution or certain hazards or interruption of certain business activities) may not be available at a reasonable cost or at all. As a result, accidents or other negative developments involving our mining, production or transportation facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The mining industry is an intensely competitive industry, and we may have difficulty effectively competing with other mining companies in the future. We face intense competition from other mining and producing companies. In recent years, the mining industry has experienced significant consolidation among some of our competitors, as a result these 6 companies may be more diversified than us. We cannot assure you that the result of current or further consolidation in the industry will not adversely affect us. In addition, because mines have limited lives we must periodically seek to replace and expand our reserves by acquiring new properties. Significant competition exists to acquire properties producing or capable of producing copper, nickel and other metals. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, our growth prospects and profitability may suffer. RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR STOCK We may experience volatility in our stock price. Our common shares are listed for trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange and on the American Stock Exchange. Our shareholders may be unable to sell significant quantities of the common shares into the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of the shares, if at all. The market price of our common shares may be affected significantly by factors such as changes in our operating results, the availability of funds, fluctuations in the price of metals, the interest of investors, traders and others in development stage public companies such as us and general market conditions. In recent years the securities markets have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small capitalization development companies similar to us, have experienced wide fluctuations, which have not necessarily been related to the operating performances, underlying asset values, or the future prospects of such companies. There can be no assurance that future fluctuations in the price of our shares will not occur. A large number of shares will be eligible for future sale and may depress our stock price. Our shares that are eligible for future sale may have an adverse effect on the price of our stock. As of January 31, 2008 there were 136,991,075 of our common shares outstanding. The average trading volume for the three months prior to January 31, 2008 was approximately 85,000 shares per day on the Toronto Stock Exchange and 212,000 shares per day on the American Stock Exchange. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares, or a perception that such sales could occur, and the existence of options or warrants to purchase common shares at prices that may be below the then current market price of our common shares, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Your ownership interest, voting power and the market price of our common shares may decrease because we have issued, and may continue to issue, a substantial number of securities convertible or exercisable into our common shares. We have issued common shares and options, and warrants to purchase our common shares to satisfy our obligations and fund our operations (see Item 5.A). Since we currently do not have a source of revenue, we will likely issue additional common shares, options, warrants, preferred stock or other securities exercisable for or convertible into our common shares to raise money for our continued operations or as non-cash incentives to our own and our subsidiaries' directors, officers, insiders, and key employees. If additional sales of equity occur, your ownership interest and voting power in us will be diluted and the market price of our common shares may decrease. Under our 2007 Omnibus Share Compensation Plan (the “Plan”) which was adopted on May 25, 2007, and approved by our shareholders on June 27, 2007, the aggregate number of Common Shares that may be issuable pursuant to the Plan may not at any time exceed the greater of (i) 10% of our issued and outstanding common shares and (ii)18,592,888 common shares, representing 13.62% of our outstanding common shares at the time of the approval of the Plan, of which 5,940,000 common shares are reserved for issuance as awards other than options. As of January 31, 2008 the aggregate number of Common 7 Shares issuable pursuant to the Plan was 13,655,887 shares. Our bonus share incentive plan (the “Bonus Plan”) was established for our directors and key employees and was approved by the disinterested shareholders at the Company’s shareholders’ meeting held on May 28, 2004. Under the Bonus Plan we may issue an additional 4,940,000 shares upon achieving certain milestones. Upon any issuances or exercise of options issued, the ownership interests and voting power of existing shareholders may be further diluted. We have a Shareholders Rights Plan Agreement and certain employment and management contracts that contain provisions designed to discourage a change of control. An updated Shareholders Rights Plan between us and shareholders effective as of June 27, 2007 and certain employment and management agreements contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control without our board of directors’ approval. Under the Shareholders’ Rights Plan, if a shareholder individually or in concert with other shareholders acquires 20% or more of our common shares outstanding without complying with the Shareholders’ Rights Plan or without the approval of our board of directors, all holders of record will have a right to one common share for each share owned. We have also entered into agreements with certain key employees and officers that contain severance provisions in the event of a take-over bid. The Shareholders’ Rights Plan and the preceding agreements may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such a change of control is more beneficial to shareholders. Because we believe that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a PFIC), U.S. holders of our common shares may be subject to United States federal income tax consequences that are worse than those that would apply if we were not a PFIC. Because we believe that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a PFIC), U.S. holders of our common shares may be subject to United States federal income tax consequences that are worse than those that would apply if we were not a PFIC, such as ordinary income treatment plus a charge in lieu of interest upon a sale or disposition of our common shares even if the shares were held as a capital asset. See “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences”. Conflicts of Interest Certain of our directors, officers or promoters are directors, officers, significant shareholders or promoters of other U.S. and Canadian publicly traded companies. As a result, potential conflicts of interest may arise with respect to the exercise by such persons of their respective duties for us. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of our directors, a director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. In the appropriate cases, we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. Other than as indicated, we have no other procedures or mechanisms to deal with conflicts of interest. We are not aware of any conflicts of interest at the present time. Absence of Dividends We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common shares and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that our board of directors will ever declare cash dividends, which action is exclusively within its discretion. Investors cannot expect to receive a dividend on our common shares in the foreseeable future, if at all. Increased Costs and Compliance Risks as a Result of Being a Public Company Legal, accounting and other expenses associated with public company reporting requirements have increased significantly in the past few years. We anticipate that general and administrative costs 8 associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase with recently adopted governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC, Canadian Securities Administrators, the AMEX and the TSX. We expect these rules and regulations to significantly increase its legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. There can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively meet all of the requirements of these new regulations, including Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and Canadian Multilateral Instrument 52-109 – Financial Disclosure (“MI 52-109”). Any failure to effectively implement new or improved internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm providing an adverse opinion regarding management’s assessment. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We also expect these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and it may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and/or MI 52-109 could be impaired, which could cause the our stock price to decrease. 