risk factors contained in this and other documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISORS Not required. ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not required. 1 ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION A. Selected Financial Data The following table presents selected financial information. Our financial statements are stated in United States Dollars and are prepared in accordance with Canadian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP); the application of which conforms in all material respects for the periods presented with US GAAP, except as disclosed in footnotes to the financial statements. Selected Financial Data (US$ in 000’s) Year Ended 1/31/06 Year Ended 1/31/05 Year Ended 1/31/04 Year Ended 1/31/03 Year Ended 1/31/02 Revenue $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — Income (loss) from Operations $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — Net Loss $ (15,930 ) $ (3,776 ) $ (147 ) $ (472 ) $ (1,156 ) US GAAP Net Loss1 $ (15,930 ) $ (3,776 ) $ (147 ) $ (469 ) $ (1,226 ) Loss Per Share $ (0.22 ) $ (0.07 ) $ — $ (0.04 ) $ (0.04 ) US GAAP Loss Per Share $ (0.22 ) $ (0.07 ) $ — $ (0.04 ) $ (0.04 ) Diluted Net Loss Per Share $ (0.22 ) $ (0.07 ) $ — $ (0.01 ) $ (0.04 ) Dividends Per Share $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — Weighted Average Shares1 73,484,000 51,946,000 32,452,000 32,658,000 31,925,000 Working Capital $ 9,071 $ 1,274 $ 424 $ (73 ) $ 322 Total Assets $ 26,035 $ 2,350 $ 1,025 $ 52 $ 504 US GAAP Total Assets3 $ 26,035 $ 2,350 $ 1,025 $ 52 $ 504 Long-Term Debt $ 1,421 $ — $ — $ — $ — Shareholders’ Equity $ 19,387 $ 2,019 $ 926 $ (31 ) $ 441 US GAAP Shareholders’ Equity3 $ 19,387 $ 2,019 $ 926 $ (29 ) $ 441 Capital Stock $ 53,453,739 $ 20,156,740 $ 15,286,816 $ 14,183,450 $ 14,285,450 US GAAP Mineral Properties2 3 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — 1 Under US GAAP, contingently-cancelable (and escrowed) common shares would not have been included in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares used to determine EPS. We have no such shares. 2 Under Canadian GAAP, mineral properties may be carried at cost and written-off or written-down if the properties are abandoned, sold, or if management decides not to pursue the properties. Under US GAAP, mineral properties are carried at the lesser of cost and net realizable value based on periodic review supported by independent reports. In 2003, we changed our accounting policy to conform to the US GAAP method and therefore there are no differences between our presentation under Canadian and US GAAP and SEC regulations in our financial statements. 3 Under US GAAP, long-term investments would be written down to market value on an individual basis and charged to a contra-equity account for unrealized losses on investments. All monetary amounts in this annual report are expressed in United States dollars unless otherwise indicated. D. Risk Factors An investment in our common shares is speculative and subject to a number of risks. Only those persons who can bear the risk of the entire loss of their investment should participate. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information that we file with the SEC and with Canadian securities regulators before investing in our common shares. The risks described below are not the only ones faced. Additional risks that we are aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may become important factors that affect our business in the future. If any of the following risks occur, or if others occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be seriously harmed and our investors may lose all of their investment. 2 RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Our metals exploration efforts are highly speculative in nature and may be unsuccessful. As a pre-feasibility stage company, our work is speculative and involves unique and greater risks than are generally associated with other businesses. We cannot know if our properties contain commercially viable ore bodies or reserves until additional evaluation work concludes that development of and production from the ore body is technically, economically, and legally feasible. There is no known body of commercial ore on the NorthMet Project and there is no certainty that the expenditures made to complete the Definitive Feasibility Study, or otherwise will establish the existence of a commercial orebody. The development of mineral deposits involves uncertainties, which careful evaluation, experience, and knowledge cannot eliminate. Although the discovery of an ore body may result in substantial rewards, few properties explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. It is impossible to ensure that the current pre-feasibility programs we have planned will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from successful exploration efforts. We are subject to all of the risks inherent in the mining industry, including, without limitation, the following: · Success in discovering and developing commercially viable quantities of minerals is the result of a number of factors, including the quality of management, the interpretation of geological data, the level of geological and technical expertise and the quality of land available for exploration; · Exploration for minerals is highly speculative and involves substantial risks, even when conducted on properties known to contain significant quantities of mineralization, and most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore; · Operations are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and development, permitting procedures, safety precautions, property reclamation, employee health and safety, air and water quality standards, pollution and other environmental protection controls, all of which are subject to change and are becoming more stringent and costly to comply with; · A large number of factors beyond our control, including fluctuations in metal prices and production costs, inflation, the proximity and liquidity of precious metals and energy fuels markets and processing equipment, government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection, and other economic conditions, will affect the economic feasibility of mining; · Substantial expenditures are required to establish proven and probable ore reserves through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities; and · If we proceed to the development stage of a mining operation, our mining activities could be subject to substantial operating risks and hazards, including metal bullion losses, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labor disputes, encountering unusual or unexpected geologic formations or other geological or grade problems, encountering unanticipated ground or water conditions, cave-ins, pit-wall failures, flooding, rock falls, periodic interruptions due to inclement weather conditions or other unfavorable operating conditions and other acts of God. Some of these risks and hazards are not insurable or may be subject to exclusion or limitation in any coverage which we obtain or may not be insured due to economic considerations. 3 As a result of all of these factors, we may run out of money, in which case we will have to suspend or cease operations which could result in the loss of your investment. We have had no production history and we do not know if we will generate revenues in the future. If we do not, you may lose your investment. While we were incorporated in 1981, we have no history of producing minerals. We have not developed or operated any mines, and we have no operating history upon which an evaluation of our future success or failure can be made. We currently have no mining operations of any kind. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitable mining operations is dependent upon a number of factors, including: · our ability to locate an economically feasible mineral property; and · our ability to either attract a partner to operate, or to successfully build and operate mines, processing plants and related infrastructure ourselves. We are subject to all the risks associated with establishing new mining. We may not successfully establish mining operations or profitably produce metals at any of our properties. As such, we do not know if we will ever generate revenues. If we do not generate revenues, you may lose your investment in our common stock. We have a history of losses which we expect to continue into the future. If we do not begin to generate revenues or find alternate sources of capital, we will either have to suspend or cease operations, in which case you will lose your investment. As a pre-feasibility stage company that with no holdings in any producing mines, we continue to incur losses and expect to incur losses in the future. As of January 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $34,067,125. We may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. If we do not begin to generate revenues or find alternate sources of capital, we may either have to suspend or cease operations, in which case you will lose your investment. We may not be able to raise the funds necessary to explore our mineral properties. If we are unable to raise such additional funds, we will have to suspend or cease operations in which case you will lose your investment. We estimate that approximately $13,000,000 will be required to fund our operations for the next 12 months, which will be primarily used to advance our NorthMet Project. We may need to seek additional financing from the public or private debt or equity markets to continue our business activities. We have completed several private placements with certain investors during fiscal 2006, however, we do not know that these investors will continue to advance funds to us or that our efforts to obtain financing will be successful. We will need to seek additional financing to complete our development of NorthMet. Sources of such external financing include future equity offerings, advance payments by potential customers to secure long-term supply contracts, grants and low-cost debt from certain state financial institutions, and commercial debt secured by the NorthMet project. The failure to obtain such additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to secure the financing necessary to sustain exploration and development activities in the future. If we cannot raise the money necessary to continue to explore and develop our property, we will have to suspend or cease operations and you could lose your investment. 4 Our actual mineral resources may not conform to our established estimates. The figures for mineral resources stated in this Annual Report are estimates and no assurances can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery will be realized. Market fluctuations and the prices of metals may render resources uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral deposits, such as the need for the orderly development of the deposits or the processing of new or different grades of ore, may cause a mining operation to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources will ever be classified as reserves under the disclosure standards of the SEC. Item 4.D of this Annual Report discusses our mineral resources in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101. Resources are classified as “measured resources”, “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” under NI 43-101. However, U.S. investors are cautioned that the SEC does not recognize these resource classifications. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources will be converted into reserves under the disclosure standards of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Our future activities could be subject to environmental laws and regulations which may have a materially adverse effect on our future operations, in which case our operations could be suspended or terminated and you could lose your investment. We, like other pre-feasibility stage companies doing business in the United States and Canada, are subject to a variety of federal, provincial, state and local statutes, rules and regulations designed: · to protect the environment, including the quality of the air and water in the vicinity of exploration, development, and mining operations; · to remediate the environmental impacts of those exploration, development, and mining operations; · to protect and preserve wetlands and endangered species; and · to mitigate negative impacts on certain archeological and cultural sites. We are required to obtain various governmental permits to conduct exploration at our properties. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is often a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous U.S. or Canadian federal, provincial, state, and local agencies. The duration and success of each permitting effort is contingent upon many variables not within our control. In the context of obtaining permits or approvals, we must comply with known standards, existing laws, and regulations that may entail greater or lesser costs and delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of the laws and regulations implemented by the permitting authority. The failure to obtain certain permits or the adoption of more stringent permitting requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, and properties and we may be unable to proceed with our exploration and development programs which will result in the loss of your investment. Federal legislation and implementing regulations adopted and administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, Fish and Wildlife Service, Mine Safety and Health Administration, and other federal agencies, and legislation such as the Federal Clean Water Act, Clean Air Act, National Environmental Policy Act, Endangered Species Act, and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, have a direct bearing on U.S. exploration, development and mining operations. Due to the uncertainties inherent in the permitting process, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain required approvals for proposed activities at any of our properties in a timely manner, or that our proposed activities will be allowed at all. 5 The process in obtaining federal and local regulatory approvals is increasingly cumbersome, time-consuming, and expensive, and the cost and uncertainty associated with the permitting process could have a material effect on exploring, developing or mining our properties. Moreover, compliance with statutory environmental quality requirements described above may require significant capital outlays, significantly affect our earning power, or cause material changes in our intended activities. Environmental standards imposed by federal, state, or local governments may be changed or become more stringent in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our proposed activities. As a result of these matters, our operations could be suspended or cease entirely, in which case you could lose your investment. Because the price of metals fluctuate, if the price of metals for which we are exploring decreases below a specified level, it may no longer be profitable to explore for those metals and we will cease operations. Prices of metals are determined by some of the following factors: · expectations for inflation; · the strength of the United States dollar; · global and regional supply and demand; and · political and economic conditions and production costs in major metals producing regions of the world. The aggregate effect of these factors on metals prices is impossible for us to predict. In addition, the prices of metals are sometimes subject to rapid short-term and/or prolonged changes because of speculative activities. The current demand for and supply of various metals affect the prices of copper, nickel, cobalt, platinum, palladium and gold, but not necessarily in the same manner as current supply and demand affect the prices of other commodities. The supply of these metals primarily consists of new production from mining. If the prices of copper, nickel, cobalt, platinum, palladium and gold are, for a substantial period, below our foreseeable costs of production, we could cease operations and you could lose your entire investment. We may not have adequate, if any, insurance coverage for some business risks that could lead to economically harmful consequences to us. Our businesses are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including: · industrial accidents; · railroad accidents; · labor disputes; · environmental hazards; · electricity stoppages; · equipment failure; and · severe weather and other natural phenomena. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities, transportation facilities, or equipment. They could also result in personal injury or death, environmental damage, waste of resources or intermediate products, delays or interruption in mining, production or transportation activities, monetary losses and possible legal liability. The insurance we maintain against risks that are typical in our business may not provide adequate coverage. Insurance against some risks (including liabilities for environmental pollution or certain hazards or interruption of certain business activities) may not be available at a reasonable cost or at all. As a result, accidents or other negative developments involving our mining, production or transportation facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 6 The mining industry is an intensely competitive industry, and we may have difficulty effectively competing with other mining companies in the future. We face intense competition from other mining and producing companies. In recent years, the mining industry has experienced significant consolidation among some of our competitors, as a result these companies may be more diversified than us. We cannot assure you that the result of current or further consolidation in the industry will not adversely affect us. In addition, because mines have limited lives we must periodically seek to replace and expand our reserves by acquiring new properties. Significant competition exists to acquire properties producing or capable of producing copper and other metals. We may experience delays, higher than expected costs, difficulties in obtaining environmental permits and other obstacles when implementing our capital expenditure projects. We are investing heavily to further increase our production capacity, logistics capabilities and to expand the scope of minerals we produce. Our expansion and mining projects are subject to a number of risks that may make them less successful than anticipated, including: · we may encounter delays or higher than expected costs in obtaining the necessary equipment or services to build and operate our projects; and · adverse mining conditions may delay and hamper our ability to produce the expected quantities of minerals. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, our growth prospects and profitability may suffer. RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR STOCK We may experience volatility in our stock price, which could negatively affect your investment, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you purchased your shares. Our common shares are listed for trading on the TSX Venture Exchange and, since June 26, 2006, on the American Stock Exchange. Our shareholders may be unable to sell significant quantities of the common shares into the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of the shares, if at all. The market price of our common shares may be affected significantly by factors such as changes in our operating results, the availability of funds, fluctuations in the price of metals, the interest of investors, traders and others in small pre-feasibility stage public companies such as us and general market conditions. In recent years the securities markets have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small capitalization pre-feasibility companies similar to us, have experienced wide fluctuations, which have not necessarily been related to the operating performances, underlying asset values, or the future prospects of such companies. There can be no assurance that future fluctuations in the price of our shares will not occur. A large number of shares will be eligible for future sale and may depress our stock price. Our shares that are eligible for future sale may have an adverse effect on the price of our stock. As of January 31, 2006 there were 100,173,173 shares of our common stock outstanding. The average trading volume for the three months prior to January 31, 2006 was less than 100,000 shares per day. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or a perception that such sales could occur, and the existence of options or warrants to purchase shares of common stock at prices that may be below the then current market price of the common stock, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. 7 Your ownership interest, voting power and the market price of our common stock may decrease because we have issued, and may continue to issue, a substantial number of securities convertible or exercisable into our common stock. We have issued common stock and options, and warrants to purchase our common stock to satisfy our obligations and fund our operations (see Item 5.A). In the future, because we currently do not have a source of revenue, we will likely issue additional shares of common stock, options, warrants, preferred stock or other securities exercisable for or convertible into our common stock to raise money for our continued operations or as non-cash incentives to our own and our subsidiaries' directors, officers, insiders, and key employees. If additional sales of equity occur, your ownership interest and voting power in us will be diluted and the market price of our common stock may decrease. Under our “rolling” Stock Option Plan which was adopted on October 3, 2003, approved by our shareholders on May 28, 2004, and accepted by the TSX-Venture Exchange on June 29, 2004, options may be granted equal in number to 10% of the issued and outstanding capital of the Company at the time of grant of the stock option. As of January 31, 2006 we could issue options to purchase up to 10,017,317 shares. Under our bonus share incentive plan (the “Bonus Plan”) for our directors and key employees approved by the disinterested shareholders at the Company’s shareholders’ meeting held on May 28, 2004 we may issue an addition 6,890,000 shares upon achieving certain milestones. On November 4, 2004, the Company adopted, and the shareholders approved, a revised Bonus Plan limiting the aggregate shares that may be issued under the Bonus Plan and the Company’s Amended Stock Option plan to not more than 20% of the Company’s issued and outstanding capital at the time of the issuance of options and bonus shares. Upon any issuances or exercise of options issued, the ownership interests and voting power of existing shareholders may be further diluted. We have a Shareholders Rights Plan Agreement and certain employment and management contracts that contain provisions designed to discourage a change of control. A Shareholders Rights Plan between us and shareholders effective as of December 3, 2003 and certain employment and management agreements contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control without our board of directors’ approval. Under the Shareholders Rights Plan, if a shareholder individually or in concert with other shareholders acquires 20% or more of our common shares outstanding without complying with the Shareholder Rights Plan or without the approval of our Board of Directors, all holders of record will have a right to one common share for each share owned. Each right entitles the holder to a certain number of shares, as calculated under the Rights Plan. We have also entered into agreements with certain key employees and officers that contain severance provisions in the event of a take-over bid. The Rights Plan and the preceding agreements may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such a change of control is more beneficial to shareholders. Because we believe that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a PFIC), U.S. holders of our common stock may be subject to United States federal income tax consequences that are worse than those that would apply if we were not a PFIC. Because we believe that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a PFIC), U.S. holders of our common stock may be subject to United States federal income tax consequences that are worse than those that would apply if we were not a PFIC, such as ordinary income treatment plus a charge in lieu of interest upon a sale or disposition of shares of our common stock even if the shares were held as a capital asset. See “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences.” 8 ITEM 