D. Risk Factors An investment in our common shares is highly speculative and subject to a number of risks. Only those persons who can bear the risk of the entire loss of their investment should participate. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with Canadian securities regulators before investing in our common shares. The risks described below are not the only ones faced. Additional risks that we are aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may become important factors that affect our business. If any of the following risks occur, or if others occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed and the investor may lose all of their investment. Exploration and Development Mineral exploration is a speculative business and involves a high degree of risk. There is no known body of commercial ore on the NorthMet Project and there is no certainty that the expenditures to be made by us in the exploration or completion of a Definitive Feasibility Study or otherwise will result in discoveries of commercial quantities of minerals. The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Although the discovery of an ore body may result in substantial rewards, few properties explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Significant expenditures may be required to locate and establish ore reserves, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It is impossible to ensure that the current exploration programs planned by PolyMet will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from successful exploration efforts. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit is dependent upon a number of factors. These include deposit attributes such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, current and future metal prices (which can be cyclical), and government regulations, including those relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and necessary supplies and environmental protection. The complete effect of these factors, either alone or in combination, cannot be entirely predicted, and their impact may result in PolyMet not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. 5 The figures for mineral resources stated in this Annual Report are estimates and no assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery will be realized. Market fluctuations and the prices of metals may render resources uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral deposits, such as the need for orderly development of the deposits or the processing of new or different grades of ore, may cause a mining operation to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources will ever be classified as reserves under the disclosure standards of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 4.D of this Annual Report discusses our mineral resources in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101. Resources are classified as “measured resources”, “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” under NI 43-101. However, U.S. investors are cautioned that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize these resource classifications. There is no assurance that any of our mineral resources will be converted into reserves under the disclosure standards of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Conflicts of Interest Certain directors, officers or promoters of the Company are directors, officers, significant shareholders or promoters of other publicly listed companies. As a result, potential conflicts of interest may arise with respect to the exercise by such persons of their respective duties for the Company. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the directors of the Company, a director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. In the appropriate cases, the Company will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. Other than as indicated, the Company has no other procedures or mechanisms to deal with conflicts of interest. Absence of Dividends The Company has never declared or paid cash dividends on its Common Shares and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Company's board of directors will ever declare cash dividends, which action is exclusively within its discretion. Investors cannot expect to receive a dividend on the Company's Common Shares in the foreseeable future, if at all. Dilution The Company may in the future grant to some or all of its own and its subsidiaries' directors, officers, insiders and key employees options to purchase the Company's Common Shares as non-cash incentives to those employees. Such options may be granted at exercise prices equal to market prices at time when the public market is depressed. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of the then existing shareholders of the Company may be subject to additional dilution. The Company is currently without a source of revenue and will most likely be required to issue additional securities to finance its operation and may also issue substantial additional securities to finance the development of any or all of its projects. Volatility of Common Share Price and Volume The Company's Common Shares are listed for trading on the TSX Venture Exchange. Shareholders of the Company may be unable to sell significant quantities of the Common Shares into the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of the shares, if at all. The market price of the Common Shares may be affected significantly by factors such as changes in the Company's operating results, the availability of financings, fluctuations in the price of metals, the interest of investors, traders and others in small exploration stage public companies such as the Company and general market conditions. In recent years the securities markets have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small capitalization exploration companies similar to the Company, have experienced wide fluctuations, which have not necessarily been related to the operating performances, underlying asset values or future prospects of such companies. There can be no assurance that future fluctuations in the price of the Company's shares will not occur. 6 Adverse Tax Consequences to U.S. Shareholders Resulting From the Company's PFIC Status The Company believes that it is qualified as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005 and may qualify as a PFIC in the future with respect to U.S. Holders of the Company's common shares because the only source of income is interest, a passive source of income under the PFIC rules. See Item 10 Additional Information - Taxation - United States Federal Income Tax Consequences for a more detailed discussion of material United States federal income tax consequences for U.S. Shareholders. 