Risk Factors ATK is subject to a number of risks, including those related to being a U.S. Government contractor. Some of the risks facing ATK are discussed below. ATK’s business could be adversely impacted by reductions or changes in NASA or U.S. Government military spending. As the majority of ATK’s sales are to the U.S. Government and its prime contractors, ATK depends heavily on the contracts underlying these programs. Also, significant portions of ATK’s sales come from a 23 small number of contracts. ATK’s top five contracts, all of which are contracts with the U.S. Government, accounted for approximately 38% of fiscal 2005 sales. ATK’s largest contract, the Reusable Solid Rocket Motors (RSRM) for NASA’s Space Shuttle, represented 14% of ATK’s total fiscal 2005 sales and the military small-caliber ammunition contract at Lake City contributed approximately 12% of total fiscal 2005 sales. In January 2004, President Bush announced a new vision for space exploration, which commits the United States to a long-term human and robotic program to explore the solar system, starting with a return to the Moon. The program anticipates the Space Shuttle will be retired from service as early as 2010, to be replaced by a new spacecraft and supporting exploration launch systems. Although ATK expects that the RSRM will be part of the NASA launch system supporting space exploration objectives and believes that its RSRM and RSRM derivatives will be important to achieving an affordable launch system for the alternatives now under consideration, future programs and levels of government spending cannot be predicted with certainty. The loss or significant reduction of a material program in which ATK participates could have a material adverse effect on ATK’s operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. U.S. Government contracts are also dependent on the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations for future fiscal years. In addition, most U.S. Government contracts are subject to modification if funding is changed. Any failure by Congress to appropriate additional funds to any program in which ATK participates, or any contract modification as a result of funding changes, could materially delay or terminate the program. This could have a material adverse effect on ATK’s operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. ATK may not be able to react to increases in its costs due to the nature of its U.S. Government contracts. ATK’s U.S. Government contracts can be categorized as either “cost-plus” or “fixed-price.” Cost-Plus Contracts. Cost-plus contracts are cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-incentive-fee, or cost-plus-award-fee contracts. Cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts allow ATK to recover its approved costs plus a fixed fee. Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts and cost-plus-award-fee contracts allow ATK to recover its approved costs plus a fee that can fluctuate based on actual results as compared to contractual targets for factors such as cost, quality, schedule, and performance. Fixed-Price Contracts. Fixed-price contracts are firm-fixed-price, fixed-price-incentive, or fixed-price-level-of-effort contracts. Under firm-fixed-price contracts, ATK agrees to perform certain work for a fixed price and absorb any cost underruns or overruns. Fixed-price-incentive contracts are fixed-price contracts under which the final contract prices may be adjusted based on total final costs compared to total target cost, and may be affected by schedule and performance. Fixed-price-level-of-effort contracts allow for a fixed price per labor hour, subject to a contract cap. All fixed-price contracts present the inherent risk of unreimbursed cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. The U.S. Government also regulates the accounting methods under which costs are allocated to U.S. Government contracts. 24 The following table summarizes how much each of these types of contracts contributed to ATK’s U.S. Government business in fiscal 2005: Cost-plus contracts: Cost-plus-fixed-fee 11 % Cost-plus-incentive-fee/cost-plus-award-fee 34 % Fixed-price contracts: Firm-fixed-price 52 % Fixed-price-incentive/fixed-price-level-of-effort 3 % Total 100 % ATK’s U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination. ATK is subject to the risk that the U.S. Government may terminate its contracts with its suppliers, either for its convenience or in the event of a default by the contractor. If a cost-plus contract is terminated, the contractor is entitled to reimbursement of its approved costs. If the contractor would have incurred a loss had the entire contract been performed, then no profit is allowed by the U.S. Government. If the termination is for convenience, the contractor is also entitled to receive payment of a total fee proportionate to the percentage of the work completed under the contract. If a fixed-price contract is terminated, the contractor is entitled to receive payment for items delivered to and accepted by the U.S. Government. If the termination is for convenience, the contractor is also entitled to receive fair compensation for work performed plus the costs of settling and paying claims by terminated subcontractors, other settlement expenses, and a reasonable profit on the costs incurred or committed. If a contract termination is for default: · the contractor is paid an amount agreed upon for completed and partially completed products and services accepted by the U.S. Government, · the U.S. Government is not liable for the contractor’s costs for unaccepted items, and is entitled to repayment of any advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract, and · the contractor may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. ATK is subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations, non-compliance with which may expose ATK to adverse consequences. ATK is subject to extensive and complex U.S. Government procurement laws and regulations, along with ongoing U.S. Government audits and reviews of contract procurement, performance, and administration. ATK could suffer adverse consequences if it were to fail to comply, even inadvertently, with these laws and regulations or with laws governing the export of munitions and other controlled products and commodities; or commit a significant violation of any other federal law. These consequences could include contract termination; civil and criminal penalties; and, under certain circumstances, ATK’s suspension and debarment from future U.S. Government contracts for a period of time. In addition, foreign sales are subject to greater variability and risk than ATK’s domestic sales. Foreign sales subject ATK to numerous stringent U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in material adverse consequences to ATK. 25 Novation of U.S. Government contracts involves risk. When U.S. Government contracts are transferred from one contractor to another, such as in connection with the sale of a business, the U.S. Government may require that the parties enter into a novation agreement. A novation agreement generally provides that: · the transferring contractor guarantees or otherwise assumes liability for the performance of the acquiring contractor’s obligations under the contract, · the acquiring contractor assumes all obligations under the contract, and · the U.S. Government recognizes the transfer of the contract and related assets. ATK has completed novation agreements covering U.S. Government contracts acquired in the Boeing Ordnance (now known as ATK Gun Systems) and Science and Applied Technology (now known as ATK Missile Systems) acquisitions. These novation agreements provide that ATK assumes all obligations under the acquired contracts and that the U.S. Government recognizes the transfers to ATK of the acquired contracts and related assets. Under each novation agreement, the acquired contracts are scheduled to be performed over time, and it is not expected that they will be fully and finally discharged for several years. Under each novation agreement, the seller of the respective assets has agreed to indemnify ATK against any liability that ATK may incur under the novation agreement caused by any prior failure by the seller to perform its obligations under its respective novated contracts. ATK has agreed to indemnify the seller against any liability that the seller may incur under the novation agreement caused by any failure by ATK to perform its obligations under the novated contracts. ATK was not required to novate the U.S. Government contracts acquired in the Thiokol acquisition because ATK acquired Cordant Technologies, Inc.’s (the entity that owned the assets and liabilities of the Thiokol propulsion business) stock, rather than the assets of the business. ATK has provided the U.S. Government with a corporate guarantee that its obligations under the contracts will be fulfilled. ATK did not acquire any U.S. Government contracts that required novation in the acquisition of the civil ammunition business or its recent acquisition of the PSI Group. ATK was not required to novate the U.S. Government contracts acquired in the acquisitions of Composite Optics, Inc., Micro Craft Inc., GASL, Inc. or Mission Research Corporation because ATK acquired the stock, rather than the assets of the businesses. Other risks associated with U.S. Government contracts may expose ATK to adverse consequences. In addition, like all U.S. Government contractors, ATK is subject to risks associated with uncertain cost factors related to: · scarce technological skills and components, · the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of design completion, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns, · the substantial time and effort required for design and development, · design complexity, · rapid obsolescence, and · the potential need for design improvement. ATK has a substantial amount of debt, and the cost of servicing that debt could adversely affect ATK’s business and hinder ATK’s ability to make payments on its debt. ATK has a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of March 31, 2005, ATK had total debt of $1,134 million. In addition, ATK had approximately $67.7 million of outstanding but undrawn letters of credit 26 and, taking into account these letters of credit, an additional $232.3 million of availability under its revolving credit facility. Additional information on ATK’s debt can be found under “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this report. ATK has demands on its cash resources in addition to interest and principal payments on its debt, including, among others, operating expenses. ATK’s level of indebtedness and these significant demands on ATK’s cash resources could: · make it more difficult for ATK to satisfy its obligations, · require ATK to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchases, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes, · limit ATK’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the defense and aerospace industries, · place ATK at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financing flexibility, · limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants applicable to ATK’s indebtedness, among other things, ATK’s ability to borrow additional funds, · increase ATK’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, and · result in an event of default upon a failure to comply with financial covenants contained in ATK’s senior credit facilities which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on ATK’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. ATK’s ability to pay interest on and repay its long-term debt and to satisfy its other liabilities will depend upon future operating performance and ATK’s ability to refinance its debt as it becomes due. ATK’s future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by prevailing economic conditions at that time and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond ATK’s control. If ATK is unable to service its indebtedness and fund operating costs, ATK will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may include: · reducing or delaying expenditures for capital equipment and/or share repurchases, · seeking additional debt financing or equity capital, · selling assets, or · restructuring or refinancing debt. There can be no assurance that any such strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all. ATK is subject to intense competition and therefore may not be able to compete successfully. ATK encounters competition for most contracts. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources. ATK’s ability to compete for these contracts depends to a large extent upon: · its effectiveness and innovativeness of research and development programs, · its ability to offer better program performance than the competitors at a lower cost, 27 · its readiness with respect to facilities, equipment, and personnel to undertake the programs for which it competes, and · its past performance and demonstrated capabilities. In some instances, the U.S. Government directs a program to a single supplier. In these cases, there may be other suppliers who have the capability to compete for the programs involved, but they can only enter or reenter the market if the U.S. Government chooses to open the particular program to competition. ATK’s sole-source contracts accounted for 62% of U.S. Government sales in fiscal 2005 and include the following programs: reusable solid rocket motor (RSRM) Space Shuttle boosters, Trident II missiles, Minuteman III Propulsion Replacement Program, Titan IV solid rocket motor upgrade space boosters, Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM), Hellfire, Sensor Fuzed Weapon propulsion systems, M830A1 multi-purpose tank ammunition rounds, Volcano anti-tank scatterable barriers, M789 Lightweight 30 High Explosive Dual Purpose (HEDP) for medium-caliber ammunition, the AAR-47 missile warning system, Javelin launch tubes, M829A3 tank ammunition, Solid Divert and Attitude Control Systems and Third Stage Rocket Motors (SDACS/TSRM), STARTM Motors, Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile (AARGM), Mobile Ground-to-Air Radar Jamming System (MGARJS), and the XM-29/XM-8/XM-25 Family of Gun Systems. In the commercial ammunition and accessories markets, ATK competes against manufacturers that have well-established brand names and strong market positions. ATK generally faces competition from a number of competitors in each business area, although no single competitor competes along all five of ATK’s segments. ATK’s principal competitors in each of its segments are as follows: ATK Thiokol: Aerojet-General Corporation, a subsidiary of GenCorp Inc.; Pratt & Whitney Space and Missile Propulsion of United Technologies Corporation; and Rocketdyne, Inc., a subsidiary of The Boeing Company. Ammunition: General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of General Dynamics Corporation; SNC Technologies Inc.; Winchester Ammunition of Olin Corporation; Remington; and various importers, including P.M.C., Fiocchi, and Selliers & Belloitt. Precision Systems: Aerojet-General Corporation, a subsidiary of GenCorp Inc.; General Dynamics Corporation; Lockheed Martin Corporation; Raytheon Company; Textron Inc.; L3/KDI; and L3/Bulova Technologies. Advanced Propulsion and Space Systems: Pratt & Whitney Space and Missile Propulsion of United Technologies Corporation; Aerojet-General Corporation, a subsidiary of GenCorp Inc.; The Boeing Company; Lockheed Martin Corporation; L-3 Communications Corporation; Northrop Grumman Corporation; GKN plc; AAR Corp.; Marion and Lincoln Composites, both subsidiaries of General Dynamics Corporation; Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc.; Goodrich Corporation; and Applied Aerospace Structures Corporation. ATK Mission Research: Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC); The Titan Corporation; L-3 Communications Corporation; Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corporation, a subsidiary of Ball Corporation; and Georgia University of Technology. The downsizing of the munitions industrial base has resulted in a reduction in the number of competitors through consolidations and departures from the industry. This has reduced the number of competitors for some programs, but has strengthened the capabilities of some of the remaining competitors. In addition, it is possible that there will be increasing competition from the remaining competitors in business areas where they do not currently compete, particularly in those business areas dealing with electronics. 28 Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, as well as increases in prices of raw materials, could adversely impact ATK. Key raw materials used in ATK’s operations include aluminum, steel, steel alloys, copper, brass, lead, graphite fiber, prepreg, hydroxy terminated polybutadiene, epoxy resins and adhesives, ethylene propylene diene monomer rubbers, cotton fiber, wood pulp cellulose, diethylether, x-ray film, plasticizers and nitrate esters, impregnated ablative materials, various natural and synthetic rubber compounds, polybutadiene, acrylonitrile, and ammonium perchlorate. ATK also purchases chemicals; electronic, electro-mechanical and mechanical components; subassemblies; and subsystems which are integrated with the manufactured parts for final assembly into finished products and systems. ATK closely monitors sources of supply to assure that adequate raw materials and other supplies needed in manufacturing processes are available. As a U.S. Government contractor, ATK is frequently limited to procuring materials and components from sources of supply approved by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). In addition, as business conditions, the DoD budget, and Congressional allocations change, suppliers of specialty chemicals and materials sometimes consider dropping low volume items from their product lines, which may require, as it has in the past, qualification of new suppliers for raw materials on key programs. The supply of ammonium perchlorate, a principal raw material used in ATK’s operations, is limited to a single source that supplies the entire domestic solid propellant industry. This single source, however, maintains two separate manufacturing lines a reasonable distance apart, which mitigates the likelihood of a fire, explosion, or other problem impacting all production. ATK may also rely on one primary supplier for other production materials. Although other suppliers of the same materials may exist, the addition of a new supplier may require ATK to qualify the new source for use. The qualification process may impact ATK’s profitability or ability to meet contract deliveries. Certain suppliers of materials used in the manufacturing of rocket motors have discontinued the production of some materials. These materials include certain insulation and resin materials for rocket motor cases and aerospace grade rayon for nozzles. ATK has qualified new replacement materials for some programs. For other programs, ATK or ATK’s customer has procured sufficient inventory to cover current program requirements and is in the process of qualifying new replacement materials to be qualified in time to meet future production needs. ATK’s profitability may be affected if unforeseen difficulties in developing and qualifying replacement materials occur. ATK is also impacted by increases in the prices of raw materials used in production on fixed-price contracts. Most recently, ATK has seen an increase in the price of commodity metals, primarily lead, copper, steel, and zinc. The increased cost of natural gas and electricity also has an impact on the cost of operating ATK’s factories. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of ATK’s key raw materials, difficulty completing qualification of new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, or a continuing increase in the prices of raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on ATK’s operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. Due to the volatile and flammable nature of its products, fires or explosions may disrupt ATK’s business. Many of ATK’s products involve the manufacture and/or handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials. From time to time, these activities have resulted in incidents which have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted some manufacturing processes, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. ATK has safety and loss prevention programs which require detailed pre-construction reviews of process changes and new operations, along with routine safety audits of operations involving explosive materials, to mitigate such incidents, as well as a variety of insurance policies. However, ATK cannot ensure that it will not experience similar incidents in the future or that any 29 similar incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. ATK is subject to environmental rules and regulations, non-compliance with which may expose ATK to adverse consequences. ATK’s operations and ownership or use of real property are subject to a number of federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. At certain sites that ATK owns or operates or formerly owned or operated, there is known or potential contamination that ATK is required to investigate or remediate. ATK could incur substantial costs, including remediation costs, fines, and penalties, or third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations or liabilities of environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental permits. ATK expects that a portion of its environmental compliance and remediation costs will be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts. Some of the remediation costs that are not recoverable from the U.S. Government that are associated with facilities purchased in a business acquisition may be covered by various indemnification agreements, as described below. · As part of its acquisition of the Hercules Aerospace Company in fiscal 1995, ATK assumed responsibility for environmental compliance at the facilities acquired from Hercules (the Hercules Facilities). ATK believes that a portion of the compliance and remediation costs associated with the Hercules Facilities will be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts, and that those environmental remediation costs not recoverable under these contracts will be covered by Hercules Incorporated (Hercules) under environmental agreements entered into in connection with the Hercules acquisition. Under these agreements, Hercules has agreed to indemnify ATK for environmental conditions relating to releases or hazardous waste activities occurring prior to ATK’s purchase of the Hercules Facilities; fines relating to pre-acquisition environmental compliance; and environmental claims arising out of breaches of Hercules’ representations and warranties. Hercules is not required to indemnify ATK for any individual claims below $50,000. Hercules is obligated to indemnify ATK for the lowest cost response of remediation required at the facility that is acceptable to the applicable regulatory agencies. ATK is not responsible for conducting any remedial activities with respect to the Kenvil, NJ facility or the Clearwater, FL facility. In accordance with its agreement with Hercules, ATK notified Hercules of all known contamination on federal lands on or before March 31, 2005. · ATK generally assumed responsibility for environmental compliance at the Thiokol Facilities acquired from Alcoa Inc. in fiscal 2002. While ATK expects that a portion of the compliance and remediation costs associated with the acquired Thiokol Facilities will be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts, ATK has recorded an accrual to cover those environmental remediation costs at these facilities that will not be recovered through U.S. Government contracts. In accordance with its agreement with Alcoa, ATK notified Alcoa of all known environmental remediation issues as of January 30, 2004. Of these known issues, ATK is responsible for any costs not recovered through U.S. Government contracts at Thiokol Facilities up to $29 million, ATK and Alcoa have agreed to split evenly any amounts between $29 million and $49 million, and ATK is responsible for any payments in excess of $49 million. · With respect to the civil ammunition business’ facilities purchased from Blount in fiscal 2002, Blount has agreed to indemnify ATK for certain compliance and remediation liabilities, to the extent those liabilities are related to pre-closing environmental conditions at or related to these facilities. Some other remediation costs are expected to be paid directly by a third party pursuant to an existing indemnification agreement with Blount. Blount’s indemnification obligations relating to environmental matters, which extend through December 7, 2006, are capped at $30 million, less any other indemnification payments made for breaches of representations and warranties. The third 30 party’s obligations, which extend through November 4, 2007, are capped at approximately $125 million, less payments previously made. ATK cannot ensure that the U.S. Government, Hercules, Alcoa, Blount, or other third parties will reimburse it for any particular environmental costs or reimburse ATK in a timely manner or that any claims for indemnification will not be disputed. U.S. Government reimbursements for cleanups are financed out of a particular agency’s operating budget and the ability of a particular governmental agency to make timely reimbursements for cleanup costs will be subject to national budgetary constraints. ATK’s failure to obtain full or timely reimbursement from the U.S. Government, Hercules, Alcoa, Blount, or other third parties could have a material adverse effect on its operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. In December 2001, ATK received notice from the State of Utah of a potential claim against ATK under Section 107(f) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) for natural resource damages at Bacchus, one of the Hercules Facilities, in Magna, Utah. The notice letter, which was issued to preserve the State’s rights under CERCLA, also expressly acknowledged the State’s willingness to allow ATK to go forward with its currently-planned monitoring and remediation program. The State’s preliminary estimate of damages contained in this claim was $139 million, which is based on known and alleged groundwater contamination at and near Bacchus and is related to Hercules’ manufacturing operations at the site. ATK has had discussions with the State regarding this claim and entered into a tolling agreement with the State in fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2003, ATK entered into a similar tolling agreement with the State regarding the Promontory facility that was acquired from Alcoa in the acquisition of Thiokol. These agreements effectively defer the bringing of any potential claim against ATK by the State for a period of at least 10 years. They allow ATK time to continue to identify and address the contamination by the normal and planned regulatory remediation processes in Utah. Although ATK has previously made accruals for its best estimate of the probable and reasonably estimable costs related to the remediation obligations known to ATK with respect to the affected areas, ATK cannot yet predict if or when a suit may be filed against it, nor can ATK determine any additional costs that may be incurred in connection with this matter. While ATK has environmental management programs in place to mitigate risks, and environmental laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on ATK’s operating results, financial condition, or cash flows in the past, it is difficult to predict whether they will have a material impact in the future. Backlog The total amount of Contracted Backlog was approximately $3.7 billion as of March 31, 2005, compared to $3.8 billion as of March 31, 2004. Contracted Backlog is the estimated value of contracts for which ATK is authorized to incur costs and for which orders have been recorded, but for which revenue has not yet been recognized. Included in Contracted Backlog as of March 31, 2005 was $1.1 billion of contracts that were not yet funded. Approximately 41% of Contracted Backlog as of March 31, 2005 is not expected to be filled within fiscal 2006. Total Backlog, which includes Contracted Backlog plus the value of unexercised options, was approximately $5.0 billion as of March 31, 2005 and $5.1 billion as of March 31, 2004. 31 Research and Development ATK conducts a significant amount of research and development (R&D). Company-funded R&D is primarily for the development of next-generation technology. Customer-funded R&D primarily represents R&D efforts that ATK undertakes under contracts with the U.S. Government and its prime contractors. R&D expenditures in each of the last three fiscal years were as follows: Fiscal Company-funded Research and Development Customer-funded Research and Development 2005 $ 37.9 million $ 478.1 million 2004 28.9 million 250.0 million 2003 26.8 million 231.0 million Seasonality Sales of sporting ammunition are significantly higher in ATK’s second and third fiscal quarters. ATK’s other business is generally not seasonal in nature. Employees As of March 31, 2005, ATK had approximately 14,000 employees. Approximately 12% of these employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The following table summarizes the number of these agreements, the expiration dates of the agreements, and the approximate number of employees represented. Location Number of Contracts Expiration Date Approximate Number of Employees Represented Rocket Center, WV 2 November 14, 2010 August 14, 2010 15 420 Magna, UT 1 February 15, 2007 230 Janesville, WI 1 May 30, 2005 125 Minneapolis, MN area 1 September 30, 2005 20 Radford, VA 2 October 6, 2005 November 1, 2005 745 135 Relations between ATK and unionized and non-unionized employees and their various representatives are generally considered satisfactory. However, ATK cannot ensure that new labor contracts can be agreed to without work stoppages and resultant adverse financial impacts. The expiration date of the Janesville, WI agreement coincides with ATK’s expected exit date from the facilities as noted in “Restructuring Charges” below. Patents As of March 31, 2005, ATK owned approximately 390 U.S. patents and 330 foreign patents and had approximately 150 U.S. patent applications and 215 foreign patent applications pending. Although the conduct of ATK’s business involves the manufacture of various products that are covered by patents, ATK does not believe that any one single existing patent or license or group of patents is material to the success of the business as a whole. ATK believes that unpatented research, development, and engineering skills also make an important contribution to its business. The U.S. Government typically receives royalty-free licenses to inventions made under U.S. Government contracts. In addition, ATK’s policy is to protect proprietary information from unauthorized disclosure, consistent with which, ATK ordinarily requires employees to sign confidentiality agreements as a condition of employment. 32 As many of ATK’s products and solutions include complex technology involving patented and other proprietary technologies, ATK faces a risk of claims that it has infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any such claims could result in costly and time-consuming litigation, the invalidation of intellectual property rights, or increased licensing costs. Captive Insurance Subsidiary During fiscal 2004, ATK dissolved its wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary, Alliant Assurance Ltd. (Assurance). The environmental remediation and postretirement medical and life insurance benefits liabilities that Assurance had assumed were transferred back to the parent company. ATK then established a new captive insurance subsidiary, ATK Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ATK. ATK Insurance Company provides insurance and reinsurance for the property and liability risks of ATK. The various types of insurance coverage provided includes property damage and business interruption risks, excess liability, workers’ compensation, automobile, and general liability risks. The insurance subsidiary insures directly and reinsures an admitted carrier. Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information with respect to ATK’s executive officers as of May 1, 2005: Name Age Title Daniel J. Murphy 56 Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer Dianne Deering Anton 48 Vice President, Contracts and Strategic Agreements Mark W. DeYoung 46 Senior Vice President, Ammunition Ronald D. Dittemore 53 Senior Vice President, ATK Thiokol Michael B. Dolby 46 President, ATK Mission Research John E. Gordon 64 Senior Vice President, Washington Operations Blake E. Larson 45 Senior Vice President, Advanced Propulsion and Space Systems Robert J. McReavy 46 Vice President and Treasurer Mark L. Mele 48 Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy Paula J. Patineau 51 Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administrative Services John S. Picek 50 Vice President and Controller Eric S. Rangen 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Keith D. Ross 48 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary Brian V. See 47 Vice President, Mission Assurance Donald E. Shaffer 61 Special Assistant to the Chief Executive Officer Nicholas G. Vlahakis 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Thomas R. Wilson 59 Senior Vice President, Precision Systems Each of the above individuals serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and is subject to reelection annually on the date of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. No family relationship exists among any of the executive officers or among any of them and any director of ATK. There are no outstanding loans from ATK to any of these individuals. Information regarding the employment history (in each case with ATK unless otherwise indicated) of each of the executive officers is set forth below. Daniel J. Murphy has served as CEO since October 2003, and as Chairman of the Board since April 2005. From 2002 to 2003, he was Group Vice President, Precision Systems. From 2001 to 2002, he served as President of ATK Tactical Systems Company. Prior to joining ATK in 2000, he served for 30 years in the U.S. Navy, attaining the rank of Vice Admiral. 33 Dianne Deering Anton has held her present position since 2003. From 2002 to 2003, she was Vice President, Contracts and Strategic Agreements, for the Precision Systems Group. From 1999 to 2002, she was Executive Vice President, Operations, and Vice President, Finance, and Controller for ATK Ordnance Systems. Mark W. DeYoung has served in his present position since 2002, holding the title of Senior Vice President, Ammunition, since 2004 and Group Vice President, Ammunition, from 2002 to 2004. He was President, ATK Ammunition and Related Products, from 2001 to 2002. Before that, he was President, ATK Lake City Ammunition. Ronald D. Dittemore has held his present position since 2004. Mr. Dittemore joined ATK in 2003 as assistant to the Chief Operating Officer, following a 26-year career with NASA. He served in several NASA senior executive positions, including Director of the Space Shuttle Program. Michael B. Dolby has held his present position since 2005. He was Vice President, Business Development, from 2004 to 2005, and Vice President, Mergers and Acquisitions, from 2001 to 2004. Prior to that he was Vice President, Corporate Strategic Development. John E. Gordon has held his present position since 2001. Prior to that, he was Corporate Vice President and director of Washington, D.C. Operations for Litton Industries. Mr. Gordon also worked for Northrop Grumman Corporation in the company’s Washington office. Blake E. Larson has held his present position since 2005. From 2004 to 2005, he was Vice President and General Manager, ATK Space Systems. From 2003 to 2004, he was Executive Vice President, ATK Ordnance and Ground Systems. He served as President, ATK Precision Fuze Company, from 2000 to 2003. Robert J. McReavy has held his present position since October 2001. From June 2001 until October 2001, he served as Vice President, Tax. Prior to joining ATK, he was a partner in the international public accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP, and also held partner and associate positions with two law firms. Mark L. Mele has served in his present position since 2005. He was Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations, from 2004 to 2005, and Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations, from 2001 to 2004. Prior to that he was Vice President, Investor Relations and Strategic Planning. Paula J. Patineau has held her present position since 2004. From April 2004 until November 2004, she was Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer. From 2002 to 2004, she was Vice President and Chief People Officer. She was Vice President, Human Resources, and Senior Financial Officer from 2000 to 2002. John S. Picek has held his present position since 2000. From 1997 until 2000, he served as Director of Corporate Finance. Eric S. Rangen has served in his current position since 2001, holding the title of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2004 and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2001 to 2004. Prior to that, he was a partner with the international public accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP. Keith D. Ross has held his present position since 2004. From 2001 to 2004, he served as Vice President and Assistant General Counsel. Prior to joining ATK, Mr. Ross held corporate legal positions in the manufacturing and financial services industries and was an attorney with several law firms. 34 Brian V. See has held his present position since May 2005. Prior to that he had served as Vice President, Technology, since April 2004, and as President, ATK Mission Research, since June 2004. From 2002 to 2004 he was Vice President, Technology and Quality, for the ATK Precision Systems Group. He was Director of Technology for ATK’s defense businesses from 1998 to 2002. Donald E. Shaffer has held his present position since 2005. From 2004 to 2005, he was Senior Vice President, ATK Advanced Propulsion and Space Systems Group. From 2003 to 2004, he was President, ATK Elkton. He was Vice President and General Manager, ATK Elkton, from 2000 to 2003. Nicholas G. Vlahakis has served in his present position since 2002, holding the title of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2004 and Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from 2002 to 2004. From 2001 to 2002, he was Group Vice President, Defense. Prior to that he was Group Vice President, Conventional Munitions. Thomas R. Wilson has held his present position since 2003. Mr. Wilson joined ATK in 2002 as President of ATK Missile Systems. Prior to joining ATK, he served as an intelligence officer in the U.S. Navy for 34 years, attaining the rank of Vice Admiral. Available Information ATK makes available, free of charge on its internet website, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). You can find these reports on ATK’s website at www.atk.com under the “Investor Relations” heading. These reports may also be obtained at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at (202) 942-8090. You may also access this information at the SEC’s website (http://www.sec.gov). This site contains reports, proxies, and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 