ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe are subject to a number of risks, including those related to being a U.S. Government contractor and those related to domestic and international commercial sales. The material risks we are subject to are discussed below.Our business could be adversely impacted by reductions or changes in NASA or U.S. Government military spending.We depend on contracts with the U.S. Government and its prime contractors for a substantial portion of our sales. In addition, a significant portion of such sales come from a small number of contracts. Our CRS I contract with NASA, which is reported within Flight Systems Group and Space Systems Group, comprised 11% of our sales in the 2015 transition period. Our small-caliber ammunition contract with the U.S. Army, which is reported within Defense Systems Group, comprised 7%, 13% and 9% of our sales in the 2015 transition period, fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, respectively. Our top five contracts, all of which are contracts with the U.S. Government, accounted for approximately 30% of sales in the 2015 transition period. The loss or significant reduction of a material U.S. Government program in which we participate could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows.U.S. Government contracts are dependent on the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations for future fiscal years. In addition, most U.S. Government contracts are subject to modification if funding is changed. Key programs in which we participate must compete with other programs for consideration during the federal budgeting and appropriation process, and support and funding for any U.S. Government program may be influenced by general economic conditions, political considerations and other factors. A decline in U.S. Government support and funding for programs in which we participate could result in contract terminations, delays in contract awards, the failure to exercise contract options, the cancellation of planned procurements and fewer new business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. We have several significant U.S. government contracts or subcontracts, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, which could negatively impact our financial condition and operating results if they were canceled or funded at reduced levels. One of our major programs is as the provider of solid rocket motors for NASA’s SLS program. In the event NASA were to cancel the SLS program, we believe that we will be reimbursed for certain amounts previously incurred by us, as well as amounts to be incurred by us, as part of that termination, (e.g., severance, environmental liabilities, and termination administration). There can be no assurance, however, that we would be successful in collecting reimbursement of any termination liability costs. Our CRS I contract with NASA to deliver cargo to the ISS is a significant part of our business within Flight Systems Group and Space Systems Group. On October 28, 2014, the Antares launch vehicle that was carrying our unmanned Cygnus spacecraft on a cargo delivery mission to the ISS for NASA under the CRS I contract experienced a launch failure shortly after liftoff from the Wallops Flight Facility in Virginia. We continue to fulfill our obligations to deliver all remaining cargo to the ISS under the CRS I contract, in part with the use of certain launch services purchased from another company. However, there can be no assurance that planned future Cygnus missions will occur on the contemplated timetable or will be successful. Given the right of U.S. Government customers to terminate contracts for convenience, there can be no assurance that the remaining backlog for this contract will ultimately be recognized in the Company's revenue. NASA could cancel this contract for any 10Table of Contentsreason, including as a result of reductions in appropriations or our failure to achieve milestones due to technical issues or delays. A cancellation of the CRS I contract could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.Our small-caliber ammunition operations for the U.S. military and U.S. allies are conducted at the LCAAP in Independence, Missouri. The LCAAP is the U.S. Army's principal small-caliber ammunition production facility and is the primary supplier of the U.S. military's small-caliber ammunition needs. We took over operation of this facility in 2000 and are responsible for the operation and management, including leasing excess space to third parties in the private sector. In September 2012, we were awarded a new contract for the continued production of ammunition and continued operation and maintenance of the LCAAP. The production contract runs through September 2019 and the facility contract runs through September 2020, with an option to extend the contract to 2023. As a result of the significant competition for this contract, we have experienced a reduction in profit margin in the Small Caliber Systems division following the implementation of the contract. In addition, future levels of government spending for small-caliber ammunition cannot be predicted with certainty and thus our production under this contract cannot be predicted with certainty.We are subject to intense competition for U.S. Government contracts and programs and therefore may not be able to compete successfully.We encounter competition for most contracts and programs, including in particular, U.S. government contracts. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources. Our ability to compete for these contracts depends to a large extent upon:•the creativity and effectiveness of our research and development programs,•our ability to offer better program performance and/or at a lower cost than our competitors,•the readiness of our facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programs for which we compete, and•our past performance and demonstrated capabilities.In some instances, the U.S. Government directs a program to a single supplier. In these cases, there may be other suppliers who have the capability to compete for the programs involved, but they can only enter or reenter the market if the U.S. Government chooses to open the particular program to competition and, as such, these types of programs are subject to risk of the U.S. Government providing new awards to other suppliers. Our sole-source contracts accounted for 47% of our U.S. Government sales in the 2015 transition period.We may not be able to react to increases in our costs due to the nature of our U.S. Government contracts.Our U.S. Government contracts can be categorized as either "cost-plus" or "fixed-price."Cost-Plus Contracts. Cost-plus contracts are cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-incentive-fee, or cost-plus-award-fee contracts. Cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts allow us to recover approved costs plus a fixed fee. Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts and cost-plus-award-fee contracts allow us to recover approved costs plus a fee that can fluctuate based on actual results as compared to contractual targets for factors such as cost, quality, schedule, and performance. The award or incentive fees that are typically associated with these programs are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods. In these cases, the associated financial risks for cost-plus contracts are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise.Fixed-Price Contracts. Fixed-price contracts are firm-fixed-price, fixed-price-incentive, or fixed-price-level-of-effort contracts. Under firm-fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform certain work for a fixed price and absorb any cost overruns. Fixed-price-incentive contracts are fixed-price contracts under which the final contract price may be adjusted based on total final costs compared to total target cost, and may be affected by schedule and performance. Fixed-price-level-of-effort contracts allow for a fixed price per labor hour, subject to a contract cap. All fixed-price contracts present the inherent risk of unreimbursed cost overruns. If the initial estimates used to calculate the contract price and the cost to perform the work prove to be incorrect, there could be a material adverse effect on operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. In addition, some contracts have specific provisions relating to cost, schedule, and performance. If we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, the cost to perform the work could increase or our price could be reduced, which would adversely affect our financial condition. The U.S. Government also regulates the accounting methods under which costs are allocated to U.S. Government contracts.11Table of ContentsThe following table identifies the amount contributed to our U.S. Government business by contract type in the 2015 transition period:Cost-plus contracts27%Fixed-price contracts73% Total100%We use estimates in accounting for our programs. Changes in estimates could affect our financial results.Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues, including the impact of scope change negotiations, estimating program costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complex and subject to many variables. Assumptions are made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly, many assumptions are made regarding the future impact of such things as the business base, efficiency initiatives, cost reduction efforts, contract changes and claim recovery. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. Estimates of award and incentive fees are also used in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards.Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. Additional information on our accounting policies for revenue recognition can be found under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the section titled "Critical Accounting Policies" in Item 7 of this report.Our U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination at any time, with or without cause.Our direct and indirect contracts with the U.S. Government or its prime contractors may be terminated or suspended at any time, with or without cause, for the convenience of the government or in the event of a default by the contractor. If a cost-plus contract is terminated, the contractor is entitled to reimbursement of its approved costs. If the contractor would have incurred a loss had the entire contract been performed, then no profit is allowed by the U.S. Government.If the termination is for convenience, the contractor is also entitled to receive payment of a total fee proportionate to the percentage of the work completed under the contract. If a fixed-price contract is terminated, the contractor is entitled to receive payment for items delivered to and accepted by the U.S. Government. If the termination is for convenience, the contractor is also entitled to receive fair compensation for work performed plus the costs of settling and paying claims by terminated subcontractors, other settlement expenses, and a reasonable profit on the costs incurred or committed. While the contractor is entitled to these claims under either type of contract, there can be no assurance that these amounts will be recovered.If a contract termination is for default:•the contractor is paid an amount agreed upon for completed and partially completed products and services accepted by the U.S. Government,•the U.S. Government is not liable for the contractor's costs for unaccepted items, and is entitled to repayment of any advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract, and•the contractor may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source.Other risks associated with U.S. Government contracts may expose us to adverse consequences.Like all U.S. Government contractors, we are subject to possible losses on contracts due to risks associated with uncertain cost factors related to:•scarce technological skills and components,•the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of design completion, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns,•the substantial time and effort required for design and development,12Table of Contents•design complexity,•rapid obsolescence, and•the potential need for design improvement.Such factors can increase the costs associated with a program and delay performance, reducing our profitability and adversely impacting our customer relationships. We are subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations, and non-compliance may expose us to adverse consequences.We are subject to extensive and complex U.S. Government procurement laws and regulations, along with ongoing U.S. Government audits and reviews of contract procurement, performance, and administration. As a result, U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, various agency Inspectors General and the U.S. Department of Justice, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. In particular, these agencies often investigate our launch vehicle failures and other material occurrences relating to our products, including an ongoing DOJ/NASA investigation of the 2009 OCO and 2011 Glory failures involving the Taurus XL launch vehicle. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, including procurement integrity laws and the False Claims Act. Charging practices relating to labor, research and development, and other costs that may be charged directly or indirectly to U.S. Government contracts are often scrutinized to determine that such costs are allowable under U.S. Government contracts and furthermore that such costs are reasonable. Any costs determined to be unallowable or unreasonable may not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed may be subject to repayment. If the amount of such costs were significant, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. We expect to recover a significant portion of our research and development expenses through billings under certain of our U.S. Government contracts in accordance with applicable regulations, but such billings could be reversed or rejected by the U.S. Government. Our inability to recover a significant portion of such expenses could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition or cash flows.U.S. Government agencies also review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting and information systems. Adverse findings relating to our systems could result in the U.S. Government customer withholding a percentage of payments and also could impact our ability to win new U.S. Government contracts or exercise contract options.Responding to government audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert management attention. Also, if an audit or investigation were to uncover improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were to be made against us.Decreases in demand for military and commercial ammunition could adversely affect our financial performance.We sell military ammunition to DoD and commercial ammunition to Vista Outdoor under an ammunition supply agreement. Both the commercial and military markets for ammunition are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that can cause demand to fluctuate unpredictably. Decreases in the demand for ammunition in either market could result in excess manufacturing capacity and increased overhead as a result, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. We experienced a continuing decrease in demand for ammunition in the 2015 transition period. Further declines could materially affect our business and results of operations. In addition, manufacturing costs for ammunition could rise as a result of a number of factors, including increases in commodity prices and increases in labor costs at our LCAAP, which could also have an adverse effect on our operating results and profit margin. We manufacture and sell products that create exposure to potential product liability, warranty liability or personal injury claims and litigation.Our products may expose us to potential product liability, warranty liability or personal injury claims relating to the use of those products. The resolution of such claims is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we maintain insurance coverage to mitigate a portion of these risks, which we believe to be adequate. However, our reputation may be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, including potential negative publicity about its products.13Table of ContentsWe are exposed to risks associated with expansion into new and adjacent commercial markets.Our long-term business growth strategy includes further expansion into new and adjacent markets. Such efforts involve a number of risks, including increased capital expenditures, market uncertainties, schedule delays, performance risk, extended payment terms, diversion of management attention, additional credit risk associated with new customers, and costs incurred in competing with companies with strong brand names and market positions. An unfavorable event or trend in any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows.International sales are subject to greater risks that sometimes are associated with doing business in foreign countries.A portion of our business is derived from international markets. In the 2015 transition period, approximately 23% of our sales were to foreign customers, compared to 19% in fiscal 2015. We also procure certain key components from non-U.S. vendors. Our international business may pose greater risks than our business in the United States due to changes in economic, legal and political environments, as well as foreign government priorities and budgets. International transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising from differing legal systems and customs in other countries. In addition, some international customers require contractors to agree to offset programs that may require in-country purchases or manufacturing or financial support arrangements as a condition to awarding contracts. The contracts may include penalties in the event a company fails to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. Furthermore, international business may create difficulties and risks with respect to the maintenance of an integrated supply chain network. An unfavorable event or trend in any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. Foreign sales subject us to numerous stringent U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain other anti-corruption laws, and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in material adverse consequences to us.Our products are subject to extensive regulation.We are required to comply with extensive regulation of our products, including those rules and regulations administered by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Department of Commerce. These laws include, but are not limited to, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), and the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS). Compliance with these laws is costly and time consuming. A violation of these laws could result in significant fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability.Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our results of operations. Currency fluctuations may affect product demand and prices we pay for materials and, as a result, our operating margins may be negatively impacted. Fluctuations in exchange rates may give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of our non-U.S. businesses are translated into U.S. dollars. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and seeks to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, such activities bear a financial cost and are not always available or successful in mitigating such volatility.We have restated the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in our two most recent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, which may lead to additional risks and uncertainties.As described in greater detail in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K, we restated the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in our Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended July 5, 2015 and October 4, 2015 (the “Restated Quarters”). The determination to restate the financial statements for the Restated Quarters was made by our Audit Committee and management. Our Audit Committee concluded that our previously issued financial statements for the Restated Quarters should no longer be relied upon. This Form 10-K includes the restatement of our financial statements for the Restated Quarters (the “Restatement”). The Restatement did not result in a change to total cash flows provided by (used for) operating activities, investing activities or financing activities for the quarter ended July 5, 2015 and six months ended October 4, 2015.As a result of the Restatement, we have become subject to a number of additional costs and risks, including unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the Restatement and the remediation of our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. The Restatement and resulting material weaknesses could impair our reputation or could cause a loss of investor confidence. Each of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.14Table of ContentsFailure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively impact the market price of our common stock.We have identified several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as described in greater detail in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” in this Form 10-K. Because of these material weaknesses, management concluded that the we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2015, based on criteria in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. We are in the process of remediating these weaknesses and plan to implement additional appropriate measures as part of this effort. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully remediate our existing material weaknesses. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer from other material weaknesses in the future. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses or fail to otherwise maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results.We have a substantial amount of debt, and the cost of servicing that debt could adversely affect our business and hinder our ability to make payments on our debt.At December 31, 2015, we had total debt of $1,490 million. In addition, we had $146.5 million of outstanding but undrawn letters of credit and, taking into account these letters of credit, an additional $853.5 million of availability under our revolving credit facility. Additional information on our debt can be found under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this report.We have demands on our cash resources in addition to interest and principal payments on our debt including, among others, operating expenses. These significant demands on our cash resources could:•make it more difficult for us to satisfy obligations,•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other general corporate purposes,•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the defense and aerospace industries,•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financing flexibility,•limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants applicable to our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds,•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, and•result in a default event upon a failure to comply with financial covenants contained in our senior credit facilities which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Our ability to pay interest on and repay our long-term debt and to satisfy our other liabilities will depend upon future operating performance and our ability to refinance our debt as it becomes due. Our future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by prevailing economic conditions at that time and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.If we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund operating costs, we will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may include:•reducing or delaying expenditures for capital equipment and/or share repurchases,•seeking additional debt financing or equity capital,•foregoing attractive acquisition opportunities,•selling assets, or•restructuring or refinancing debt.There can be no assurance that any such strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all.15Table of ContentsThe level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows.Our earnings may be impacted by the amount of expense or income recorded for employee benefit plans, primarily pension plans and other postretirement plans. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") require us to calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations are based on assumptions made relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in these assumptions. The key year-end assumptions used to estimate pension and postretirement benefit expense or income for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the rate of increase in future compensation levels, mortality rates, and the health care cost trend rate. We are required to remeasure our plan assets and benefit obligations annually, which may result in a significant change to equity through other comprehensive income (loss). Our pension and other postretirement benefit income or expense can also be affected by legislation or other regulatory actions. Additional information on how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies can be found under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the section titled "Critical Accounting Policies" in Item 7 of this report.Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security and other industrial, insider and physical security threats, and other disruptions.As a U.S. defense contractor, we face cyber security threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters, or public health crises. We also face the risk of economic espionage, which involves the targeting or acquisition of sensitive financial, trade, proprietary or technological information.We routinely experience cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. We may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage.Prior cyber-attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results, and we believe that our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are generally adequate. The threats we face vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent threats from highly-organized adversaries who target us because we protect national security information. If we are unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures and, as a result, our present and future business could be negatively impacted. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.Although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may in turn affect the security of our own information and that of other parties. The entities we work with have varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards and their relationships with government contractors, such as us, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats we face.The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to customers, loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or other intellectual property, the obsolescence of our products and services, our financial results, our reputation and our stock price.Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials or components and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, as well as increases in prices of raw materials, could adversely impact us.Key raw materials used in our operations include aluminum, steel, steel alloys, copper, zinc, lead, graphite fiber, prepreg, hydroxy terminated polybutadiene, epoxy resins and adhesives, ethylene propylene diene monomer rubbers, diethylether, x-ray film, plasticizers and nitrate esters, impregnated ablative materials, various natural and synthetic rubber compounds, polybutadiene, acrylonitrile, and ammonium perchlorate. We also purchase chemicals; electronic, electro-mechanical and mechanical components; subassemblies; and subsystems that are integrated with the manufactured parts for final assembly into finished products and systems.We monitor sources of supply to attempt to assure that adequate raw materials and other supplies needed in manufacturing processes are available. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are frequently limited to procuring materials and components from sources of supply approved by the DoD. In addition, as changes occur in business conditions, the DoD budget, and Congressional allocations, suppliers of specialty chemicals and materials sometimes consider dropping low volume items from their product lines, which may require, as it has in the past, qualification of new suppliers for raw materials on key 16Table of Contentsprograms. The supply of ammonium perchlorate, a principal raw material used in our operations, is limited to a single source that supplies the entire domestic solid propellant industry. This single source, however, maintains two separate manufacturing lines a reasonable distance apart, which mitigates the likelihood of a fire, explosion, or other problem impacting all production. We may also rely on one primary supplier for other production materials. Although other suppliers of the same materials may exist, the addition of a new supplier may require us to qualify the new source for use. The qualification process may impact our profitability or ability to meet contract deliveries.We also rely on sole source suppliers for a number of key components, including the rocket motors and engines we use on our launch vehicles. If we are unable to obtain such components in the future, due to a supplier's financial difficulties or a supplier's failure to perform as expected, we could have difficulty procuring such components in a timely or cost effective manner. A disruption in the procurement of key components could result in substantial cost increases, significant delays in the execution of certain contracts or our inability to complete certain contracts, any of which could result in a materially adverse impact on our financial results.For example, as a result of the failure of Orbital's Antares launch vehicle in October 2014 and prior engine test failures, we have ceased using the AJ-26 rocket engine in our Antares product line. We are currently transitioning to a replacement engine, the RD-181, and the time, expense and effort associated with our recovery plan have resulted in additional costs and delays. Certain suppliers of materials used in the manufacturing of rocket motors have discontinued the production of some materials. These materials include certain insulation and resin materials for rocket motor cases and aerospace-grade rayon for nozzles. We have qualified new replacement materials for some programs. For other programs, the we or our customers have procured sufficient inventory to cover current program requirements and are in the process of qualifying new replacement materials to be qualified in time to meet future production needs. Our profitability may be affected if unforeseen difficulties in developing and qualifying replacement materials occur.We are also impacted by increases in the prices of raw materials used in production on commercial and fixed-price business. We have seen a significant fluctuation in the prices of commodity metals, including copper, lead, steel and zinc. The fluctuating costs of natural gas and electricity also have an impact on the cost of operating our factories.Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials or components, difficulty completing qualification of new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials, components or new sources of supply, or a continuing increase in the prices of raw materials, energy or components could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows.Failure of our subcontractors to perform their contractual obligations could materially and adversely impact our prime contract performance and ability to obtain future business.We rely on subcontracts with other companies to perform a portion of the services we provide our customers on many of our contracts. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or our hiring of personnel of a subcontractor. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer limiting payments or terminating a contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on the ability to compete for future contracts and orders.Failure to successfully negotiate or renew collective bargaining agreements, or strikes, slow-downs or other labor-related disruptions, could adversely affect our operations and could result in increased costs that impair our financial performance. A number of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, which expire on various dates. Strikes, slow-downs or other labor-related disruptions could occur if we are unable to either negotiate or renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. The terms and conditions of new or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. In certain instances, we may not be able to pass increased costs from new or renegotiated agreements on to our customers due to the fixed-price nature of many of our contracts, including our small-caliber ammunition contract with the U.S. Army that is performed at the LCAAP. Our future success and growth will depend significantly on our ability to develop new technologies and products that achieve market acceptance within acceptable margins while maintaining a qualified workforce to meet the needs of our customers.17Table of ContentsVirtually all of the products produced and sold by us are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing and system integration techniques and capabilities. Our commercial and government businesses both operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, industry standards, market trends and customer demands. The product and program needs of our government and commercial customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our future performance depends on its ability to identify emerging technological trends, develop and manufacture competitive products, enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, and bring those products to market quickly at cost-effective prices. Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. These development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we anticipate. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects.In addition, because of the highly specialized nature of our business, we must be able to hire and retain the skilled and appropriately qualified personnel necessary to perform the services required by our customers. Our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to develop new products that meet customers' changing needs or successfully attract and retain qualified personnel.There can be no assurance that our products will be successfully developed or manufactured or that they will perform as intended.Most of the products we develop and manufacture are technologically advanced and sometimes include novel systems that must function under highly demanding operating conditions. From time to time, we experience product failures, cost overruns in developing and manufacturing our products, delays in delivery and other operational problems. We have experienced product and service failures, schedule delays and other problems in connection with certain of our launch vehicles, including the Antares launch vehicle, satellites, advanced space systems and other products. We may have similar occurrences in the future. For example, we expect that our Antares launch vehicle will return to flight in 2016 with new engines for its first-stage propulsion. Another failure of this launch vehicle could result in increased costs, delays, and potential contract termination, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our satellite and launch services contracts impose monetary penalties on us for delays and for performance failures, which penalties could be significant. In addition to any costs resulting from product warranties or required remedial action, product failures or significant delays may result in increased costs or loss of revenues due to the postponement or cancellation of subsequently scheduled operations or product deliveries and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. Negative publicity from a product failure could damage our reputation and impair our ability to win new contracts.Due to the volatile and flammable nature of our products, fires or explosions may disrupt our business.Many of our products involve the manufacture and/or handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials. From time to time, these activities have resulted in incidents which have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted some manufacturing processes, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. We have safety and loss prevention programs which require detailed pre-construction reviews of process changes and new operations, along with routine safety audits of operations involving explosive materials, to mitigate such incidents, as well as a variety of insurance policies. However, we cannot ensure that we will not experience similar incidents in the future or that any similar incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows.We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that govern both past practices and current compliance which may expose us to adverse consequences.Our operations and ownership or use of real property are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, as well as applicable foreign laws and regulations, including those for discharge of hazardous materials, remediation of contaminated sites, and restoration of damage to the environment. At certain sites that we own or operate or formerly owned or operated, there is known or potential contamination that we are required to investigate, remediate, or provide resource restoration. We could incur substantial costs, including remediation costs, resource restoration costs, fines, and penalties, or third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of liabilities associated with past practices or violations of environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental permits.18Table of ContentsWe expect that a portion of our environmental compliance and remediation costs will be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts. Some of the remediation costs that are not recoverable from the U.S. Government that are associated with facilities purchased in a business acquisition may be covered by various indemnification agreements.Although we have environmental management programs in place to mitigate risks, and environmental laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows in the past, it is difficult to predict whether they will have a material impact in the future.Capital market volatility could adversely impact our earnings because of our capital structure.We are exposed to the risk of fluctuation in interest rates. If interest rates increase, we may incur increased interest expense on variable interest-rate debt or short-term borrowings, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows.We may pursue or complete acquisitions, or other strategic transactions, which represent additional risk and could impact future financial results.Our business strategy includes the potential for future acquisitions or other similar strategic transactions. Acquisitions involve a number of risks including negotiating an appropriate price, successfully integrating the acquired company with our operations, and unanticipated liabilities or contingencies related to the acquired company. We cannot ensure that the expected benefits of any future acquisitions or other transactions will be realized. Costs could be incurred on pursuits or proposed acquisitions that have not yet or may not close which could significantly impact our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. Additionally, after the acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. Furthermore, we may engage in other strategic business transactions. Such transactions could cause unanticipated costs and difficulties, may not achieve intended results, and may require significant time and attention from management which could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, or cash flows.Our profitability could be impacted by unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities.Our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose income taxes. Changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenues or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting income tax expense and profitability. In addition, audits by income tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in income tax expense.We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty.We are subject to lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some involving substantial amounts) that arise out of the conduct of our business including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability, prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, import and export matters, and environmental, health and safety matters. Resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and our business may be adversely affected by the ultimate outcome of these matters that cannot be predicted with certainty. Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy, or the impact of evidentiary issues, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Additional information can be found in Item 3 of this report.We may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the Merger.The success of the Merger depends, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies. Our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our business and operations. Even if we integrate our businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we expect from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all. We may be unable to eliminate duplicative costs, or the benefits from the Merger may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. In addition, integration expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates.19Table of ContentsIf the Distribution does not qualify as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of our stock or Vista Outdoor, then we or our stockholders immediately prior to the Distribution may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes and we may be obligated to indemnify Vista Outdoor for such taxes imposed on Vista Outdoor.The Distribution and the Merger are intended to qualify as tax-free to us, our stockholders, Vista Outdoor and Orbital for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will agree with the conclusion of the parties and their counsel regarding the tax treatment of the Distribution and Merger. If the Distribution or certain related transactions were taxable, our stockholders would recognize income on their receipt of Vista Outdoor stock in the Distribution, and we would be considered to have made a taxable sale of certain of our assets to Vista Outdoor.The Distribution will be taxable to us pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there is a 50% or more change in ownership of either us or Vista Outdoor, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution. Because our stockholders collectively owned more than 50% of our common stock following the Merger, the Merger alone will not cause the Distribution to be taxable to us under Section 355(e). However, Section 355(e) could apply if other acquisitions of our stock before or after the Merger, or of Vista Outdoor after the Merger, are considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution. If Section 355(e) were to apply, we would be considered to have made a taxable sale of certain assets to Vista Outdoor and could recognize a substantial taxable gain. Under the tax matters agreement between us and Vista Outdoor (the "Tax Matters Agreement"), in certain circumstances, and subject to certain limitations, Vista Outdoor is required to indemnify us against taxes on the Distribution that arise as a result of actions or failures to act by Vista Outdoor, or as a result of Section 355(e) applying due to acquisitions of Vista Outdoor stock after the Distribution. In other cases, however, we might recognize taxable gain on the Distribution without being entitled to an indemnification payment under the Tax Matters Agreement. If such tax is imposed on Vista Outdoor, then we generally will be required to indemnify Vista Outdoor for that tax. The possibility of recognizing and not being indemnified for this gain may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring our stock during the two years after the Merger in a transaction that our stockholders might consider favorable.We may be unable to take certain actions because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Distribution or the Merger, and such restrictions could be significant.Pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement between us and Vista Outdoor, we are prohibited from taking actions or omissions that could reasonably be expected to cause the Distribution to be taxable or to jeopardize the conclusions of the opinions of counsel received by us or Orbital in connection with the Merger.In particular, for two years after the Distribution, we may not:•enter into any agreement, understanding or arrangement or engage in any substantial negotiations with respect to any transaction involving the acquisition, issuance, repurchase or change of ownership of any of our capital stock, together with options or other rights in respect of that capital stock, subject to certain limited exceptions;•cease to be engaged in the active conduct of, or sell or transfer more than 30% of the gross assets or gross consolidated assets of, certain businesses;•redeem or otherwise repurchase our capital stock, subject to certain limited exceptions; or•liquidate, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise.We may take any of the actions described above if we obtain an opinion of counsel that is reasonably acceptable to Vista Outdoor (or an IRS private letter ruling) to the effect that the action will not affect the tax-free status of the Distribution, the Merger or certain related transactions. Such rulings or opinions may not be obtainable, however. In addition, the receipt of any such opinion or IRS ruling in respect of an action we propose to take will not relieve us of any obligation we have to indemnify Vista Outdoor if such action causes the Distribution, Merger or certain related transactions to be taxable.Because of these restrictions, for two years after the Merger, we are limited in the amount of capital stock we can issue to make acquisitions or to raise additional capital or in the amount of stock that we can repurchase from investors.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThere are no unresolved staff comments at the date of this report.