RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Generally Increasing competition in Mexico, Brazil and the other countries in which we operate could adversely affect our revenues and profitability We face significant competition in Mexico, Brazil and the other countries in which we operate, which could result in decreases in current and potential customers, revenues and profitability. Governmental authorities in many of these countries continue to grant new licenses and concessions to new market entrants, which results in increased competition in those countries. In addition, technological developments are increasing cross-competition in certain markets, such as between wireless providers and fixed-line operators. In Mexico, competition in local service, principally from wireless service providers, has been developing since 1999. In December 2005, there were approximately 47.5 million cellular lines in service, compared with approximately 19.5 million fixed lines in service (18.4 million of which are part of our network). At present, 20 fixed-line local operators have been granted licenses, primarily in Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Puebla and other large and medium-sized cities. We have also begun to face new competition in Mexico from cable television providers, who have been authorized by the Communications Ministry (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes) to provide voice-transmission services to local fixed-line telecommunications operators and data and broadband Internet services to the Mexican public. In addition, in April 2006, the Mexican Congress amended the Federal Telecommunications Law (Ley Federal de Telecomunicaciones) and the Federal Radio and Television Law (Ley Federal de Radio y Televisión) to allow radio and television broadcasting companies to apply for authorizations to provide telecommunications services. The effects of competition on our business are highly uncertain and will depend on a variety of factors, including economic conditions, regulatory developments, the behavior of our customers and competitors and the effectiveness of measures we take. Dominant carrier regulations and other regulatory developments could hurt our business by limiting our ability to pursue competitive and profitable strategies Our business is subject to extensive regulation, and it can be adversely affected by changes in law, regulation or regulatory policy. The Competition Commission (Comisión Federal de Competencia) has determined that we are a dominant provider of certain telecommunications services, and Mexican law provides for the regulatory authorities to impose additional regulations on a dominant provider. In the past several years, the Competition Commission and the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones, or Cofetel) have adopted resolutions and regulations that apply specifically to us as a dominant carrier. We have successfully challenged these resolutions and regulations in Mexican federal court. We cannot predict whether the Competition Commission or Cofetel will issue new resolutions or regulations that are substantially similar to those that were challenged successfully, and if so, whether our judicial challenges will be successful in the future. We believe that if dominant carrier regulations are eventually implemented, the new rules and the related regulatory procedures will reduce our flexibility to adopt competitive tariff policies. 5 Table of Contents World Trade Organization dispute settlement between the United States and Mexico has resulted in changes in regulation that may affect our business In August 2000, the United States initiated a World Trade Organization dispute settlement against Mexico regarding alleged illegal barriers to competition in the Mexican telecommunications market. In June 2004, the United States and Mexico reached an agreement under which Mexico has eliminated its uniform settlement rate system, its proportional return system and its requirement that the Mexican carrier with the greatest share of outgoing traffic to a particular country negotiate the settlement rate on behalf of all Mexican carriers for that country. Mexico also agreed to introduce new regulations authorizing the resale of outgoing international long distance service. In August 2005, Mexico adopted regulations authorizing resale of outgoing international long distance service and domestic long distance service. We expect that these new regulations will likely affect our business and competition in the future and will put downward pressure on the prices we charge our customers for those services. Shifting usage patterns could adversely affect our revenues Our fixed-line network services face increasing competition due to shifting usage patterns resulting from the adoption of popular new technologies, including wireless devices for voice and other communications, and the subsequent substitution of these technologies for fixed-line phones. For example, we estimate that an increasing proportion of calls that previously would have been made over our fixed-line network are now being made on wireless telephones and voice over IP services outside our network, for which we receive no revenue. There can be no assurance that this process will not adversely affect our traffic volume and our results of operations. We have invested in countries in which we have limited experience, and we may be unsuccessful in addressing the new challenges and risks they present We have invested in a growing number of telecommunications businesses outside our historical core activity of providing fixed-line telecommunications services in Mexico, and we plan to continue to do so in the rest of Latin America. These investments have been made in some countries in which we have little experience and may involve risks to which we have not previously been exposed. Some of the investments are in countries that may present different or greater risks than Mexico, such as Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Peru and Colombia. We also have agreed to make a substantial investment in Venezuela. We cannot assure you that these investments will be successful. Risks Relating to Our Controlling Shareholder and Capital Structure We are controlled by one shareholder A majority of the voting shares of our company (71.0% as of May 11, 2006) is owned by Carso Global Telecom, S.A. de C.V., or Carso Global Telecom, which is controlled by Carlos Slim Helú and members of his immediate family who, taken together, own a majority of the common stock. Carso Global Telecom has the effective power to designate a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and to determine the outcome of other actions requiring a vote of the shareholders, except in very limited cases that require a vote of the holders of L Shares. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Mexico are different from those in the United States Our bylaws provide that any controversy between us and our shareholders will be governed by Mexican law and that our shareholders will submit to the jurisdiction of Mexican courts for any proceedings in respect thereof. Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are 6 Table of Contents different from those in the United States. In particular, the case law concerning fiduciary duties of directors is not well developed, there is no procedure for class actions, there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits and there are different discovery rules. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for minority shareholders of Telmex to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. We engage in transactions with related parties that may create the potential for conflicts of interest We engage in transactions with certain subsidiaries of Grupo Carso, S.A. de C.V., or Grupo Carso, and Grupo Financiero Inbursa, S.A. de C.V., or Grupo Financiero Inbursa. Transactions with subsidiaries of Grupo Carso include the purchase of network construction services and materials, and transactions with Grupo Financiero Inbursa include banking services and insurance. We also have ongoing operational relationships with América Móvil, S.A. de C.V., or América Móvil, which is controlled by América Telecom, S.A. de C.V., or América Telecom. América Telecom, Carso Global Telecom, Grupo Carso and Grupo Financiero Inbursa are controlled by Carlos Slim Helú and members of his immediate family who, taken together, own a majority of the common stock of each company. We also make investments jointly with related parties, sell our investments to related parties and buy investments from related parties. On April 3, 2006, we announced that América Móvil and we had together entered into an agreement with Verizon Communications, Inc., or Verizon, to acquire through an equally-owned joint venture Verizon’s 28.5% equity interest in Compañía Anónima Nacional Teléfonos de Venezuela for an aggregate purchase price of U.S.$676.6 million in cash. Another recent investment transaction with a related party includes our investment in the equity securities of MCI, Inc., which we and others who may be deemed to be under common control with us sold to Verizon in May 2005. Our transactions with related parties may create the potential for conflicts of interest. Holders of L Shares and L Share ADSs have limited voting rights Our bylaws provide that holders of L Shares are not permitted to vote except on such limited matters as the transformation or merger of Telmex or the cancellation of registration of the L Shares with the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores) or any stock exchange on which they are listed. If you hold L Shares or L Share ADSs, you will not be able to vote on most matters, including the declaration of dividends, that are subject to a shareholder vote in accordance with our bylaws. Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may only vote through the depositary Under Mexican law, a shareholder is required to deposit its shares with a Mexican custodian in order to attend a shareholders’ meeting. As long as a shareholder holds shares in ADS form, the shareholder will not be able to satisfy this requirement. There can be no assurance that holders of ADSs will receive notice of shareholders’ meetings from our ADS depositary in sufficient time to enable such holders to return voting instructions to the ADS depositary in a timely manner. In the event that instructions are not received with respect to any shares underlying ADSs, the ADS depositary will, subject to certain limitations, grant a proxy to a person designated by us. In the event that this proxy is not granted, the ADS depositary will vote these shares in the same manner as the majority of the shares of each class for which voting instructions are received. 7 Table of Contents You may not be entitled to preemptive rights Under current Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we generally must grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in Telmex. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of ADSs or holders of L Shares or A Shares in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, with respect to that future issuance of shares. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC and any other factors that we consider important to determine whether we will file such a registration statement. We cannot assure you that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of ADSs or U.S. holders of L Shares or A Shares to participate in a preemptive rights offering. As a result, the equity interest of such holders in Telmex may be diluted proportionately. In addition, under current Mexican law, it is not practicable for the depositary to sell preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds from such sales to ADS holders. Under the new Mexican Securities Market Law, preemptive rights will not arise upon the sale of newly issued shares in a public offering or the resale of shares of capital stock previously repurchased by us. See Item 10. Additional Information—Bylaws and Mexican Law—Preemptive Rights. Our bylaws restrict transfers of shares in some circumstances Our bylaws provide that any acquisition or transfer of more than 10% of our capital stock by any person or group of persons acting together requires the approval of our Board of Directors. If you wish to acquire or transfer more than 10% of our capital stock, you will not be able to do so without the approval of our Board of Directors. Our bylaws restrict the ability of non-Mexican shareholders to invoke the protection of their governments with respect to their rights as shareholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican shareholders shall be considered as Mexicans in respect of their ownership interests in Telmex and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments in certain circumstances. Under this provision, a non-Mexican shareholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of his own government by asking such government to interpose a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to the shareholder’s rights as a shareholder, but is not deemed to have waived any other rights he may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to his investment in Telmex. If you invoke such governmental protection in violation of this agreement, your shares could be forfeited to the Mexican government. Our bylaws may only be enforced in Mexico Our bylaws provide that legal actions relating to the execution, interpretation or performance of the bylaws may be brought only in Mexican courts. As a result, it may be difficult for non-Mexican shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights pursuant to the bylaws. 8 Table of Contents It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons Telmex is organized under the laws of Mexico, and most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and their assets are located in Mexico. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Mexico, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. Risks Relating to Developments in Mexico, Brazil and Other Countries Economic and political developments may adversely affect our business Our business operations and assets are principally located in Mexico. As a result, our business may be significantly affected by the general condition of the Mexican economy, by devaluation of the peso, by inflation and high interest rates in Mexico and by political developments in Mexico. We also have substantial operations and assets in Brazil and our business may be affected by economic and political developments in Brazil. Mexico has experienced adverse economic conditions In the past, Mexico has experienced both prolonged periods of weak economic conditions and deterioration in economic conditions that have had a negative impact on our company. If the Mexican economy falls into a recession or if inflation and interest rates increase significantly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer material adverse consequences because, among other things, demand for telecommunications services may decrease and consumers may find it difficult to pay for the services we offer. Depreciation or fluctuation of the currencies in which we conduct operations relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. Changes in the value of the various currencies in which we conduct operations against the Mexican peso or changes in the value of the Mexican peso or the various currencies in which we conduct operations against the U.S. dollar may result in exchange losses or gains on our indebtedness and accounts payable. At December 31, 2005, our U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness amounted to P.81,978 million. In 2005, the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 4.9% and the real appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 11.8%, but our gain was more than offset by losses on hedges we had entered into to minimize our exposure to the U.S. dollar. As a result, we had a foreign exchange loss of P.3,787 million. In 2004, the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar at year-end by approximately 0.3%, but our loss in Mexico was more than offset by a gain at our non-Mexican subsidiaries, particularly Embratel Participações S.A. As a result, we had a net foreign exchange gain of P.27 million. In addition, currency fluctuations between the Mexican peso and the currencies of our non-Mexican subsidiaries affect our results as reported in Mexican pesos. Currency fluctuations may continue to affect our financial income and expense and our revenues from international settlements. Major devaluation or depreciation of any such currencies may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer or to convert such currencies into U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal 9 Table of Contents on our indebtedness. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico, the government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. The Brazilian government may impose temporary restrictions on the conversion of Brazilian reais into foreign currencies and on the remittance to foreign investors of proceeds from investments in Brazil. Brazilian law permits the government to impose these restrictions whenever there is a serious imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments or reasons to foresee a serious imbalance. High levels of inflation and high interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the Mexican National Consumer Price Index, was 3.3% for 2005. Inflation for the first quarter of 2006 was 0.87%. If Mexico experiences high levels of inflation, our profitability could be adversely affected, and more generally, high inflation might result in lower demand or lower growth in demand for telecommunications services. Brazil has also experienced high levels of inflation and high interest rates, which can adversely affect our performance. Developments in the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business Economic conditions in Mexico are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy due to various factors, including commercial trade pursuant to the North American Free Trade Agreement, U.S. investment in Mexico and emigration from Mexico to the United States. Events and conditions affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Developments in other emerging market countries may adversely affect the market price of our securities The market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In October 1997, prices of both Mexican debt securities and Mexican equity securities dropped substantially, precipitated by a sharp drop in value of Asian markets. Similarly, in the second half of 1998, prices of Mexican securities were adversely affected by the economic crises in Russia and Brazil. The market value of our securities could be adversely affected by events elsewhere, especially in emerging market countries. Political events in Mexico could adversely affect Mexican economic policy and our operations The next Mexican presidential election, which will be held in July 2006, will result in a change in administration, as presidential reelection is not permitted in Mexico. The presidential race likely will be highly contested among a number of different parties, including the Institutional Revolutionary Party, the National Action Party and the Democratic Revolution Party, each with its own political platform. As a result, we cannot predict which party will prevail in the elections or whether changes in Mexican governmental policy will result from a change in administration. Such changes may adversely affect economic conditions in Mexico or our business and therefore our results of operations and financial position. 10 Table of Contents Developments in other Latin American countries in which we operate may affect our business We have expanded our operations through our investment in telecommunications companies and our acquisition of telecommunications assets in Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Peru and Colombia. These countries expose us to different or greater country risk than Mexico. Our future results may be affected by the economic and financial condition of the countries in which we operate, the devaluation of the local currency, inflation and high interest rates, or political developments, changes in law or changes in labor conditions. Devaluation of the local currency against the U.S. dollar may increase the operating costs in that country, and a depreciation against the Mexican peso may negatively affect the results of our operations in that country. 11 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. We may from time to time make forward-looking statements in our periodic reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on Form 6-K, in our annual report to shareholders, in offering circulars and prospectuses, in press releases and other written materials and in oral statements made by our officers, directors or employees to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. Examples of such forward-looking statements include: • projections of operating revenues, net income (loss), net income (loss) per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other financial items or ratios; • statements of our acquisition or divestiture plans; • statements about the impact of our acquisition of businesses outside of Mexico; • statements of our plans, objectives or goals relating to competition, regulation and rates; • statements about the escalation of competition in the business sectors in which we operate; • statements about our future financial performance or the economic performance of Mexico, Brazil or other countries; • statements about the exchange rates between Mexican pesos and foreign currencies; • statements about the future impact of regulations; and • statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Words such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “target,” “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “forecast,” “guideline,” “should” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying them. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. We caution you that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in such forward-looking statements. These factors, some of which are discussed under —Risk Factors beginning on page 5, include economic and political conditions and government policies in Mexico or elsewhere, inflation rates, exchange rates, regulatory developments, technological improvements, customer demand and competition. We caution you that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive and that other risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update such statements in light of new information or new developments. 12 Table of Contents 