RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Generally Competition and shifting usage patterns are adversely affecting our revenues and profitability Our revenues and profitability continue to be adversely affected by changes in the market and by how customers use telecommunications services. Our fixed-line network services face increasing competition from other technologies –including wireless telephone services, wireless data services, cable television providers that offer telephone service, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service and others – and the substitution of fixed-line telephony by these technologies. This process has adversely affected our traffic volume and our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. In addition to competition from other technologies, we also have numerous competitors in local service and in long-distance services. Governmental authorities in Mexico continue to grant new licenses and concessions to new market entrants, which results in increased competition. The Mexican authorities have also adopted regulations to permit cable television operators to provide voice-transmission services to local fixed-line telecommunications operators and data and broadband Internet access services to the Mexican public. As of December 31, 2011, 33 cable television providers, through more than 360 concessions, have been authorized to provide local fixed-line voice-transmission service in various cities in Mexico. Regulations have also been adopted to allow other local telephone service providers to provide paid television and audio services, but to date we have been unable to obtain authorization to do so. The effects of competition on our business are highly uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, including economic conditions, regulatory developments, the behavior of our customers and competitors and the effectiveness of measures we take in response to competition. Our ability to compete successfully depends on customer service, marketing and our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry, including new services and technologies, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and the commercial strategies of our competitors. If we are unable to respond to competition and compensate for declining prices by adding new customers, increasing usage and offering new services, our revenues and profitability could decline. Regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to pursue competitive and profitable strategies Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, and it can be adversely affected by changes in law, regulation or regulatory policy that limit our ability to modify our business strategy. In particular, the regulatory developments described below could adversely affect the Company. • Beginning in 2007, the Competition Commission (Comisión Federal de Competencia, or “Cofeco”) began four industry-wide investigations into monopolistic practices. The investigations focused on four segments of the Mexican telecommunications industry: the domestic broadband Internet market, the market for interurban transport for switched long distance traffic, the wholesale market for dedicated leasing and the fixed network interconnection market. The two investigations of the domestic broadband Internet market and the market for interurban transport for switched long distance traffic were closed due to lack of evidence. Although evidence is still being submitted in the third investigation of the wholesale market for dedicated link leasing, Cofeco has already issued a notice of probable fault to Telmex and our subsidiary Teléfonos del Noroeste, S.A. de C.V. or “Telnor”. We will object to this notice in due course. With respect to the fourth investigation regarding the fixed network interconnection market, Cofeco determined that Telmex engaged in alleged monopolistic practices. We have filed a petition for relief (amparo) against that resolution and that petition is still pending. • Also in 2007, Cofeco initiated four examinations with respect to Telmex’s market power in the following segments: the switched call market, the transit services market, the call origination market and the 5 Table of Contents wholesale market for dedicated link leasing. Cofeco issued final resolutions that Telmex and Telnor have substantial market power in all four of the markets investigated. In response, Telmex and Telnor have filed petitions for relief in all four cases. In the two cases relating to the switched call market and the transit services market, the petitions for relief are still pending. However, the courts have rejected Telnor’s petitions in the remaining two cases surrounding the call origination market and the wholesale market for dedicated link leasing. Based on these final resolutions, the regulatory authorities could impose specific price requirements or other special regulations such as additional requirements regarding disclosure of information or quality of service on us. In addition, in October 2011 the Communications Ministry (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes, or “SCT”) and the Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones, or “Cofetel”) submitted for review before the Federal Regulatory Improvement Commission (Comisión Federal de Mejora Regulatoria, or “Cofemer”), a preliminary recommendation which suggested specific requirements regarding prices, quality of services, and information for the wholesale market for dedicated link leasing. In March 2012, Cofemer issued a final judgment that incorporated that preliminary recommendation, and in April 2012 Cofetel published Cofemer’s final judgment in the Official Gazette. We believe that if Cofemer’s final judgment is deemed to apply to Telnor, it would have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. • In February 2009, Cofetel published a Fundamental Technical Plan of Interconnection and Inter-Operability, or the “Fundamental Technical Plan,” which requires operators with the greatest number of access points, to provide other operators with access to our network on an “unbundled” basis that disaggregates the prices for different service elements. We believe this may result in pricing network access at prices below the recovery cost for our infrastructure investments and may have a negative impact on us and the Mexican telecommunications sector in general. In October 2009, Cofetel issued two resolutions determining that we and Telnor are operators with the largest number of access points in our respective concession coverage areas. We have filed petitions for constitutional protection against the Fundamental Technical Plan and these resolutions, which are pending. In July 2011, Telnor obtained a favorable resolution against the Fundamental Technical Plan. • In November 2005, Cofetel issued guidelines for making changes to local service areas, including the consolidation of such local service areas. We are challenging the legality of the underlying guidelines in the Mexican courts. If the guidelines are upheld and new resolutions to consolidate our local service areas are implemented, we believe this consolidation would have an adverse impact on our revenues from long-distance service. • In June 2011, Cofetel notified Telmex and Telnor of some resolutions mandating reductions to the interconnection prices that Telmex and Telnor charge other telecommunications providers. Specifically, Cofetel’s resolutions reduced interconnection fees by 65% and redefined the legal nature of transport of long distance service (resale) that the Company provides other competitors establishing a fee of P.4.53 cents per minute, a reduction of 94% from the previous price of P.75 cents per minute. Telmex and Telnor have filed petitions to challenge these resolutions. The outcome of these appeals is still pending. Adverse global economic conditions and, in particular, the conditions of the U.S. and Mexican economies, could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition Our business is influenced by general economic conditions worldwide and in Mexico. Deterioration in the economic environment could have an adverse effect on demand for some of our products and services. The Mexican economy is influenced by the U.S. economy, so a deterioration in economic conditions or a slowdown in the recovery of the U.S. economy may hinder a recovery in Mexico. In difficult economic conditions our customers may seek to reduce discretionary spending. Under these conditions our business customers may delay purchasing decisions, delay full implementation of service offerings or reduce their use of services. Adverse economic conditions may also lead to an increase in the number of our residential and business customers that are unable to pay for services. If these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Our industry is subject to rapid technological changes, which could adversely affect our ability to compete The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid technological change. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. We expect that new products and technologies will emerge and that existing products and technologies will further develop. These new products and technologies may reduce the prices we can charge for our services or they may be superior to, and render obsolete, the products and services we offer and the technologies we use. Technological changes may consequently reduce the revenues generated by our products and services or require investment in new technology. As a result, our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to our markets that would not be burdened by an existing base of older equipment. Developments in the telecommunications sector may result in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of certain of our assets We review the value of our long-lived assets, where the circumstances require, to assess whether those carrying values can be supported by the future cash flows expected to be derived from those assets. In addition, whenever we consider that our fixed assets, intangible assets or goodwill may be impaired due to changes in the economic, regulatory or business environment, we consider the necessity of performing certain valuation tests, which may result in impairment charges. The recognition of impairments of long-lived tangible and intangible assets could result in a non-cash charge on our income statement, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience system failures as a result of natural or man-made disruptions and loss of data, which may result in reduced user traffic, decreased revenues and reputational harm We need to continue to provide our customers with reliable service over our network. The risks to our network and infrastructure include physical damage as a result of natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and storms, technology failures, human error, terrorist attacks, hacker attacks and malicious actions (e.g., theft or misuse of customer data), and other disruptions. We have instituted many measures to reduce such risks, including thorough monitoring of our telecommunications infrastructure, implementing redundancy in our network and installing backup technologies such as firewalls and virus scanners. Additionally, we carry casualty insurance against such risks. However, there is no assurance that these measures will be effective against system failures under all circumstances. A system failure that impairs our ability to operate our wireline network, even for a brief period of time, may result in increased expenses, potential legal liability, loss of existing and potential customers, reduced user traffic, decreased revenues and reputational harm which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are exposed to currency and interest rate risks on our debt and we have entered into derivatives contracts to limit these risks A substantial part of our indebtedness is denominated in U.S. dollars, and we have relatively limited assets and revenues denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2011, our U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness amounted to P.32,187 million. In addition, a substantial part of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. As a result, we are exposed to risks from changing currency exchange rates and interest rates. To offset these risks, we entered into derivative financial instruments with large financial institutions to minimize the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates and variable interest rates on our indebtedness. We have not entered into derivative financial instruments for any other purposes, although we may do so in the future. The types of derivative financial instruments we have typically entered into in recent periods include cross-currency swaps (in which we generally pay peso amounts based on peso interest rates and receive U.S. dollar amounts based on dollar interest rates), interest-rate swaps (in which we generally pay amounts based on fixed interest rates and receive amounts based on variable interest rates) and forward exchange contracts (in which we generally agree to use pesos to purchase U.S. dollars at a future date). Our derivative financial instruments do not provide complete protection against the exchange rate or interest rate risk of our indebtedness. We may determine that the risks are acceptable or that the protection available through derivative financial instruments in the market is insufficient or too costly. These determinations depend on many 7 Table of Contents factors, including market conditions, the specific risks in question, and our expectations concerning future market developments. We review and change our derivatives positions regularly, and our hedging policies change from time to time. When the financial markets are volatile, as they have been in recent periods, our results of operations may be substantially affected by variations in exchange rates and, to a lesser degree, interest rates. These effects include foreign exchange gain and loss on assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars, fair value gain and loss on derivative financial instruments, and changes in interest income and interest expense. These effects can be much more volatile than our operating performance or our operating cash flows. We attempt to match the cash flows on our derivative financial instruments with the cash flows on our indebtedness. The net effects on our reported results in any period are difficult to predict and depend on market conditions and on the specifics of our derivatives positions. For example, in 2011 the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 13.1%. As a result, in 2011, we recognized a net exchange loss on our U.S. dollar denominated debt and a net fair value gain on currency derivatives. In 2011, we also recognized lower interest expense due to a lower average level of debt. Our derivative financial instruments are also subject to the risk that counterparties may default or seek bankruptcy protection. The instability and uncertainty in the financial markets has made it more difficult to assess the risk of counterparties to derivatives contracts. Moreover, in light of the greater volatility in the global securities and exchange markets, there may be fewer financial entities available with which we could continue entering into derivative financial instruments to protect against currency and interest rate risks. Because substantially all our business is in Mexico, we are affected by adverse economic or political conditions in Mexico Substantially all of our business operations and assets are located in Mexico. Our financial performance may be affected by general economic, political and social conditions in Mexico. In the past, Mexico has experienced both prolonged periods of weak economic conditions and deterioration in economic conditions that have had a negative impact on the Company. Mexico has also experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates in the past, which affected the purchasing power of consumers and businesses. Mexico started sliding into a recession in the fourth quarter of 2008, and in 2009 GDP fell by 6.5%. In 2010, GDP rose by 5.5%, and in 2011 it rose by 3.9%. If the Mexican economy experiences a downturn or if inflation and interest rates increase significantly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer material adverse consequences because, among other things, demand for telecommunications services may decrease and consumers may find it difficult to pay for the services we offer. Political events in Mexico could adversely affect Mexican economic policy and our operations The next Mexican presidential and legislative elections, which will be held in July 2012, will result in a change of administration, as reelection is not permitted in Mexico. The presidential race will likely be highly contested among a number of different parties, including the Institutional Revolutionary Party, the National Action Party and the Democratic Revolution Party, each with its own political platform. We cannot predict which party will prevail in the elections or what changes in government policies will result from a change of administration. Such changes may adversely affect economic conditions in Mexico and our business and therefore our results of operations and financial position. Risks Relating to Our Controlling Shareholder and Capital Structure The decreased liquidity of the Company’s common stock could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock Since the completion of the tender offer launched by América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (“América Móvil”) in the fourth quarter of 2011, the liquidity of the Company’s common stock in the U.S. and Mexican markets has markedly decreased. The low liquidity of the Company’s common stock may impair the ability of the shareholders, including 8 Table of Contents the former holders of ADSs who surrendered their ADSs in exchange for the underlying shares, to sell their shares in the quantity and at the price that they wish. The delisting and deregistration of Telmex shares in the United States and Mexico could result in a lack of public information regarding Telmex Effective January 30, 2012, the Company’s ADSs ceased trading on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and the NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”), and the deposit agreements governing the ADSs were terminated. Following the delisting and the termination of the deposit agreements, the Company expects to deregister with the SEC in the course of the second quarter of 2012. As a result of the deregistration, the Company will no longer be legally required to file annual or periodic reports with the SEC. Additionally, the Company plans both to delist its shares from the Mexican Stock Exchange and to deregister them from the National Securities Registry (Registro Nacional de Valores) during the second half of 2012. These delisting and deregistration processes in the U.S. and Mexico could result in a lack of public information regarding Telmex, and trading in Telmex’s securities might be adversely affected. We are controlled by one shareholder A majority of the voting shares of the Company (97.8% as of March 29, 2012) is owned by América Móvil, directly and indirectly through Carso Global Telecom, S.A. de C.V., or Carso Global Telecom. América Móvil has the effective power to designate a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and to determine the outcome of other actions requiring a vote of the shareholders of the Company. América Móvil may be deemed to be controlled by Carlos Slim Helú and members of his immediate family, who, taken together, own a majority of the common stock of América Móvil. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Mexico are different from those in the United States Our bylaws provide that any dispute between us and our shareholders will be governed by Mexican law and that legal actions relating to the execution, interpretation or performance of the bylaws may be brought only before Mexican courts. Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the case law concerning fiduciary duties of directors is not well developed, there is no procedure for class actions, there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits and there are different discovery rules. As a result, it may be more difficult in practice for minority shareholders of Telmex to enforce their rights against us, our directors or our controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. We engage in transactions with related parties that may create the potential for conflicts of interest We engage in transactions with entities that, like us, are controlled, directly or indirectly, by Carlos Slim Helú and members of his immediate family. These entities include (a) América Móvil and its subsidiaries, (b) Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V., or Grupo Carso, and its subsidiaries and (c) Grupo Financiero Inbursa, S.A.B. de C.V., or Grupo Financiero Inbursa, and its subsidiaries. Our transactions with América Móvil include interconnection between our respective networks and the completion of international traffic in each other’s countries of operation, América Móvil’s printing and distribution of our directories and América Móvil’s access to our customer database and our billing and collection system in connection with its directories business, among others. See Notes 12 and 15 to our audited consolidated financial statements. In addition, we entered into loan agreements with América Móvil. Transactions with Grupo Carso include the purchase of network construction services and materials, and transactions with Grupo Financiero Inbursa include financial services and insurance. We also have agreements with AT&T International, Inc., or AT&T International, a shareholder of América Móvil, that provide for the completion of calls in our respective countries of operation. Our transactions with related parties may create the potential for conflicts of interest. 9 Table of Contents Holders of L Shares have limited voting rights Our bylaws provide that holders of L Shares are not permitted to vote except on such limited matters as the transformation or merger of Telmex or the cancellation of registration of the L Shares with the National Securities Registry, managed by the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, or “CNBV”), or any stock exchange on which they are listed. If you hold L Shares, you will not be able to vote on most matters, including the declaration of dividends that are subject to a shareholder vote in accordance with our bylaws. You may not be entitled to preemptive rights Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we generally must grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in Telmex. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. Preemptive rights do not arise upon the sale of newly issued shares in a public offering or the resale of shares of capital stock previously repurchased by us. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of L Shares or A Shares in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless we file a registration statement with the SEC, with respect to that future issuance of shares. It is unlikely that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow U.S. holders of L Shares or A Shares to participate in a preemptive rights offering. As a result, the equity interest of such holders in Telmex may be diluted proportionately. Our bylaws restrict the ability of non-Mexican shareholders to invoke the protection of their governments with respect to their rights as shareholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican shareholders shall be considered as Mexicans in respect of their ownership interests in Telmex and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments in certain circumstances. Under this provision, a non-Mexican shareholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of his own government by asking such government to interpose a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to the shareholder’s rights as a shareholder, but is not deemed to have waived any other rights he may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to his investment in Telmex. If you invoke such governmental protection in violation of this agreement, your shares could be forfeited to the Mexican government. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons Telmex is organized under the laws of Mexico, and most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our directors, officers and controlling persons are located in Mexico. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Mexico, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. 10 Table of Contents 