RISK FACTORS The nature of our business activities and operations subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties. If any of the events described below were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Adverse events have negatively affected our liquidity position. Our liquidity consists primarily of cash from operations and advances under our revolving credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash from operations or the credit capacity to meet all of our cash needs if we continue to encounter significant working capital requirements, including the requirement to carry our costs included in uncollected accounts receivable, contract dispute receivables, claims for increased costs caused by others, unapproved change orders and costs incurred in excess of contract billings. Insufficient cash from operations and insufficient earnings from operations have in the past and could in the future result in our failure to comply with the terms of our credit agreement. Primarily as a result of cost overruns on certain projects, lower than expected revenues in our Construction Services segment and lower cash from operations resulting from non-payment of contract dispute receivables, and claims against customers, we have failed to comply with certain of the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement. We obtained, at substantial cost, waivers from our lenders with respect to our non-compliance with specified covenants. On April 22, 2005, we completed a private placement of $30.0 million of 7.0% convertible notes due 2010. The proceeds to us, which were net of fees and prepaid interest for two years, were approximately $24.6 million. We used $20.0 million of the net proceeds to repay Term Note B under our credit facility, which included an escalating interest rate and was bearing interest of 18% at the time of its repayment on April 25, 2005. The remaining net proceeds were used to provide additional liquidity for working capital needs. As of May 31, 2005, our credit facility consists of a $35 million revolver, a $22.4 million term loan and a $10 million revolving loan B. Availability under the revolver is limited to the lesser of $35 million or 80% of the borrowing base, which is based on eligible accounts receivable. At May 31, 2005, $20.3 million was outstanding under the revolver and $10.0 million of the revolver was utilized by outstanding letters of credit, which automatically renew annually. At that date, remaining availability under the revolver was $4.7 million and we were paying a weighted average interest rate of 8.5% on the revolver. Availability under the revolver was $10.6 million as of August 12, 2005. Under our term loan, principal payments of $1.2 million are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter, with the remaining principal due on March 31, 2008, the date on which the term loan matures. At May 31, 2005, we were paying a weighted average interest rate of 8.5% on our $22.4 million term loan. As of August 12, 2005, we were paying a weighted average interest rate of 10.5% on the term loan, which had an outstanding principal balance of $20.3 million. The $10 million revolving loan B commitment was established in amendment nine and extended in amendment ten to our credit agreement on April 22, 2005 and August 10, 2005, respectively. The revolving loan B commitment bears cash interest at prime, expires on June 30, 2006 and is secured by various contract dispute receivables. Availability under the commitment is limited to $10 million less an amount equal to the value of all of our outstanding checks. The revolving loan B commitment will be further reduced by an amount equal to any funds collected with respect to “large disputed accounts,” and the net proceeds from the sale of any of our equity securities or certain assets. The revolving loan B commitment may also be reduced at the sole discretion of the lenders. Availability under our revolver Loan B was $7.7 million at both May 31, 2005 and August 12, 2005. Our credit agreement requires us to make mandatory prepayments in certain circumstances including upon the sale of certain assets in excess of $250,000, the sale of stock or the issuance of subordinated indebtedness, or in the event that we generate “excess cash”, incur a borrowing base deficiency or collect contract dispute receivables. - 12 - Table of Contents Amendment Ten to our credit agreement modified the required financial covenants. Under Amendment Ten, we are required to maintain minimum levels of “augmented consolidated EBITDA” for various quarterly test periods through May 31, 2006 as of designated quarterly test dates. The starting point for the augmented consolidated EBITDA is “consolidated EBITDA”, which is defined to include “consolidated net income,” plus, to the extent deducted in determining consolidated net income, (i) consolidated interest expense (ii) expense for taxes paid or accrued, (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) up to $3,000,000 in the aggregate of the following: (A) (1) specifically defined professional and consulting fees (2) other expenses related to the reorganization of Borrower’s fabrication operation, (3) lease termination cost arising from the termination of leases occurring as a part of and during the restructure, and (4) costs and expenses related to the search for a replacement Chief Executive Officer but only to the extent paid or incurred on or before November 30, 2005; (B) severance payments and retention bonuses associated with restructuring; (C) legal fees and legal expenses incurred with regard to the enforcement and collection of the large disputed accounts; (D) losses on sales of fixed assets approved by the lenders and incurred prior to November 30, 2005; and (E) losses arising from the settlement of large disputed accounts minus, to the extent included in consolidated net income, (i) gains on sales of fixed assets, (ii) extraordinary gains realized other than in the ordinary course of business, and (iii) income tax benefits. The minimum level of augmented consolidated EBITDA for each quarterly test period is as follows: Test Periods Minimum AugmentedConsolidated EBITDA Test Date June 1, 2005 through August 31, 2005 $ 4,135,000 September 30, 2005 June 1, 2005 through November 30, 2005 $ 7,493,000 December 31, 2005 June 1, 2005 through February 28, 2006 $ 10,651,000 March 31, 2006 June 1, 2005 through May 31, 2006 $ 15,302,000 June 30, 2006 For purposes of determining compliance with this covenant, “consolidated EBITDA” is increased by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) $3,000,000 or (ii) the sum of the following: (A) if one or more sales of assets approved by the lenders has occurred, then the aggregate for all such sales of the following: the amount, if any, by which (1) an amount equal to the Borrowing Base immediately after the closing of such sale minus the aggregate principal balance of the Revolving Loans measured immediately after the application of such proceeds exceeds; (2) an amount equal to the Borrowing Base immediately prior to the closing of such sales minus the aggregate principal balance of the Revolving Loans measured immediately prior to the application of such proceeds; (B) federal and state tax refunds received during such period less the amount of any taxes paid; (C) reimbursements received during such period from customers for capital expenditures associated with the LNG project to the extent that, during the same period, such capital expenditures actually occurred; and (D) cash proceeds received during such period from the sale of any common stock, preferred stock, warrant or other equity (other than the exercise of stock options by employees, officers and directors) approved by the lenders and from the issuance of any subordinated indebtedness approved by the lenders. Amendment Ten also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of augmented consolidated EBITDA for the fiscal year to date minus cash dividends and distributions made or paid during the period to scheduled current maturities of the term loan for the fiscal year to date, plus scheduled current maturities of the Hake Group acquisition payable for the fiscal year to date, plus consolidated interest expense for the year to date (excluding amounts included in consolidated interest expense for (1) amortization of deferred financing fees (2) amortization of prepaid interest related to the subordinated debt, (3) accretion related to The Hake Group acquisition payable, and (4) interest attributable to the additional accrued margin that is neither paid for nor due and payable during the fiscal year to date, plus current maturities on capitalized leases for the fiscal year to date and capital expenditures paid during such fiscal year to such date. The ratio at each quarterly measurement date shall be less than 1.00. Amendment Ten also requires us to maintain a minimum debt service coverage ratio of consolidated EBITDA for the fiscal year to date minus cash dividends and distributions during the period to scheduled current maturities of the term loan for the fiscal year to date, plus scheduled current maturities of the Hake Group acquisition payable for the fiscal year to date, plus consolidated interest expense for the year to date (excluding amounts described above), plus current maturities on capitalized leases for the fiscal year to date. The required debt service coverage ratio is 1.43 for the period ended August 31, 2005, 1.65 for the period ending November 30, 2005, 1.65 for the period ending February 28, 2006 and 1.38 for the period ending May 31, 2006. Amendment Ten provides that borrowings under the revolver and the term loan shall bear prime-based interest plus a margin. The agreement further provides for an additional accrued margin that is paid upon termination of the facility. The amendment provides for cash pay interest at a rate of prime plus 1.0% and accrued interest at at 1.0% beginning April 2005 and escalating fifty basis points monthly until December 31, 2005 at which time the accrued margin is 5.0%. Beginning January 1, 2006 to January 31, 2006, cash pay interest converts to prime plus 3.5% with accrued interest at 3.5% on both revolvers and the term loan. Beginning February 1, 2006 to February 28, 2006, cash pay interest converts to prime plus 4.75% with accrued interest at 2.5% on both revolvers. Beginning March 1, 2006 to March 31. 2006, cash pay interest converts to prime plus 6.0% with accrued interest at 1.5% on both revolvers. After April 1, 2006, cash pay interest converts to prime plus 8.25% on both revolvers. We were paying a weighted average interest rate of 8.50% on the term loan and the revolver at May 31, 2005. On August 10, 2005, the lenders executed a waiver which modified the required covenants at May 31, 2005 to require (i) Consolidated EBITDA (as defined) to be greater than or equal to $2,596,000 and (ii) a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (as defined) to be greater than or equal to 0.925. The following table presents the required and actual financial covenant measures in effect as of May 31, 2005: Fixed Charge Ratio Minimum Ratio Required 0.925 Actual Ratio 0.966 Excess / (Shortfall) 0.041 EBITDA (in thousands) Minimum EBITDA Required $ 2,596 Actual EBITDA 2,903 Excess / (Shortfall) $ 307 - 13 - Table of Contents The credit agreement also limits our capital expenditures to $9 million annually, limits unsecured indebtedness we may borrow for general operating purposes to $1 million, limits capital lease obligations to $15 million and limits the amount of letters of credit we may have outstanding to $15 million. In March 2005, the Company initiated a restructuring program to reduce its cost structure and improve its operating results. The Company focused on its core strengths and identified those areas with the objective of eliminating unprofitable and marginal work. As a result of this effort, Matrix sold the transportation and rigging assets and has executed a letter of intent to sell the aluminum floating roof business. Matrix is also in the process of selling excess facilities or land in Tulsa, Oklahoma; Orange, California; and Holmes, Pennsylvania. These liquidity events, coupled with various tax refunds is expected to yield approximately $12.0 million in cash, which will be used to improve liquidity. Matrix also ceased to work on a number of large routine maintenance contracts that were utilizing valuable resources while providing minimal returns. As these maintenance contracts were reduced, there was a significant reduction of overhead and administration costs. As a result of these efforts and other efforts to reduce costs, Matrix was able to reduce its annual administrative payroll and benefit costs by more than $5.0 million. Although our credit agreement provides us with sufficient liquidity for the upcoming fiscal year, the revolving loan B and the $35 million revolver expire on June 30, 2006. While we are currently working to obtain a new credit facility, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. In addition, the failure to comply with the terms of our credit agreement has required us to incur significant fees to our lenders to obtain waivers and amendments and caused us to seek alternative financing. Without acceptable waiver or amendments from our lenders with respect to any future covenant violations or alternative financing on terms acceptable to us, our lenders would have the right, among others, to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement to be immediately due and payable and foreclose upon and sell substantially all of our assets to repay such amounts. Insufficient liquidity could have other important consequences to us. For example, we could: • have reduced operating flexibility, such as in the levels of workforce we can maintain or by being required to use subcontractors to perform work that could otherwise be performed by us; 14 Table of Contents • be required to divert a substantial portion of our cash flow away from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest associated with that debt, particularly in the event of significant increases in interest rates as a substantial amount of our debt is at floating rates; • be required to delay bidding for or accepting new projects; • lose the services of skilled craftsmen and other experienced professionals if we are unable to retain them on our payroll during periods of idle time; • be restricted in our ability to bid for new work that would require significant up-front expenditures for mobilization, equipment and raw materials; and • experience difficulty in financing future acquisitions and/or continuing operations. In addition, insufficient liquidity has recently and could in the future require us to negotiate extended payment terms with our vendors. To date, this has not materially affected our relationships with key vendors. However, if we are required to negotiate extended payment terms, we cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulty in ordering and obtaining equipment and raw materials from our vendors. All or any of these consequences could place us at a disadvantage as compared with competitors with greater liquidity. This could have a negative impact upon our financial condition and results of operations. The interest rate on our existing indebtedness will increase if we are unable to refinance our revolving credit facility. We may be unable to refinance or repay our credit facility prior to or upon its maturity. Pursuant to amendment ten to our credit agreement, all borrowings under our credit facility, other than revolving loan B, currently accrue interest at a base rate plus an “applicable margin” and an “additional accrued margin.” The additional accrued margin was 1.00% for the period April 22, 2005 through April 30, 2005, increased to 1.50% for the period May 1, 2005 through May 31, 2005, and will increase 0.50% on the first day of each month until December 31, 2005. Beginning January 1, 2006 to January 31, 2006, cash pay interest converts to prime plus 3.5% with accrued interest at 3.5% on both revolvers. Beginning February 1, 2006 to February 28, 2006, cash pay interest converts to prime plus 4.75% with accrued interest at 2.5% on both revolvers. Beginning March 1, 2006 to March 31. 2006, cash pay interest converts to prime plus 6.0% with accrued interest at 1.5% on both revolvers. After April 1, 2006, cash pay interest converts to prime plus 8.25% on both revolvers. The term loan bears cash pay and accrued interest at the same rates. We were paying a weighted average interest rate of 8.50% on the term loan and the revolver at May 31, 2005. Interest at the prime rate and the applicable margin is payable monthly in cash and interest at the additional accrued margin is accrued monthly and is payable in cash at the time of payment of the principal amount of the applicable loan. In addition, if we fail to refinance our credit facility prior to September 30, 2005, additional interest of 5.00% per annum will accrue and be added to the principal balance of our convertible notes beginning October 1, 2005 and until our credit facility is refinanced. We may be unable to refinance our credit facility in the next fiscal year or at all. If we are unable to refinance our credit facility in the next few months, we may find it increasingly difficult or impossible to refinance our increasing debt burden. Moreover, the failure to refinance our credit facility on or before June 30, 2006 would constitute an event of default under the convertibles notes, which would allow the convertible note investors to require us to redeem the convertible notes for an amount which may exceed the outstanding principal amount plus all accrued and unpaid interest thereon. If we are not able to refinance our credit facility on or before its expiration, we could become subject to bankruptcy proceedings, and holders of our common stock may lose all of their investment because the claims of our secured creditors on our assets would be senior to the claims of the purchasers of our common stock. Moreover, even if we are successful in refinancing our credit facility, any future senior indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. - 15 - Table of Contents If we fail to comply with our obligations under a registration rights agreement among us and the holders of our convertible notes, we may be required to pay additional interest on the convertible notes. Our failure to comply with our obligations under the registration rights agreement may also constitute an event of default under the convertible notes. In connection with the private placement of the convertible notes, on April 22, 2005, we entered into a registration rights agreement with the investors in the convertible notes. The registration rights agreement requires us to use our best efforts to keep our registration statement, covering the resale of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, continuously effective until the earlier of (a) the date on which all of our common stock covered by such registration statement has been sold or may be sold without volume restrictions pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or “Securities Act,” or (b) the fifth anniversary of the closing date. Although the Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on June 17, 2005, if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the registration rights agreement, we will owe the holders of the convertible notes as partial liquidated damages an amount in cash equal to 1% of the aggregate amount paid for the convertible notes for each such event, and thereafter on each monthly anniversary of each such event (if the applicable failure shall not have been cured by such date) until the applicable failure is cured, we will owe the note holders an amount in cash equal to an additional 1% of the aggregate amount paid for the convertible notes. Moreover, the convertible notes provide that an event of default will occur if the registration statement does not remain available for use by the holders of convertible notes for in excess of an aggregate of 20 “trading days” (which need not be consecutive) in any 18-month period during the “effectiveness period.” The occurrence of an event of default would entitle the holders of the convertible notes to require us to redeem the convertible notes for an amount which may exceed the outstanding principal amount plus all accrued and unpaid interest thereon and would also constitute an event of default under the cross default provisions of our credit agreement. Our earnings for fiscal year 2005 were negatively impacted by impairment charges. Earnings for the future periods may be further affected by additional impairment charges. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. We perform an annual goodwill impairment review in the fourth quarter of every fiscal year. In addition, we perform a goodwill impairment review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, such as the liquidity issues and operating results we are currently experiencing. As a result, we performed a goodwill impairment test as of February 28, 2005. The process of evaluating the impairment of goodwill is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. Fair value of the reporting units was determined based on the probability-adjusted present value of future cash flows. A preliminary impairment charge of $25.0 million was recorded for our Construction Services segment in the quarter ended February 28, 2005. The cash flow assumptions were based on the best available information, but this information was considered preliminary due to our current liquidity situation and restructuring efforts. The impairment evaluation was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, resulting in no additional impairment charge. However at some future date, we may determine that an additional significant impairment has occurred in the value of our unamortized intangible assets or fixed assets, which could require us to write off an additional portion of our assets and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are involved and are likely to continue to be involved in legal proceedings, which will increase our costs and, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are and will likely continue to be named as a defendant in legal proceedings claiming damages from us in connection with the operation of our business. Most of the actions against us arise out of the normal course of our performing services on project sites, and include claims for workers’ compensation, personal injury and property damage. From time to time we are also named as a defendant in contract disputes with customers relating to the timeliness and quality of the performance of our services and of equipment, materials, design or other services provided by our subcontractors and third-party suppliers. We also are and are likely to continue to be a plaintiff in legal proceedings against customers seeking to recover payment of contractual amounts due to us as well as claims for increased costs incurred by us resulting from, among other things, services performed by us at the request of a customer that are in excess of original project scope that are later disputed by the customer and customer caused delays in our contract performance. - 16 - Table of Contents We maintain insurance against operating hazards in amounts that we believe are customary in our industry. However, our insurance has deductibles and exclusions of coverage so we cannot provide assurance that we are adequately insured against all the types of risks that are associated with the conduct of our business. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, is expensive, typically diverts the efforts of our management away from operations for varying periods of time, and can disrupt or otherwise adversely impact our relationships with current or potential customers and suppliers. Payment and claim disputes with customers also cause us to incur increased interest costs resulting from drawing higher levels of debt under our revolving line of credit due to the failure to receive payment for disputed claims and accounts. For the year ended May 31, 2005, legal expenses and interest costs related to litigation with customers for payment of disputed claims and uncollected accounts totaled approximately $5.4 million. We expect to continue to incur legal costs and interest expense until the matters are resolved. Demand for our products and services is cyclical and is vulnerable to downturns in the industries and markets which we serve as well as conditions in the general economy. The demand for our products and services depends significantly upon the existence of construction and repair and maintenance projects in the power and downstream petroleum industries in the United States and Canada. These projects may relate to power generation and transmission facilities, petroleum refineries and petroleum and natural gas products storage facilities, terminals and pipelines. Together, these industries accounted for approximately 98%, 97% and 92% of our total revenues for fiscal years ended May 31, 2003, May 31, 2004 and May 31, 2005, respectively. Power industry related revenues accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2005, 52% in fiscal year 2004, and 23% in fiscal year 2003. The significant decrease in power industry revenues is a result of the completion of two large power projects performed during fiscal 2004 that were assumed in connection with our acquisition of the Hake Group, Inc. in March 2003. These projects were not replaced by similar type projects in fiscal 2005. These markets historically have been, and likely will continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the United States and Canadian economies, which could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. Occasionally, the timing of the demand for our products and services in certain of these markets, such as power generation facilities and petroleum refineries, can also be adversely affected during periods of strong economic growth as customers may postpone closing their facilities for maintenance, repair, turnaround or expansion projects while demand for their products remains high. As a consequence of these and other factors, our results of operations have varied and are likely to continue to vary significantly depending on the demand for future projects from these industries. Our results of operations depend upon the award of new contracts and the timing of those awards. Our revenues are derived primarily from contracts awarded to us on a project-by-project basis. Generally, it is very difficult to predict whether and when we will be awarded a new contract since each potential contract typically involves a lengthy and complex bidding and selection process that may be affected by a number of factors, including changes in existing or assumed market conditions, financing arrangements, governmental approvals and environmental matters. Because our revenues are derived primarily from these contracts, our results of operations and cash flows can fluctuate materially from period to period depending on the timing of contract awards. The uncertainty associated with the timing of contract awards also increases our cost of doing business, either over a short period or a comparatively longer term. For example, we may decide to maintain and bear the cost of a workforce in excess of our current contract needs in anticipation of future contract awards. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur costs in maintaining an idle workforce that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Or, we may decide that our long term interests are best served by reducing our workforce and incurring increased costs associated with severance and termination benefits which also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period when incurred. - 17 - Table of Contents The terms of our contracts could expose us to absorbing unforeseen costs and costs not within our control, which may not be recoverable and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While the percentages may vary from period to period, over the long term, approximately 50% of our revenues have been derived from fixed-price contracts and 50% from cost-plus contracts. We expect this ratio to continue to be maintained at these levels. Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the contract for a fixed-price and, as a result, can realize our expected profit or improve our expected profit by superior contract performance, productivity, worker safety and other factors resulting in costs savings. However, we could incur cost overruns above the approved contract price, which may not be recoverable. Under certain incentive fixed-price contracts, we may agree to share with a customer a portion of any savings we are able to generate while the customer agrees to bear a portion of any increased costs we may incur up to a negotiated ceiling. To the extent costs exceed the negotiated ceiling price, we may be required to absorb some or all of the cost overruns. Fixed-price contract prices are established based largely upon estimates and assumptions relating to project scope and specifications and personnel and material needs. These estimates and assumptions may prove inaccurate or conditions may change, sometimes due to factors not within our control, resulting in cost overruns we are required to absorb that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations. In addition, our profits from these contracts could decrease and we could experience losses if we incur difficulties in performing the contracts or are unable to secure fixed-pricing commitments from our manufacturers, suppliers and subcontractors at the time we enter into fixed-price contracts with our customers. Under cost-plus contracts, we perform our services in return for payment of our agreed upon reimbursable costs plus a profit. The profit component is typically expressed in the contract either as a percentage of the reimbursable costs we actually incur or is factored into the rates we charge for labor or for the cost of equipment and materials, if any, we are required to provide. Some cost-plus contracts provide for the customer’s review of the accounting and cost control systems used by us to calculate these labor rates and to verify the accuracy of the reimbursable costs invoiced. These reviews could result in reductions in amounts previously billed to the customer and in an adjustment to amounts previously reported by us as our profit on the contract. Many of our fixed-price or cost-plus contracts require us to satisfy specified progress milestones or performance standards in order to receive a payment. Under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs for labor, equipment and supplies prior to receipt of payment. If the customer fails or refuses to pay us for any reason, there is no assurance we will be able to collect amounts due to us for costs previously incurred. In some cases, we may find it necessary to terminate subcontracts with suppliers engaged by us to assist in performing a contract and we may incur costs or penalties for canceling our commitments to them. Many of our customers for power generation projects are project-specific entities that do not have significant assets other than their interest in the project. In these cases, we typically obtain a guaranty of the obligations of the project-specific entity from its more creditworthy parent entity. It may be difficult for us to collect amounts owed to us by these customers and their more creditworthy parent entity. If we are unable to collect amounts owed to us under our contracts, we may be required to record a charge against previously recognized earnings related to the project, and our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may encounter difficulties during the course of performing our contracts that may result in additional costs to us and in a reduction in our revenues and earnings that could have an adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our construction and repair and maintenance projects are performed over extended periods of time and involve complex design and engineering specifications. In these cases, it is common for us to perform work from time-to-time over the life of the project that is outside the scope of the original contract with the expectation of receiving a signed change order from the customer. Our contracts for these projects also often require us to provide extensive project management and to obtain machinery, equipment, materials and services from third - 18 - Table of Contents parties or the customer. We may encounter difficulties in obtaining these products and services on a timely basis. In some cases, these third-party provided products may not perform as expected or the services delivered may not meet contract specifications. These performance failures and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, may result in delays and additional costs to us including, in some cases, the cost of procuring alternate product or service providers, which may adversely impact our ability to complete a project on budget and in accordance with the original delivery schedule. To the extent these and the other matters referred to in the next paragraph occur, we may seek to recover any increased costs incurred by us from the responsible party; however, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in recovering all or a part of these costs in any or all circumstances. In certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion or the achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels by a scheduled date. Failure to meet schedule or performance requirements could result in additional costs to us, including the payment of contractually agreed liquidated damages. The amount of such additional costs could exceed our profit margins on the project. While we may seek to recover these amounts as claims from the supplier, vendor, subcontractor or other third party responsible for the delay or for providing non-conforming products or services, we cannot assure you that we will recover all or any part of these costs in all circumstances. Performance problems for existing and future projects could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from those anticipated by us and could damage our reputation within our industry and our customer base. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting for fixed-price contracts and our reporting of profits for cost-plus contracts prior to contract completion could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. A material portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion accounting practices that we use result in our recognizing fixed-price contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in the proportion that our actual costs bear to our estimated contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual fixed-price contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. We review our estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability on an ongoing basis. Prior to contract completion, we may adjust our estimates on one or more occasions as a result of change orders to the original contract, collection disputes with the customer on amounts invoiced or claims against the customer for increased costs incurred by us due to customer-induced delays and other factors. Contract losses are recognized in the fiscal period when the loss is determined. Contract profit estimates are also adjusted in the fiscal period in which it is determined that an adjustment is required. No restatements are made to prior periods. Further, a number of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives and penalties that impact the earnings we realize from our contracts, and adjustments related to these incentives and penalties are recorded in the period when estimable or finalized, which is generally during the latter stages of the contract. As a result of the requirements of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, the possibility exists, for example, that we could have estimated and reported a profit on a contract over several prior periods and later determined, usually near contract completion, that all or a portion of such previously estimated and reported profits were overstated. If this occurs, the full aggregate amount of the overstatement will be reported for the period in which such determination is made, thereby eliminating all or a portion of any profits from other contracts that would have otherwise been reported in such period or even resulting in a loss being reported for such period. Our financial loss exposure on cost-plus contracts is generally limited to a portion of our profit on the contract. However, it is possible that the customer could successfully dispute the costs we believe we incurred on the contract or assert that our costs were excessive for reasons such as poor project management or labor productivity. In addition, some cost-plus contracts contain penalty provisions which require us to pay amounts to the customer for failure to achieve certain milestones or performance standards. To the extent we are not able to recover the full amount of our costs under a cost-plus contract, including as a result of payments by us under contract penalty provisions, there would be a reduction, or possibly an elimination, of previously recognized and reported earnings. In certain circumstances it is possible that such adjustments could be material to our operating results. - 19 - Table of Contents We may incur significant costs in providing services in excess of original project scope without having an approved change order. After commencement of a contract, we may perform, without the benefit of an approved change order from the customer, additional services requested by the customer that were not contemplated in our contract price due to a change of mind by the customer or to incomplete or inaccurate engineering, project specifications and other similar information provided to us by the customer. Our construction contracts generally require the customer to compensate us for additional work or expenses incurred under these circumstances. A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record in the current period an adjustment to revenue and profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. Any such adjustments, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly for the period in which such adjustments are made. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, approved change orders from customers to pay us amounts adequate to compensate us for our additional work or expenses. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions, as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimation by our management include: • contract expenses and profits and application of percentage-of-completion accounting; • costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts; • provisions for uncollectible receivables and other collection disputes with customers for invoiced amounts; • the amount and collectibility of claims against customers, third-party suppliers, subcontractors and others for increased costs incurred by us that were caused by the actions or inactions of these parties, such as increased costs due to delays in their performance or to the failure of machinery, equipment and supplies provided by them to perform to agreed specifications; • provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; • recoverability of goodwill; • valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; and • accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, and in particular, project managers, our ability to manage the performance of our contracts and our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenues and profitability. Our ability to attract and retain qualified engineers, skilled craftsmen and other experienced professional personnel in accordance with our needs will be an important factor in determining our future profitability. The market for these professionals is competitive and the supply extremely limited, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to retain these personnel or to attract them when needed. Therefore, when we anticipate or experience growing demand for our services and those of our competitors, we may incur the cost of maintaining a professional staff in excess of our current contract needs in an effort to have available sufficient qualified personnel to address this anticipated demand. - 20 - Table of Contents Competent and experienced project managers are especially critical to the profitable performance of our contracts, and in particular, on our fixed-price contracts where superior execution of the contract can result in profits greater than originally estimated or where inferior contract execution can reduce or eliminate estimated profits or even produce a loss. Our project managers are involved in all aspects of contracting and contract performance including, among other things: • supervising the bidding process, including providing estimates of significant cost components such as material and equipment needs and the size and composition of the workforce; • negotiating contracts; • supervising contract performance, including performance by our employees, subcontractors and other third party suppliers and vendors; • determining the percentage of contract completion that is used by us to estimate amounts that can be reported as revenues and earnings on the contract under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting; • negotiating requests for change orders and the final terms of an approved change order; and • determining and documenting claims by us for increased costs incurred due to the failure of customers, subcontractors and other third-party suppliers of equipment and materials to perform on a timely basis and in accordance with contract terms. Our projects expose us to potential professional liability, product liability, warranty and other claims, which could be expensive, damage our reputation and harm our business. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance to cover these claims. We construct, perform services at and, to a lesser extent, engineer large industrial facilities in which accidents or system failures can be disastrous. Any catastrophic occurrence in excess of our insurance limits at locations engineered or constructed by us or where our products are installed or services performed could result in significant professional liability, product liability, warranty and other claims against us by our customers, including claims for cost overruns and the failure of the project to meet contractually specified milestones or performance standards. Further, the rendering of our services on these projects could expose us to risks to, and claims by, third parties and governmental agencies for personal injuries, property damage and environmental matters, among others. Any claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to us, a substantial diversion of management’s attention and adverse publicity, particularly for claims relating to environmental matters where the amount of the claim could be extremely large. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against the types of claims described above. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against the claims described above, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions in our regions of operation, which may harm our business and financial results. Our business may be adversely affected by severe weather, particularly in the Northeastern, East Coast and Midwest regions of the United States where we have significant operations. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: • curtailment of services; • suspension of operations; - 21 - Table of Contents • weather related damage to our facilities; • inability to deliver machinery, equipment and materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; and • loss of productivity. Work stoppages and other labor problems could adversely affect us. Some of our employees in the United States are represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppage on any of our projects could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations due to an inability to complete contracted projects in a timely manner. From time to time we have also experienced attempts to unionize certain of our non-union employees. While these efforts have achieved only limited success to date, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union activity in the future. We may incur unexpected liabilities associated with our acquisition of Hake Group, Inc. In March 2003, we acquired all of the capital stock of Hake Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Pursuant to the acquisition agreement, the former stockholders of Hake Group, Inc. indemnified us against certain liabilities related to the ownership and operation of the business prior to our acquisition. A portion of the acquisition purchase price consisted of deferred payments in the aggregate principal amount of $10 million which serve as collateral for certain of the indemnification obligations of the former Hake Group stockholders. The deferred payments are payable in increasing annual installments over five years which, in turn, gradually reduces the amount of collateral remaining to secure any indemnification claims. We cannot assure you that the remaining outstanding principal amount of these notes will be adequate to cover any valid indemnification claims or any exposure related to the indemnified liabilities. There are integration and consolidation risks associated with our growth strategy. Future acquisitions may also result in significant transaction expenses and risks associated with entering new markets and we may be unable to profitably operate our business. An aspect of our business strategy is to make strategic acquisitions in markets where we currently operate as well as in markets in which we have not previously operated. We may have difficulties identifying attractive acquisition candidates or we may be unable to acquire desired businesses on economically acceptable terms. Additionally, existing or future competitors may desire to compete with us for acquisition candidates that may have the effect of increasing acquisition costs or reducing the number of suitable acquisition candidates. We may not have the financial resources necessary to consummate any acquisitions or the ability to obtain the necessary funds on satisfactory terms. Any future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses and risks associated with entering new markets in addition to the integration and consolidation risks described above. We may not have sufficient management, financial and other resources to integrate future acquisitions. In the event we are unable to complete future strategic acquisitions, we may not grow in accordance with our expectations. If we make any future acquisitions, we likely will have exposure to third parties for liabilities of the acquired business that may or may not be adequately covered by insurance or by indemnification, if any, from the former owners of the acquired business. Any of these unexpected liabilities could have a material adverse effect on us. The loss of one or more of our significant customers could adversely affect us. From time to time due to the size of one or more of our contracts, one or more customers have in the past and may in the future contribute a material portion of our consolidated revenues in any one year. Because these significant customers generally contract with us for specific projects, we may lose these customers from year to year as their projects with us are completed. If we do not replace them with other customers or other projects, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we have long-standing relationships with many significant customers. However, our contracts with these customers are on a project-by-project basis, and these customers may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their use of our services at any time. The loss of business from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. - 22 - Table of Contents Environmental factors and changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning: • emissions into the air; • discharges into waterways; • generation, storage, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes; and • health and safety. Our projects often involve highly regulated materials, including hazardous wastes. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for regulated materials and require us to obtain permits and comply with various other requirements. The improper characterization, handling, or disposal of regulated materials or any other failure by us to comply with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations or associated environmental permits could subject us to the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent our ability to operate our business and complete contracted projects. In addition, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), and comparable state laws, we may be required to investigate and remediate regulated materials. CERCLA and these comparable state laws typically impose liability without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release, and liability for the entire cost of a clean-up can be imposed upon any responsible party. The environmental, workplace, employment and health and safety laws and regulations, among others, to which we are subject are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. It is impossible to predict the effect of any future changes to these laws and regulations on us. We cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations and/or a failure to comply with these laws will not significantly adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations or a reduced level of enforcement of existing laws and regulations could adversely affect the demand for our services and our results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations that reduce existing standards and a reduced level of enforcement of these laws and regulations could adversely affect the demand by our customers for many of our services. Proposed changes in regulations and the perception that enforcement of current environmental laws has been less strict has decreased the demand for some of our services, as customers have anticipated and adjusted to the potential changes. Future changes could result in a decreased demand for some of our services. The ultimate impact of any such future changes will depend upon a number of factors, including the overall strength of the economy and customer’s views on whether new or more restrictive regulations will be adopted or whether there will be a relaxing of the requirements and levels of enforcement of existing regulations and the cost-effectiveness of remedies available under changed regulations. If proposed or enacted changes materially reduce demand for our environmental services, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We face substantial competition in each of our business segments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business by reducing our ability to increase or maintain profitability. We face competition in all aspects of our business from numerous regional, national and international competitors, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our competitors include well-established, well-financed concerns, both privately and publicly held, including many major power equipment manufacturers, engineering and construction companies and internal engineering departments at utilities and certain of our customers. The markets that we serve require substantial resources and particularly highly skilled and experienced technical personnel. We believe we compete primarily on the basis of price, customer satisfaction, our safety record and programs, the quality of our products and services and our ability to timely - 23 - Table of Contents comply with project schedules. We may encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our common stock, which is listed on the Nasdaq National Market, has from time-to-time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are likely to continue in the future, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares of common stock or other securities whose price is related to that of our common stock at or above the purchase price paid. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including the following: • the risk factors described in this Annual Report, including the liquidity issues described above; • a shortfall in operating revenue or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry generally; • general conditions in our customers’ industries; and • general conditions in the security markets. Some companies that have volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to security class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, either by us, a member of management or a major stockholder, including the holders of our recently issued convertible notes, or the perception that these sales could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We may issue additional equity securities, which would lead to further dilution of our issued and outstanding stock. The recent issuance of convertible notes may cause an increase in the number of our shares of common stock outstanding of in excess of 37% of the number of shares currently outstanding. The issuance of additional common stock or securities convertible into our common stock would result in further dilution of the ownership interest in us held by existing stockholders. We are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, 4,800,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value, in one or more series, which may give other stockholders dividend, conversion, voting, and liquidation rights, among other rights, which may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock series, but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, we are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, a significant number of additional shares of our common stock and securities convertible into either common stock or preferred stock. - 24 - Table of Contents 