RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Generally Competition and shifting usage patterns are adversely affecting our revenues and profitability Our revenues and our profitability continue to be adversely affected by increasing competition and by changes in how customers use telecommunications services. Our fixed-line network services face increasing competition from other technologies –including wireless telephone service, wireless data service, cable television providers that offer telephone service, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service and others – and the substitution of fixed-line telephony by these technologies. This process has adversely affected our traffic volume and our results of operations and will likely continue to do so in the future. In addition to competition from other technologies, we also have numerous competitors in local service and in long-distance services. Governmental authorities in Mexico continue to grant new licenses and concessions to new market entrants, which results in increased competition. The Mexican authorities have also adopted regulations to permit cable television providers to provide voice-transmission services to local fixed-line telecommunications operators and data and broadband Internet access services to the Mexican public. As of December 31, 2009, 28 cable television providers, which have been granted a total of 60 concessions, have been authorized to provide local fixed-line voice-transmission service in various cities in Mexico. Regulations have also been adopted to allow us and other local telephone service providers to provide paid television and audio services, but to date we have been unable to obtain authorization to do so. The effects of competition on our business are highly uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, including economic conditions, regulatory developments, the behavior of our customers and competitors and the effectiveness of measures we take in response to competition. Our ability to compete successfully depends on customer service, marketing and our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry, including new services and technologies, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and the commercial strategies of our competitors. If we are unable to respond to competition and compensate for declining prices by adding new customers, increasing usage and offering new services, our revenues and profitability could decline. Regulatory developments could hurt our business by limiting our ability to pursue competitive and profitable strategies Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, and it can be adversely affected by changes in law, regulation or regulatory policy that limit our ability to modify our business strategy. In particular, the regulatory developments described below could adversely affect us. • Between November 2007 and February 2008, the Competition Commission (Comisión Federal de Competencia) began seven industry-wide investigations into market power and monopolistic practices in certain segments of the Mexican telecommunications market. In four of these investigations, final resolutions have concluded that we and our subsidiary, Teléfonos del Noroeste, S.A. de C.V. or Telnor, have substantial power in the relevant markets investigated. Based on these final resolutions, the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones, or Cofetel) could impose specific tariff requirements or other special regulations such as additional requirements regarding disclosure of information or quality of service. We have filed 6 Table of Contents petitions for constitutional protection (amparo) to challenge these resolutions, all of which are pending. The three remaining investigations, relating to monopolistic practices, are in the stage of information collection and analysis, and we cannot predict their outcome. Findings adverse to us in any of the Competition Commission proceedings may lead to the imposition of additional regulations, prohibitions or monetary penalties, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. • In February 2009, Cofetel published a Fundamental Technical Plan of Interconnection and Inter-Operability, or the Fundamental Technical Plan, which requires operators with the greatest number of access points to provide other operators with access to our network on an “unbundled” basis that disaggregates the prices for different service elements. We believe this may result in pricing network access at rates below the recovery cost for our infrastructure investments and may have a negative impact on us and the Mexican telecommunications sector in general. In October 2009, Cofetel issued two resolutions determining that we and Telnor are operators with the largest number of access points in our respective concession coverage areas. We have filed petitions for constitutional protection (amparo) against the Fundamental Technical Plan and these resolutions, which are pending. • In November 2005, Cofetel issued guidelines for making changes to local service areas, including the consolidation of such local service areas. We are challenging the legality of the underlying guidelines in the Mexican courts. If the guidelines are upheld and new resolutions to consolidate our local service areas are implemented, we believe this consolidation would have an adverse impact on our revenues from long-distance service. Adverse global economic conditions and, in particular, the slowdown of the U.S. and Mexican economies, could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition Our business is influenced by general economic conditions worldwide and in Mexico. Further deterioration in the economic environment could have an adverse effect on demand for some of our products and services. The Mexican economy is influenced by the U.S. economy, so a deterioration in economic conditions or delayed recovery of the U.S. economy may hinder a recovery in Mexico. In difficult economic conditions our customers may seek to reduce discretionary spending. Under these conditions our business customers may delay purchasing decisions, delay full implementation of service offerings or reduce their use of services. Adverse economic conditions may also lead to an increase in the number of our residential and business customers that are unable to pay for services. If these events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The ongoing uncertainty in global financial markets could adversely affect our financing costs and exposure to our customers and counterparties The recent instability in the global financial markets and ongoing uncertainty affecting these markets have resulted in extreme volatility in the credit, equity and fixed income markets. This volatility has limited many companies’ access to funding. If access to credit tightens further and borrowing costs rise, our costs could be adversely affected. Difficult financial markets may also adversely affect some of our customers, including other telecommunications carriers that pay us for interconnection and other services. In addition, we enter into derivative transactions with large financial institutions to support our treasury operations, including contracts to hedge our exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange, and we could be adversely affected by severe financial difficulties faced by our counterparties. 7 Table of Contents Our industry is subject to rapid technological changes, which could adversely affect our ability to compete The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid technological change. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. We expect that new products and technologies will emerge and that existing products and technologies will further develop. These new products and technologies may reduce the prices we can charge for our services or they may be superior to, and render obsolete, the products and services we offer and the technologies we use. They may consequently reduce the revenues generated by our products and services or require investment in new technology. As a result, our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to our markets that would not be burdened by an installed base of older equipment. Developments in the telecommunications sector may result in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of certain of our assets We review the value of our long-lived assets, where the circumstances require, to assess whether those carrying values can be supported by the future cash flows expected to be derived from those assets. In addition, whenever we consider that our fixed assets, intangible assets or goodwill may be impaired due to changes in the economic, regulatory or business environment, we consider the necessity of performing certain valuation tests, which may result in impairment charges. The recognition of impairments of long-lived tangible and intangible assets could result in a non-cash charge on our income statement, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A network failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers and revenues We will need to continue to provide our users with reliable service over our network. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include physical damage to our network, natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and storms, among others, and other disruptions beyond our control. Although we carry casualty insurance against loss and we have implemented redundancy in our network and installed backup technologies, disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and revenues or incur additional expenses. We are exposed to currency and interest rate risk on our debt, and we have entered into derivatives contracts to limit these risks A substantial part of our indebtedness is denominated in U.S. dollars, and we have relatively limited assets and revenues denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2009, our U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness amounted to P.66,643 million. In addition, a substantial part of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. As a result, we are exposed to risks from changing currency exchange rates and interest rates. To offset these risks, we enter into derivative financial instruments with large financial institutions to minimize the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates and variable interest rates on our indebtedness. We have not entered into derivative financial instruments for any other purposes, although we may do so in the future. The types of derivative instruments we have typically entered into in recent periods include cross-currency swaps (in which we generally pay peso amounts based on peso interest rates and receive U.S. dollar amounts based on dollar interest rates), interest-rate swaps (in which we generally pay amounts based on fixed interest rates and receive amounts based on variable interest rates) and forward exchange contracts (in which we generally agree to use pesos to purchase U.S. dollars at a future date). 8 Table of Contents Our derivative financial instruments do not provide complete protection against the exchange rate or interest-rate risk of our indebtedness. We may determine that the risks are acceptable or that the protection available through derivative financial instruments in the market is insufficient or too costly. These determinations depend on many factors, including market conditions, the specific risks in question, and our expectations concerning future market developments. We review and change our derivatives positions regularly, and our hedging policies change from time to time. When the financial markets are volatile, as they have been in recent periods, our results of operations may be substantially affected by variations in exchange rates and, to a lesser degree, interest rates. These effects include foreign exchange gain and loss on assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars, fair value gain and loss on derivative financial instruments, and changes in interest income and interest expense. These effects are much more volatile than our operating performance or our operating cash flows. We attempt to match the cash flows on our derivative financial instruments with the cash flows on our indebtedness. The net effects on our reported results in any period are difficult to predict and depend on market conditions and on the specifics of our derivatives positions. For example, in 2009 the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 3.5%. As a result, in 2009, we recognized a net exchange gain on our U.S. dollar denominated debt and a net fair value loss on currency derivatives. In 2009, we also recognized lower interest expense due to a lower average level of debt. Our derivative financial instruments are also subject to the risk that counterparties will default or seek bankruptcy protection. The instability and uncertainty in the financial markets has made it more difficult to assess the risk of counterparties to derivatives contracts. Moreover, in light of the greater volatility in the global securities and exchange markets, there may be fewer financial entities available with which we could continue entering into derivative financial instruments to protect against currency and interest rate risk. Substantially all our business is in Mexico, so we are affected by adverse economic or political conditions in Mexico Substantially all of our business operations and assets are located in Mexico. Our financial performance may be affected by general economic, political and social conditions in Mexico. In the past, Mexico has experienced both prolonged periods of weak economic conditions and deterioration in economic conditions that have had a negative impact on our company. Mexico has also experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates in the past, which significantly lowered the purchasing power of consumers and businesses. Mexico began to enter a recession in the fourth quarter of 2008, during which GDP fell by approximately 1.6%. GDP fell by an additional 6.5% in 2009. If the current Mexican economic downturn continues or worsens or if inflation and interest rates increase significantly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer material adverse consequences because, among other things, demand for telecommunications services may decrease and consumers may find it difficult to pay for the services we offer. Risks Relating to Our Controlling Shareholder and Capital Structure We are controlled by one shareholder A majority of the voting shares of our company (71.6% as of January 15, 2010) is owned by Carso Global Telecom, S.A.B. de C.V., or Carso Global Telecom. Carso Global Telecom has the effective power to designate a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and to determine the outcome of other actions requiring a vote of the shareholders, except in very limited cases that require a 9 Table of Contents vote of the holders of L Shares. Carso Global Telecom is controlled by Carlos Slim Helú and members of his immediate family, who, taken together, own a majority of the common stock of Carso Global Telecom. On May 11, 2010, América Móvil launched two concurrent public exchange offers to acquire the outstanding shares of Carso Global Telecom and Telmex Internacional. Shareholders of Carso Global Telecom have been offered 2.0474 shares of América Móvil for each share of Carso Global Telecom. If the exchange offer is accepted by the shareholders of Carso Global Telecom, América Móvil will indirectly acquire 59.4% of our shares. Like Carso Global Telecom, América Móvil is controlled by Carlos Slim Helú and members of his immediate family. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Mexico are different from those in the United States Our bylaws provide that any dispute between us and our shareholders will be governed by Mexican law and that legal actions relating to the execution, interpretation or performance of the bylaws may be brought only in Mexican courts. Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the case law concerning fiduciary duties of directors is not well developed, there is no procedure for class actions, there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits and there are different discovery rules. As a result, it may be more difficult in practice for minority shareholders of Telmex to enforce their rights against us, our directors or our controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. We engage in transactions with related parties that may create the potential for conflicts of interest We engage in transactions with entities that, like us, are controlled, directly or indirectly, by Carlos Slim Helú and members of his immediate family. These entities include (a) Telmex Internacional, and its subsidiaries, (b) Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V., or Grupo Carso, and its subsidiaries, (c) Grupo Financiero Inbursa, S.A.B. de C.V., or Grupo Financiero Inbursa, and its subsidiaries, (d) América Móvil and its subsidiaries, and (e) Carso Global Telecom. Our transactions with Telmex Internacional include the completion of international traffic in each other’s countries of operation, Telmex Internacional’s printing and distribution of our directories and Telmex Internacional’s access to our customer database and our billing and collection system in connection with its directories business. Transactions with Grupo Carso include the purchase of network construction services and materials, and transactions with Grupo Financiero Inbursa include financial services and insurance. The largest component of our transactions with América Móvil in terms of amounts paid is interconnection between our respective networks in Mexico. We pay fees for consulting and management services to Carso Global Telecom and AT&T International (one of our principal shareholders), and have agreements with AT&T International that provide for the completion of calls in our respective countries of operation. We may also make investments jointly with related parties, sell our investments to related parties and buy investments from related parties. We pursued joint investments with América Móvil to acquire equity interests in Compañía Anónima Nacional Teléfonos de Venezuela in 2006 and Olimpia, an Italian company that owns 18% of the total capital of Telecom Italia in 2007. Neither of these transactions was completed. Our transactions with related parties may create the potential for conflicts of interest. 10 Table of Contents Holders of L Shares and L Share ADSs have limited voting rights Our bylaws provide that holders of L Shares are not permitted to vote except on such limited matters as the transformation or merger of Telmex or the cancellation of registration of the L Shares with the National Securities Registry (Registro Nacional de Valores), managed by the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores), or any stock exchange on which they are listed. If you hold L Shares or L Share ADSs, you will not be able to vote on most matters, including the declaration of dividends, that are subject to a shareholder vote in accordance with our bylaws. Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may only vote through the ADS depositary Under Mexican law, a shareholder is required to deposit its shares with a custodian in order to attend a shareholders’ meeting. As long as a shareholder holds shares in ADS form, the shareholder will not be able to satisfy this requirement. There can be no assurance that holders of ADSs will receive notice of shareholders’ meetings from our ADS depositary in sufficient time to enable such holders to return voting instructions to the ADS depositary in a timely manner. In the event that instructions are not received with respect to any shares underlying ADSs, the ADS depositary will, subject to certain limitations, grant a proxy to a person designated by us. In the event that this proxy is not granted, the ADS depositary will vote these shares in the same manner as the majority of the shares of each class for which voting instructions are received. You may not be entitled to preemptive rights Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we generally must grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in Telmex. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. Preemptive rights do not arise upon the sale of newly issued shares in a public offering or the resale of shares of capital stock previously repurchased by us. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of ADSs or holders of L Shares or A Shares in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, with respect to that future issuance of shares. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC and any other factors that we consider important to determine whether we will file such a registration statement. We cannot assure you that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of ADSs or U.S. holders of L Shares or A Shares to participate in a preemptive rights offering. As a result, the equity interest of such holders in Telmex may be diluted proportionately. In addition, under current Mexican law, it is not practicable for the ADS depositary to sell preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds from such sales to ADS holders. Our bylaws restrict the acquisition of shares in some circumstances Our bylaws provide that any acquisition of more than 10% of our capital stock by any person or group of persons acting together requires the approval of our Board of Directors. If you wish to acquire more than 10% of our capital stock, you will not be able to do so without the approval of our Board of Directors. 11 Table of Contents Our bylaws restrict the ability of non-Mexican shareholders to invoke the protection of their governments with respect to their rights as shareholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican shareholders shall be considered as Mexicans in respect of their ownership interests in Telmex and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments in certain circumstances. Under this provision, a non-Mexican shareholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of his own government by asking such government to interpose a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to the shareholder’s rights as a shareholder, but is not deemed to have waived any other rights he may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to his investment in Telmex. If you invoke such governmental protection in violation of this agreement, your shares could be forfeited to the Mexican government. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons Telmex is organized under the laws of Mexico, and most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our directors, officers and controlling persons are located in Mexico. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Mexico, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. 12 Table of Contents 