risk factors on our business. Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. 3 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a globally-recognized leading provider of end-to-end, global supply chain solutions through which we design, build, ship and service a complete packaged electronic product to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") in the following markets: •High Reliability Solutions ("HRS"), which is comprised of our medical, automotive, defense and aerospace businesses; •High Velocity Solutions ("HVS"), which includes our mobile devices business, including smart phones, and consumer electronics, including game consoles, high-volume computing business, including notebook personal computing ("PC"), tablets and printers; •Industrial and Emerging Industries ("IEI"), which is comprised of our large household appliances, equipment, and emerging industries businesses; and •Integrated Network Solutions ("INS"), which includes our telecommunications infrastructure, data networking, connected home, and server and storage businesses. We provide our advanced design, manufacturing and services through a network of facilities in over 30 countries across four continents. We have established this extensive network of manufacturing facilities in the world's major electronics markets (Asia, the Americas and Europe) in order to serve the outsourcing needs of both multinational and regional OEMs. Our services increase customer competitiveness by delivering improved product quality, leading manufacturability, improved performance, faster time-to-market and reduced costs. Our OEM customers leverage our services to meet their requirements throughout their products' entire life cycles. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, we had revenue of $23.6 billion and net income of $277.1 million. We believe that the combination of our extensive design and engineering services, significant scale and global presence, end-to-end services, advanced supply chain management, industrial parks in low-cost geographic areas and operational track record provide us with a competitive advantage in the market for designing, manufacturing and servicing electronics products for leading multinational and regional OEMs. Through these services and facilities, we offer our OEM customers the ability to simplify their global product development, their manufacturing process, their after sales services and enable our OEM customers to achieve meaningful reductions to time-to-market and costs. Our business has been subject to seasonality primarily due to our mobile devices market and our consumer devices market, which historically exhibit particular strength in the two quarters leading up to the end of the calendar year in connection with the holiday season. INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Our expertise is in the design, manufacturing and services for a broad range of products, and as such, the closest definition of our industry is the outsourcing Electronics Manufacturing Services ("EMS") industry. EMS has experienced significant change and growth as an increasing number of companies elected to outsource some or all of their design, manufacturing, and distribution requirements. We have seen an increase in global OEM manufacturing demand since the 2001 - 2002 technology downturn as more and more OEMs pursued the benefits of outsourcing rather than internal manufacturing. Due to the global economic crisis, which began in late calendar year 2007 and continued through the end of our fiscal year 2010, many of our OEM customers reduced their manufacturing and supply chain outsourcing which negatively impacted our business. In fiscal year 2011, we began seeing some positive signs that demand for our OEM customers' end products was improving, and this trend continued through the end of our 2012 fiscal year. However our revenue in fiscal year 2013 declined compared to that of the prior year, primarily due to our exit from the high 4 Table of Contents volume and low margin Original Design and Manufacturing ("ODM") PC business last year. The EMS industry has not fully recovered from the last macro-economic downturn and as a result, during fiscal 2013 the Company initiated certain restructuring activities intended to improve operational efficiencies. The growth of the overall industry for calendar 2012 is estimated to have been greater than 4%. We believe the total available market for outsourcing EMS continues to offer opportunities for growth with current penetration rates estimated to be less than 23%. The intensely competitive nature of the electronics industry, the continually increasing complexity and sophistication of electronics products, pressure on OEMs to reduce product costs and shorter product life cycles encourage OEMs to utilize broad manufacturing and service providers as part of their business and manufacturing strategies. Utilizing global manufacturing and service providers allows OEMs to take advantage of the global design, manufacturing and supply chain management expertise of such providers, and enables OEMs to concentrate on product research, development, marketing and sales. We believe that OEMs realize the following benefits through their strategic relationships with manufacturing and service providers: •Reduced production costs; •Reduced design and development costs and lead time; •Accelerated time-to-market and time-to-volume production; •Reduced capital investment requirements and fixed costs; •Improved inventory management and purchasing power; •Access to worldwide design, engineering, manufacturing, and after-market service capabilities; and •Ability to focus on core branding and R&D initiatives. We believe that growth in the EMS industry will be driven largely by the needs of OEMs to respond to rapidly changing markets and technologies and to reduce product costs. Additionally, we believe that there are significant opportunities for global manufacturing and service providers to win additional business from OEMs in certain markets or industry segments that have yet to substantially utilize such providers. SERVICE OFFERINGS We offer a broad range of customer-tailored services to OEMs. We believe that Flextronics has the broadest worldwide capabilities in the industry, from design resources to end-to-end global supply chain services. We believe a key competitive advantage is our ability to provide more value and innovation to our customers because we offer both global economies of scale in procurement, manufacturing and after-market services, as well as market-focused expertise and capabilities in design and engineering. As a result of our focus on specific markets, we believe we are able to better understand complex market dynamics and anticipate trends that impact our OEM customers' businesses, and can help improve our OEM customers' market positioning by effectively adjusting product plans and roadmaps to deliver low-cost, high quality products and meet their time-to-market requirements. Our services allow us to design, build, ship and service a complete packaged electronics product for our OEM customers. These services include: Design and Engineering Services. We offer a comprehensive range of value-added design and engineering services that are tailored to the various markets and needs of our customers. These services can be delivered by three primary business models: •Contract Design Services, where the customer purchases engineering and development services on a time and materials basis; 5 Table of Contents •Joint Development Manufacturing services, where Flextronics' engineering and development teams work jointly with our customers' teams to ensure product development integrity, seamless manufacturing handoffs, and faster time to market; and •Original Design and Manufacturing services, where the customer purchases a product that we design, develop and manufacture. ODM products are then sold by our OEM customers under the OEMs' brand names. We have provided ODM services in various markets including Industrial, Automotive, Medical, and Infrastructure and Power Supplies. Our design and engineering services are provided by our global, market-based engineering teams and cover a broad range of technical competencies: •System Architecture, User Interface and Industrial Design. We help our customers design and develop innovative and cost-effective products that address the needs of the user and the market. These services include product definition, analysis and optimization of performance and functional requirements, 2-D sketch level drawings, 3-D mock-ups and proofs of concept, interaction and interface models, detailed hard models and product packaging. •Mechanical Engineering, Technology, Enclosure Systems, Thermal and Tooling Design. We offer detailed mechanical, structural, and thermal design solutions for enclosures that encompass a wide range of plastic, metal and other material technologies. These capabilities and technologies are increasingly important to our customers' product differentiation goals and are increasingly required to be successful in today's competitive marketplace. Additionally, we provide design and development services for prototype and production tooling equipment used in manufacturing. •Electronic System Design. We provide complete electrical and hardware design for products ranging in size from small handheld consumer devices to large high-speed, carrier-grade, telecommunications equipment, which includes embedded microprocessor, memory, digital signal processing design, high-speed digital interfaces, analog circuit design, power management solutions, wired and wireless communication protocols, display imaging, audio/video, and radio frequency system and antenna design. •Reliability and Failure Analysis. We provide comprehensive design for manufacturing, test and reliability services using robust tools and databases that have been developed internally. These services are important in achieving our customers' time to revenue goals and leverage our core manufacturing competencies. •Component Level Development Engineering. We have developed substantial engineering competencies for product development and lifecycle management in support of various component technologies. These components also form a key part of our strategy and currently include power supplies and power solutions, and Printed Circuit Board and Interconnection Technologies, both rigid and flexible. We are exposed to different or greater potential liabilities from our various design services than those we face in our core assembly and manufacturing services. See "Risk Factors—The success of certain of our activities depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business." Systems Assembly and Manufacturing. Our assembly and manufacturing operations, which generate the majority of our revenues, include printed circuit board assembly and assembly of systems and subsystems that incorporate printed circuit boards and complex electromechanical components. We often assemble electronics products with our proprietary printed circuit boards and custom electronic enclosures on either a build-to-order or configure-to-order basis. In these operations, we employ just-in-time, ship-to-stock and ship-to-line programs, continuous flow 6 Table of Contents manufacturing, demand flow processes, and statistical process controls. As OEMs seek to provide greater functionality in smaller products, they increasingly require more sophisticated manufacturing technologies and processes. Our investment in advanced manufacturing equipment and our experience and expertise in innovative miniaturization, packaging and interconnect technologies, enables us to offer a variety of advanced manufacturing solutions. We support a wide range of product demand profiles, from low—volume, high-complexity programs to high-volume production. Continuous focus on lean manufacturing, a systematic approach to identifying and eliminating waste (non-value-added activities) through continuous improvement based on customer demand, allows us to increase our efficiency and flexibility to meet our customers' dynamic requirements. Our systems assembly and manufacturing expertise includes the following: •Enclosures. We offer a comprehensive set of custom electronics enclosures and related products and services worldwide. Our services include the design, manufacture and integration of electronics packaging systems, including custom enclosure systems, power and thermal subsystems, interconnect subsystems, cabling and cases. In addition to standard sheet metal and plastic fabrication services, we assist in the design of electronics packaging systems that protect sensitive electronics and enhance functionality. Our enclosure design services focus on functionality, manufacturability and testing. These services are integrated with our other assembly and manufacturing services to provide our customers with overall improved supply chain management. •Testing Services. We also offer computer-aided testing services for assembled printed circuit boards, systems and subsystems. These services significantly improve our ability to deliver high-quality products on a consistent basis. Our test services include management defect analysis, in-circuit testing and functional testing as well as environmental stress tests of board and system assemblies. We offer design for test, design for manufacturing and design for environment services to our customers to jointly improve customer product design and manufacturing. •Materials Procurement and Inventory Management. Our manufacturing and assembly operations capitalize on our materials inventory management expertise and volume procurement capabilities. As a result, we believe that we are able to achieve highly competitive cost reductions and reduce total manufacturing cycle time for our OEM customers. Materials procurement and management consist of the planning, purchasing, expediting and warehousing of components and materials used in the manufacturing process. In addition, our strategy includes having third-party suppliers of custom components located in our industrial parks to reduce material and transportation costs, simplify logistics and facilitate inventory management. We also use a sophisticated automated manufacturing resource planning system and enhanced electronic data interchange capabilities to ensure inventory control and optimization. Through our manufacturing resources planning system, we have real-time visibility of material availability and are able to track the work in process. We utilize electronic data interchange with our customers and suppliers to implement a variety of supply chain management programs. Electronic data interchange allows customers to share demand and product forecasts and deliver purchase orders and assists suppliers with satisfying just-in-time delivery and supplier-managed inventory requirements. This also enables us to implement vendor managed inventory solutions to increase flexibility and reduce overall capital allocation in the supply chain. We procure a wide assortment of materials, including electronic components, plastics and metals. There are a number of sources for these materials, including from customers for whom we are providing systems assembly and manufacturing services. On some occasions, there have been shortages in certain electronic components, most recently with regard to connectors, capacitors, LCD panels and memory (both DRAM 7 Table of Contents and Flash). However, such shortages have not had a material impact on our operating results for any periods presented. See "Risk Factors—We may be adversely affected by shortages of required electronic components." Component businesses. The Company offers the following component product solutions: •Rigid and Flexible Printed Circuit Board ("PCB") Fabrication. Printed circuit boards are platforms composed of laminated materials that provide the interconnection for integrated circuits, passive and other electronic components and thus are at the heart of almost every electrical system. They are formed out of multi-layered epoxy resin and glass cloth systems with very fine traces and spaces and plated holes (called vias), which interconnect the different layers to an extremely dense circuitry network that carries the integrated circuits and electrical signals. As semiconductor designs become more and more complex and signal speeds increase, there is an increasing demand on printed circuit board integration density requiring higher layer counts, finer lines and spacings, smaller vias (microvias) and base materials with electrically very low loss characteristics. The manufacturing of these complex multilayer interconnect products often requires the use of sophisticated circuit interconnections between layers, and adherence to strict electrical characteristics to maintain consistent circuit transmission speeds and impedances. The global demand for wireless devices and the complexity of wireless products are driving the demand for more flexible printed circuits. Flexible circuit boards facilitate a reduction in the weight of a finished electronic product and allow the designer to use the third dimension in designing new products or product features. Flexible circuits have become a very attractive design alternative for many new and emerging application spaces such as automotive rear LED lightning, tablet computers, and miniaturized radio frequency identification tags or smart cards. We are an industry leader in high-density interconnect with the Every Layer Inter Connect ("ELIC") technology, which is used in smart phone designs, and multilayer constructions which are used in advanced routers and switches, telecom equipment, servers, storage, and flexible printed circuit boards and flexible printed circuit board assemblies. Our PCB business (Multek) manufactures printed circuit boards on a low-volume, quick-turn basis, as well as on a high-volume production basis. We provide quick-turn prototype services that allow us to provide small test quantities to meet the needs of customers' product development groups in as little as 48 hours. Our extensive range of services enables us to respond to our customers' demands for an accelerated transition from prototype to volume production. Multek offers a one stop solution from design to manufacturing of PCB, flexible circuits and rigid flex circuits and sub-assemblies. We have printed circuit board service capabilities in North America, South America, Europe and Asia, and flexible circuit fabrication service capabilities in North America and Asia. During fiscal year 2013 we began consolidating Multek's footprint and rationalizing its operations and expect to fully complete the closing of our Multek factories in Germany and Brazil during fiscal year 2014. We believe this will drive operational efficiencies, and result in an optimization of our system, which will lower the revenue level required to achieve better margins. Going forward our capabilities will be centered in Asia and North America. •Power Supplies. We have a full service power supply business ("Flex Power") that specializes in high efficiency and high density switching power supplies ranging from 1 to 3,000 watts. The product portfolio includes chargers for the mobile phones and the fast-growing tablet markets, adapters for notebooks and printers and boxed power supplies for the desktop markets along with networking, server and storage markets. We pride ourselves in our ability to service the needs of industry leaders in these markets through collaborative development and efficient program management execution. Our products are fully compliant with environmental and Energy Star industry requirements that drive 8 Table of Contents efficiency specifications in the industry. Customers who engage with Flex Power get the advantage of our technological innovations in such areas as digital control or smart power, while still managing to offer competitive pricing. Our unique platform development approach enables our customers to get to their markets faster. Logistics. Flextronics Global Services is a provider of after-market supply chain logistics services. Our comprehensive suite of services serve customers operating in the computing, consumer digital, infrastructure, industrial, mobile and medical markets. Our expansive global infrastructure consists of 25 sites and more than 12,000 employees strategically located throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia. By leveraging our operational infrastructure, supply chain network, and IT systems, we have the capability of offering globally consistent logistics solutions for our customers' brands. By linking the flow of information from the supply chains, we create supply chain efficiencies delivering value to our customers. We provide multiple logistics solutions including supplier managed inventory, inbound freight management, product postponement, build/configure to order, order fulfillment and distribution, and supply chain network design. Reverse Logistics and Repair Services. We offer a suite of integrated reverse logistics and repair solutions that are operated on globally consistent processes, which help our customers protect their brand loyalty in the marketplace by improving turnaround times and end-customer satisfaction levels. Our objective is to maintain maximum asset value retention of our customers' products throughout their product life cycle while simultaneously minimizing non-value repair inventory levels and handling in the supply chain. With our suite of end-to-end solutions, we can effectively manage our customers' reverse logistics requirements while also providing critical feedback of data to their supply chain constituents and delivering continuous improvement and efficiencies for both existing and next generation products. Our reverse logistics and repair solutions include returns management, exchange programs, complex repair, asset recovery, recycling and e-waste management. We provide repair expertise to multiple product lines such as consumer and midrange products, printers, PDA's, mobile phones, consumer medical devices, notebooks, PC's, set-top boxes, game consoles and highly complex infrastructure products. With our service parts logistics business, we manage all of the logistics and restocking processes essential to the efficient operation of repair and refurbishment services. STRATEGY Our company's goal is to empower talented employees to develop global supply chain solutions that transforms industries and companies. At our core, we are a world-class global design, manufacturing and services company. Our strategy is to maintain our leadership in these core capabilities and to build on these through extended offerings in high-growth sectors. Talent. To maintain our competitiveness and world-class capabilities, we are renewing our focus on hiring and retaining the world's best talent. We have taken steps to attract the best functional and operational leaders and accelerated efforts at developing the future leaders of the company. Customer-Focus. We believe that serving aspiring leaders in dynamic industries pushes the development of our core skills and results in superior growth and profitability. Our customers come first, and we have a relentless focus on delivering distinctive products and services in a cost-effective manner with fast time-to-market. Market-Focus. We apply a rigorous approach to managing our portfolio of opportunities by focusing on companies and industries that value our superior capabilities in design, manufacturing and service and that are leaders in their industry. We are focusing our energy and efforts on high-growth markets where we have distinctive competence and a compelling value proposition. 9 Table of Contents Examples include our investments in clean-tech, healthcare, infrastructure, automotive, services and investments in a number of enabling components technologies. Our market focused approach to managing our business increases our customers' competitiveness by leveraging our global resources and responsiveness to changes in market dynamics. Global Operations Capabilities. We continue to invest in maintaining the leadership of our world-class manufacturing and services capabilities. We constantly push the state of the art in manufacturing technology, process development and operations management. We believe these skills represent a significant competitive advantage. We continue to capitalize on our industrial park concept, where we co-locate our manufacturing, design, and service resources in low cost regions, to provide a competitive advantage by minimizing logistics, manufacturing costs and cycle times while increasing flexibility and responsiveness. Our ability to cost effectively manage a massive worldwide system, is itself a major competitive advantage. Extended Value Propositions. We continue to extend our distinctiveness in manufacturing into new value propositions that leverage our core capabilities. We opportunistically invest in new capabilities and services to provide our customers with a broader value added suite of services and solutions to meet their product and market requirements. We continue to develop manufacturing process technologies that reduce cost and improve product performance. COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS We continue to enhance our business through the development and broadening of our product and service offerings. Our focus is to be a flexible organization with repeatable execution that adapts to macro-economic changes and creates value which increases our customers' competitiveness. We have concentrated our strategy on market-focused expertise, capabilities, services and our global supply chain services. We believe that the following capabilities differentiate us from our competitors and enable us to better serve our customers' requirements: Significant Scale and Global Integrated System. We believe that scale is a significant competitive advantage, as our customers' solutions increasingly require cost structures and capabilities that can only be achieved through size and global reach. We are a leader in global procurement, purchasing approximately $21.5 billion of materials during our fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. As a result, we are able to use our worldwide supplier relationships to achieve advantageous pricing and supply chain flexibility for our OEM customers. We have established an extensive, integrated network of design, manufacturing and logistics facilities in the world's major electronics markets to serve the outsourcing needs of both multinational and regional OEMs. Our extensive global network of facilities in over 30 countries with approximately 149,000 employees gives us the ability to increase the competitiveness of our customers by simplifying their global product development processes while also delivering improved product quality with improved performance and accelerated time to market. Operating and executing this complex worldwide solutions system is a competitive advantage. End-to-End Solution. We offer a comprehensive range of worldwide supply chain services that simplify and improve the global product development process and provide meaningful time and cost savings to our OEM customers. Our broad based, end-to-end services enable us to cost effectively design, build, ship and service a complete packaged product. We believe that our capabilities also help our customers improve product quality, manufacturability and performance, and reduce costs. We have expanded and enhanced our service offering by adding capabilities in machining, flexible printed circuit boards, and power supplies, as well as by introducing new capabilities in areas such as solar equipment, large format stamping and chargers. 10 Table of Contents Long-Standing Customer Relationships. We believe that maintaining our long-term relationships with key customers is a critical requirement for maintaining our market position, growth and profitability. We believe that our ability to maintain and grow these customer relationships results from our ability to continuously create value that increases our customers' competitiveness. We achieve this through our broad range of service offerings and solutions, and our market-focused approach, which allows us to provide innovative thinking to all of the manufacturing and related services that we provide to our customers. We continue to receive numerous service and quality awards that further validate the success of these programs. Extensive Design and Engineering Capabilities. We have an industry leading global design service offering with extensive product design engineering resources that provide global design services, products, and solutions to satisfy a wide array of customer requirements across all of our key markets. We combine our design and manufacturing services to provide end-to-end customized solutions that include services from design layout, through product industrialization and product development, including the manufacture of components and complete products (such as smart phones), which are then sold by our OEM customers under the OEMs' brand names. Geographic, Customer and End Market Diversification. We believe that we have created a well-diversified and balanced company. We have diversified our business across multiple end markets, significantly expanding our available market. The world is undergoing change and macro-economic disruptions that has led to demand shifts and realignments. We believe that we are well positioned through our market diversification to grow in excess of the industry average and successfully navigate through difficult economic climates. Our broad geographic footprint and experience with multiple types and complexity levels of products provide us a significant competitive advantage. We continually look for new ways to diversify our offering within each market segment. Industrial Parks; Low-Cost Manufacturing Services. We have developed self-contained campuses that co-locate our manufacturing and logistics operations with our suppliers at a single, low-cost location. These industrial parks enhance our total supply chain management, while providing a low-cost, multi-technology solution for our customers. This approach increases the competitiveness of our customers by reducing logistical barriers and costs, improving communications, increasing flexibility, lowering transportation costs and reducing turnaround times. We have strategically established our large industrial parks in Brazil, China, Hungary, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, and Romania. We have certain of our manufacturing operations situated in low-cost regions of the world to provide our customers with a wide array of manufacturing solutions and low manufacturing costs. As of March 31, 2013, approximately 76% of our manufacturing capacity was located in low-cost locations, such as Brazil, China, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, Romania, Singapore, and Ukraine. We believe we are a global industry leader in low-cost production capabilities. CUSTOMERS Our customers include many of the world's leading technology companies. We have focused on establishing long-term relationships with our customers and have been successful in expanding our relationships to incorporate additional product lines and services. In fiscal year 2013, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 47% of net sales. No customer accounted for greater than 10% of the Company's net sales in fiscal 2013. 11 Table of Contents The following table lists in alphabetical order a sample of our largest customers in fiscal year 2013 and the end products of those customers for which we provide design, manufacturing or after-market services: Customer End Products Alcatel-Lucent Business telecommunications systems and core routers and switches Apple Smartphones, notebooks and desktop computing, tablets and consumer entertainment devices Cisco Core routers and switches, wireless and enterprise telecommunications infrastructure Ericsson Radio base stations for Long Term Evolution and GSM infrastructure Ford Motor Company SYNC Modules, Lighting Products, Solenoids and Motion Control Electronics Hewlett-Packard Notebook and netbook computers, inkjet printers and storage devices Huawei Technologies Wireless and enterprise telecommunications infrastructure and smartphones Lenovo All-in-one desktop, desktop and notebook computers Microsoft Computer peripherals and consumer electronics products Research In Motion Smartphones and other mobile communication devices BACKLOG Although we obtain firm purchase orders from our customers, OEM customers typically do not make firm orders for delivery of products more than 30 to 90 days in advance. In addition, OEM customers may reschedule or cancel firm orders based upon contractual arrangements. Therefore, we do not believe that the backlog of expected product sales covered by firm purchase orders is a meaningful measure of future sales. COMPETITION Our market is extremely competitive and includes many companies, several of which have achieved substantial market share. We compete against numerous domestic and foreign manufacturing service providers, as well as our current and prospective customers, who evaluate our capabilities in light of their own capabilities and cost structures. We face particular competition from Asian based competitors, including Taiwanese ODM suppliers who compete in a variety of our end markets and have a substantial share of global information technology hardware production. We compete with different companies depending on the type of service we are providing or the geographic area in which an activity takes place. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the manufacturing services market are: quality and range of services; design and technological capabilities; cost; location of facilities; responsiveness and flexibility. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our corporate social responsibility practices focus on global human rights, global environmental conditions, business ethics, and the health and safety of all stakeholders. We do this with controlled business processes, thus ensuring that our business is conducted in a manner that goes beyond compliance alone. We operate programs, including compliance audits and compliance capability building programs that focus on driving continuous improvements in social, ethical, and environmental compliance throughout all of our global operating units in accordance with our Code of Conduct. As a guide to achieve this end, Flextronics looks at principles, policies, and standards as prescribed by the 12 Table of Contents Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition ("EICC"), a worldwide association of electronics companies committed to promoting an industry code of conduct for global electronics supply chains to improve working and environmental conditions. Flextronics is a founding member of the EICC coalition. Being a good corporate citizen does not mean that we should merely conform to the standards. We extend beyond meeting responsibilities by offering a wide range of programs and initiatives that engage our internal and external communities. At the heart of this endeavor lies our pragmatic goal of creating a difference to the people in the community in which we operate. We intend to continue to invest in these global communities through grant-making, financial contributions, volunteer work, support programs and by donating resources. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), Section 1502 introduces reporting requirements related to the verification of whether Flextronics directly (or indirectly through suppliers of materials) is purchasing the minerals or metals gold, columbite-tantalite. cassiterite, wolframite and their derivatives: tin, tungsten, and tantalum that are being provided by sources in the conflict region of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the surrounding neighbor countries. Flextronics is working directly with suppliers, industry groups, and customers to comply with the due diligence reporting requirements necessary to comply with the new law. See "Risk Factor—Compliance with government regulations regarding the use of "conflict minerals" may result in increased costs and risks to us." ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including laws governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We have fully implemented processes and procedures to ensure that our operations are in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. We do not believe that costs of compliance with these laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, operating results, or competitive position. In addition, we are responsible for cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing facilities and at some third-party sites. We engage environmental consulting firms to assist us in the evaluation of environmental liabilities of our ongoing operations, historical disposal activities and closed sites in order to establish appropriate accruals in our financial statements. We determine the amount of our accruals for environmental matters by analyzing and estimating the probability of occurrence and the reasonable possibility of incurring costs in light of information currently available. The imposition of more stringent standards or requirements under environmental laws or regulations, the results of future testing and analysis undertaken by us at our operating facilities, or a determination that we are potentially responsible for the release of hazardous substances at other sites could result in expenditures in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. While no material exposures have been identified to date that we are aware of, there can be no assurance that additional environmental matters will not arise in the future or that costs will not be incurred with respect to sites as to which no problem is currently known. We are also required to comply with an increasing number of product environmental compliance regulations focused on the restriction of certain hazardous substances. For example, the electronics industry is subject to the European Union's ("EU") Restrictions on Hazardous Substances ("RoHS") 2011/65/EU, Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ("WEEE") 2012/19/EU directives, the regulation EC 1907/2006 EU Directive REACH ("Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals"), and China RoHS entitled, Management Methods for Controlling Pollution for Electronic Information Products ("EIPs"). Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States. Our business requires close collaboration with our customers and suppliers to mitigate risk of non-compliance. We have developed rigorous risk mitigating compliance programs designed to meet the needs of our customers as well as the regulations. These 13 Table of Contents programs vary from collecting compliance or material data from our Flextronics owned suppliers to full laboratory testing, and we require our supply chain to comply. Non-compliance could potentially result in significant costs and/or penalties. RoHS and other similar legislation bans or restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other specified substances in electronics products and WEEE requires EU importers and/or producers to assume responsibility for the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. In the case of WEEE, although the compliance responsibility rests primarily with the EU importers and/or producers rather than with EMS companies, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their WEEE obligations. New technical classifications of e-Waste being discussed in the Basel Convention technical working group could affect both Flextronics and Flextronics' customers abilities and obligations in electronics repair and refurbishment. Flextronics continues to monitor these discussions and is working with our customers and other technical organizations to minimize the impact to legal and responsibly managed repair operations. EMPLOYEES As of March 31, 2013, our global workforce totaled approximately 149,000 employees. In certain international locations, our employees are represented by labor unions and by work councils. We have never experienced a significant work stoppage or strike, and we believe that our employee relations are good. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of key managerial and technical employees. The loss of such personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and business prospects. To date, we have not experienced significant difficulties in attracting or retaining such personnel. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We own or license various United States and foreign patents relating to a variety of technologies. For certain of our proprietary processes, we rely on trade secret protection. We also have registered our corporate name and several other trademarks and service marks that we use in our business in the United States and other countries throughout the world. As of March 31, 2013 and 2012, the carrying value of our intellectual property was not material. Although we believe that our intellectual property assets and licenses are sufficient for the operation of our business as we currently conduct it, from time to time third parties do assert patent infringement claims against us or our customers. In addition, we provide design and engineering services to our customers and designing and making our own products. As a consequence of these activities, our customers are requiring us to take responsibility for intellectual property to a greater extent than in our manufacturing and assembly businesses. If and when third parties make assertions regarding the ownership or right to use intellectual property, we could be required to either enter into licensing arrangements or to resolve the issue through litigation. Such license rights might not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, and any such litigation might not be resolved in our favor. Additionally, litigation could be lengthy and costly and could materially harm our financial condition regardless of the outcome. We also could be required to incur substantial costs to redesign a product or re-perform design services. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS Refer to note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 for financial information about our geographic areas. 14 Table of Contents ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our internet address is http://www.flextronics.com. We make available through our Internet website the Company's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We were incorporated in the Republic of Singapore in May 1990. Our principal corporate office is located at 2 Changi South Lane, Singapore 486123. Our U.S. corporate headquarters is located at 6201 America Center Drive, San Jose, CA, 95002. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We depend on industries that continually produce technologically advanced products with short life cycles and our business would be adversely affected if our customers' products are not successful or if our customers lose market share. We derive our revenues from customers in the following markets: •HRS, which is comprised of our medical, automotive, defense and aerospace businesses; •HVS, which includes our mobile devices business, including smart phones, and consumer electronics, including game consoles, high-volume computing business, including notebook personal computing ("PC"), tablets and printers; •IEI, which is comprised of our large household appliances, equipment, and emerging industries businesses; and •INS, which includes our telecommunications infrastructure, data networking, connected home, and server and storage businesses. Factors affecting any of these industries in general or our customers in particular, could adversely impact us. These factors include: •rapid changes in technology, evolving industry standards and requirements for continuous improvement in products and services result in short product life cycles; •demand for our customers' products may be seasonal; •our customers may fail to successfully market their products, and our customers' products may fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance; •our customers may experience dramatic market share shifts in demand which may cause them to exit the business; and •there may be recessionary periods in our customers' markets, such as the recent global economic downturn. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or locations, or delay production, and the inherent difficulties involved in responding to these demands could harm our business. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers have harmed, and may continue to harm, our results of operations by reducing the volumes of products we manufacture and deliver for these customers, by causing a delay in the repayment of our expenditures for inventory in preparation for customer orders and by lowering our asset utilization resulting in lower gross margins. Additionally, current and prospective customers continuously evaluate our capabilities against other providers as well as against the merits of manufacturing products themselves. Our 15 Table of Contents business would be adversely affected if OEMs decide to perform these functions internally or transfer their business to another provider. As a provider of electronics design and manufacturing services and components, we must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround time for our customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and we often experience reduced lead times in customer orders which may be less than the lead time we require to procure necessary components and materials. The short-term nature of our customers' commitments and the rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of our customers. This makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity. In that regard, we must make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, setting production schedules, making component procurement commitments, and allocating personnel and other resources, based on our estimates of our customers' requirements. On occasion, customers require rapid increases in production or require that manufacturing of their products be transitioned from one facility to another to reduce costs or achieve other objectives. These demands stress our resources and reduce our margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers' demands, and transfers from one facility to another can result in inefficiencies and costs due to excess capacity in one facility and corresponding capacity constraints at another. Due to many of our costs and operating expenses being relatively fixed, customer order fluctuations, deferrals and transfers of demand from one facility to another, as described above, have had a material adverse effect on our operating results in the past and we may experience such effects in the future. Our industry is extremely competitive; if we are not able to continue to provide competitive services, we may lose business. We compete with a number of different companies, depending on the type of service we provide or the location of our operations. For example, we compete with major global EMS providers, other smaller EMS companies that have a regional or product-specific focus and ODMs with respect to some of the services that we provide. We also compete with our current and prospective customers, who evaluate our capabilities in light of their own capabilities and cost structures. Our industry is extremely competitive, many of our competitors have achieved substantial market share, and some may have lower cost structures or greater design, manufacturing, financial or other resources than we do. We face particular competition from Asian-based competitors, including Taiwanese ODM suppliers who compete in a variety of our end markets and have a substantial share of global information technology hardware production. If we are unable to provide comparable manufacturing services and improved products at lower cost than the other companies in our market, our net sales could decline. The majority of our sales come from a small number of customers and a decline in sales to any of these customers could adversely affect our business. Sales to our ten largest customers represent a significant percentage of our net sales. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 47%, 55% and 52% of net sales in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. No customer accounted for greater than 10% of the Company's net sales in fiscal 2013. Our largest customers during fiscal year 2012 were Hewlett-Packard (HP) and Research In Motion (RIM), which each accounted for more than 10% of net sales. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal year 2012. Our largest customer during fiscal year 2011 was Research In Motion which accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2011. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal year 2011. Our principal customers have varied from year to year. These customers may experience dramatic declines in their market shares or competitive 16 Table of Contents position, due to economic or other forces, that may cause them to reduce their purchases from us or, in some cases, result in the termination of their relationship with us. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, or the loss of major customers, would materially harm our business. If we are not able to timely replace expired, canceled or reduced contracts with new business, our revenues and profitability could be harmed. Our components business is dependent on our ability to quickly launch world-class components products, and our investment in the development of our component capabilities, together with the start-up and integration costs necessary to achieve quick launches of world-class components products, may adversely affect our margins and profitability. Our components business, which includes rigid and flexible printed circuit board fabrication, and power supplies manufacturing, is part of our strategy to improve our competitive position and to grow our future margins, profitability and shareholder returns by expanding our capabilities. The success of our components business is dependent on our ability to design and introduce world-class components that have performance characteristics which are suitable for a broad market and that offer significant price and/or performance advantages over competitive products. To create these world class components offerings, we must continue to make substantial investments in the development of our components capabilities, in resources such as research and development, technology licensing, test and tooling equipment, facility expansions and personnel requirements. We may not be able to achieve or maintain market acceptance for any of our components offerings in any of our current or target markets. The success of our components business will also depend upon the level of market acceptance of our customers' end products, which incorporate our components, and over which we have no control. In addition, OEMs often require unique configurations or custom designs which must be developed and integrated in the OEM's product well before the product is launched by the OEM. Thus, there is often substantial lead time between the commencement of design efforts for a customized component and the commencement of volume shipments of the component to the OEM. As a result, we may make substantial investments in the development and customization of products for our customers, and no revenue may be generated from these efforts if our customers do not accept the customized component. Even if our customers accept the customized component, if our customers do not purchase anticipated levels of products, we may not realize any profits. Our achievement of anticipated levels of profitability in our components business is also dependent on our ability to achieve efficiencies in our manufacturing as well as to manufacture components in commercial quantities to the performance specifications demanded by our OEM customers. As a result of these and other risks, we have been, and in the future may be, unable to achieve anticipated levels of profitability in our components business. Our exposure to financially troubled customers or suppliers may adversely affect our financial results. We provide manufacturing services to companies and industries that have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial difficulty. If our customers experience financial difficulty, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed to us from these customers, or demand for our products from these customers could decline. Additionally, if our suppliers experience financial difficulty we could have difficulty sourcing supply necessary to fulfil production requirements and meet scheduled shipments. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us on a timely basis, or at all, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Such adverse effects could include one or more of the following: an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, a charge for inventory write-offs, a reduction in revenue, and an 17 Table of Contents increase in our working capital requirements due to higher inventory levels and increases in days our accounts receivable are outstanding. We may be adversely affected by shortages of required electronic components. From time to time, we have experienced shortages of some of the electronic components that we use. These shortages can result from strong demand for those components or from problems experienced by suppliers, such as shortages of raw materials. These unanticipated component shortages could result in curtailed production or delays in production, which may prevent us from making scheduled shipments to customers. Our inability to make scheduled shipments could cause us to experience a reduction in sales, increase in inventory levels and costs, and could adversely affect relationships with existing and prospective customers. Component shortages may also increase our cost of goods sold because we may be required to pay higher prices for components in short supply and redesign or reconfigure products to accommodate substitute components. As a result, component shortages could adversely affect our operating results. Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to incorporate changes in component costs into the selling prices for our products. Our supply chain may also be impacted by other events outside our control, including macro-economic events, political crises or natural or environmental occurrences. Component shortages impacted our results during the second half of fiscal year 2010, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 and during fiscal year 2012. The supply constraints were broad based, but the impact was most evident with respect to connectors, capacitors, LCD panels and memory (both DRAM and Flash). These shortages began to abate during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, and supplies had normalized by the end of the third quarter. In addition, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan resulted in disruptions to our supply chain, as a large number of our suppliers of semiconductors and other electronic components are located in Japan. These disruptions had a negative impact on our revenue in the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2012. We also continue to evaluate the extent of the disruption to our supply chain and the impact on our business caused by the flooding in Thailand during the second half of 2011, which had a negative impact on our revenue in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, as a number of our suppliers of hard disk drives and other electronic components maintain facilities in Thailand. Our margins and profitability may be adversely affected due to substantial investments, start-up and production ramping costs in our design services. As part of our strategy to enhance our end-to-end service offerings, we have expanded and continue to expand our design and engineering capabilities. Providing these services can expose us to different or greater potential risks than those we face when providing our manufacturing services. Although we enter into contracts with our design services customers, we may design and develop products for these customers prior to receiving a purchase order or other firm commitment from them. We are required to make substantial investments in the resources necessary to design and develop these products, and no revenue may be generated from these efforts if our customers do not approve the designs in a timely manner or at all. Even if our customers accept our designs, if they do not then purchase anticipated levels of products, we may not realize any profits. Our design activities often require that we purchase inventory for initial production runs before we have a purchase commitment from a customer. Even after we have a contract with a customer with respect to a product, these contracts may allow the customer to delay or cancel deliveries and may not obligate the customer to any particular volume of purchases. These contracts can generally be terminated on short notice. In addition, some of the products we design and develop must satisfy safety and regulatory standards and some must receive government certifications. If we fail to obtain these approvals or certifications on a timely basis, we would be unable to sell these products, which would harm our sales, profitability and reputation. 18 Table of Contents Due to the increased risks associated with our design services offerings, we may not be able to achieve a high enough level of sales for this business, and the significant investments in research and development, technology licensing, test and tooling equipment, patent applications, facility expansion and recruitment that it requires, to be profitable. The initial costs of investing in the resources necessary to expand our design and engineering capabilities, and in particular to support our design services offerings, have historically adversely affected our profitability, and may continue to do so as we continue to make investments in these capabilities. In addition, we agree to certain product price limitations and cost reduction targets in connection with these services. Inflationary and other increases in the costs of the raw materials and labor required to produce the products have occurred and may recur from time to time. Also, the production ramps for these programs are typically significant and negatively impact our margin in early stages as the manufacturing volumes are lower and result in inefficiencies and unabsorbed manufacturing overhead costs. We may not be able to reduce costs, incorporate changes in costs into the selling prices of our products, or increase operating efficiencies as we ramp production of our products, which would adversely affect our margins and our results of operations. We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes for medical devices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a medical device manufacturer, we have additional compliance requirements. We are required to register with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulation ("QSR") requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections and product field monitoring by the FDA. If any FDA inspection reveals noncompliance with QSR or other FDA regulations, and the Company does not address the observation adequately to the satisfaction of the FDA, the FDA may take action against us. FDA actions may include issuing a letter of inspectional observations, issuing a warning letter, imposing fines, bringing an action against the Company and its officers, requiring a recall of the products we manufactured for our customers, refusing requests for clearance or approval of new products or withdrawal of clearance or approval previously granted, issuing an import detention on products entering the U.S. from an offshore facility, or shutting down a manufacturing facility. If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm our reputation and cause our business to suffer. In the European Union ("EU"), we are required to maintain certain standardized certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections to obtain and maintain these certifications. Continued noncompliance to the EU regulations could stop the flow of products into the EU from us or from our customers. In China, the Safe Food and Drug Administration controls and regulates the manufacture and commerce of healthcare products. We must comply with the regulatory laws applicable to medical device manufactures or our ability to manufacture products in China could be impacted. In Japan, the Pharmaceutical Affairs Laws regulate the manufacture and commerce of healthcare products. These regulations also require that subcontractors manufacturing products intended for sale in Japan register with authorities and submit to regulatory audits. Other Asian countries where we operate have similar laws regarding the regulation of medical device manufacturing. We conduct operations in a number of countries and are subject to risks of international operations. The distances between the Americas, Asia and Europe create a number of logistical and communications challenges for us. These challenges include managing operations across multiple time zones, directing the manufacture and delivery of products across distances, coordinating procurement of 19 Table of Contents components and raw materials and their delivery to multiple locations, and coordinating the activities and decisions of the core management team, which is based in a number of different countries. Facilities in several different locations may be involved at different stages of the production of a single product, leading to additional logistical difficulties. Because our manufacturing operations are located in a number of countries throughout the Americas, Asia and Europe, we are subject to the risks of changes in economic and political conditions in those countries, including: •fluctuations in the value of local currencies; •labor unrest, difficulties in staffing and geographic labor shortages; •longer payment cycles; •cultural differences; •increases in duties and taxation levied on our products; •imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; •limitations on imports or exports of components or assembled products, or other travel restrictions; •expropriation of private enterprises; •exposure to infectious disease and epidemics; and •a potential reversal of current favorable policies encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries. The attractiveness of our services to U.S. customers can be affected by changes in U.S. trade policies, such as most favored nation status and trade preferences for some Asian countries. In addition, some countries in which we operate, such as Brazil, Hungary, India, Mexico, Malaysia and Poland, have experienced periods of slow or negative growth, high inflation, significant currency devaluations or limited availability of foreign exchange. Furthermore, in countries such as China and Mexico, governmental authorities exercise significant influence over many aspects of the economy, and their actions could have a significant effect on us. We could be seriously harmed by inadequate infrastructure, including lack of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials and parts in countries in which we operate. In addition, we may encounter labor disruptions and rising labor costs, in particular within the lower-cost regions in which we operate. Any increase in labor costs that we are unable to recover in our pricing to our customers could adversely impact our operating results. Operations in foreign countries also present risks associated with currency exchange and convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings. In some countries, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert our cash distributions to U.S. dollars or other freely convertible currencies, or to move funds from our accounts in these countries. Furthermore, the central bank of any of these countries may have the authority to suspend, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on foreign exchange transactions or to approve distributions to foreign investors. Another significant legal risk resulting from our international operations is compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar local laws of the countries in which we do business, including the UK Anti-Bribery Act, which prohibits covered companies from making payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business. Our Code of Business Conduct prohibits corrupt payments on a global basis and precludes us from offering or giving anything of value to a government official for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, to win a business advantage 20 Table of Contents or to improperly influence a decision regarding Flextronics. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that all of our employees and agents will refrain from taking actions in violation of this and our related anti-corruption policies and procedures. Any such violation could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our security systems and governance policies are breached, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure. We have implemented security systems and governance policies with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and inventory and protecting our customers' and our suppliers' confidential information. Despite such efforts, we are subject to, and at times have suffered from, breach of these security systems and governance policies which have in the past and may in the future result in unauthorized access to our facilities and/or unauthorized use or theft of the inventory or information we are trying to protect. If unauthorized parties gain physical access to our inventory or if they gain electronic access to our information systems or if such information or inventory is used in an unauthorized manner, misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission or transport, any theft or misuse of such information or inventory could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties including our customers and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information or inventory, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. We believe that we have adopted appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from the breach of our security systems. Compliance with government regulations regarding the use of "conflict minerals" may result in increased costs and risks to us. As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has promulgated disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, known as conflict minerals. The disclosure rules will take effect for the Company in May 2014. We may have to publicly disclose whether the products we sell contain conflict minerals and could incur significant costs related to implementing a process that will meet the mandates of the Act. Additionally, customers rely on us to provide critical data regarding the products they purchase and will likely request conflict mineral information. Our materials sourcing is broad-based and multi-tiered, and we may not be able to easily verify the origins of the minerals used in the products we sell. We have many suppliers and each may provide conflict mineral information in a different manner, if at all. Accordingly, because the supply chain is complex, our reputation may suffer if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of conflict minerals, if any, used in its products. Additionally, customers may demand that the products they purchase be free of conflict minerals. The implementation of this requirement could affect the sourcing and availability of products we purchase from our suppliers. This may reduce the number of suppliers that may be able to provide conflict free products and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand or at competitive prices. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes. The Company is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. The Company's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory rates and changes in tax laws or their interpretation including changes related to tax holidays or tax incentives. Our taxes could increase if certain tax holidays or incentives are not renewed upon expiration, or if tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased. For example, on March 16, 2007, the Chinese government passed a new unified enterprise income tax law which became effective on January 1, 2008. Among other things, the new law canceled many income tax incentives previously 21 Table of Contents applicable to our subsidiaries in China. Under the new law, the tax rates applicable to the operations of most of our subsidiaries in China have been increased to 25%. The new law provided a transition rule which increased the tax rate to 25% over a 5-year period, which ended in 2012. The new law also increased the standard withholding rate on earnings distributions to between 5% and 10% depending on the residence of the shareholder. The ultimate effect of these and other changes in Chinese tax laws on our overall tax rate will be affected by, among other things, our China income, the manner in which China interprets, implements and applies the new tax provisions, and our ability to qualify for any exceptions or new incentives. Similarly, we recently renewed a Malaysian tax holiday that expired on January 31, 2012 for another ten year period. Our continued ability to qualify for specific tax holiday extensions will depend on, among other things, our anticipated investment and expansion in these countries and the manner in which the local governments interpret the requirements for extensions or new incentives. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are regularly subject to tax return audits and examinations by various taxing jurisdictions around the world. In determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from tax examinations. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of the resolution of a tax examination, we believe that our reserves for uncertain tax benefits reflect the outcome of tax positions that are more likely than not to occur. However, we cannot assure you that the final determination of any tax examinations will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of a current or future examination, there could be a material adverse effect on our tax provision, operating results, financial position and cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. If our products or components contain defects, demand for our services may decline and we may be exposed to product liability and product warranty liability. Defects in the products we manufacture or design, whether caused by a design, engineering, manufacturing or component failure or deficiencies in our manufacturing processes, could result in product or component failures, which may damage our business reputation and expose us to product liability or product warranty claims. Product liability claims may include liability for personal injury or property damage. Product warranty claims may include liability to pay for the recall, repair or replacement of a product or component. Although we generally allocate liability for these claims in our contracts with our customers, increasingly we are unsuccessful in allocating such liability, and even where we have allocated liability to our customers, our customers may not have the resources to satisfy claims for costs or liabilities arising from a defective product or component for which they have assumed responsibility. If we design, engineer or manufacture a product or component that is found to cause any personal injury or property damage or is otherwise found to be defective, we could spend a significant amount of money to resolve the claim. In addition, product liability and product recall insurance coverage are expensive and may not be available with respect to all of our services offerings on acceptable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product liability or product warranty claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied, limited or is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents If we do not effectively manage changes in our operations, our business may be harmed; we have taken substantial restructuring charges in the past and we may need to take material restructuring charges in the future. In recent years, we have experienced growth in our business through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions. However, our business also has been negatively impacted by the recent adverse global economic conditions. The expansion of our business, as well as business contractions and other changes in our customers' requirements, have in the past, and may in the future, require that we adjust our business and cost structures by incurring restructuring charges. Restructuring activities involve reductions in our workforce at some locations and closure of certain facilities. All of these changes have in the past placed, and may in the future place, considerable strain on our management control systems and resources, including decision support, accounting management, information systems and facilities. If we do not properly manage our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to manage our employees, our business could be harmed. In recent years, including during fiscal 2013, we undertook initiatives to restructure our business operations through a series of restructuring activities, which were intended to realign our global capacity and infrastructure with demand by our OEM customers and thereby improve our operational efficiency. These activities included reducing excess workforce and capacity, transitioning manufacturing to lower-cost locations and eliminating redundant facilities, and consolidating and eliminating certain administrative facilities. While we incur severance, asset impairment charges and other facilities charges as a result of changes in our customer mix on an ongoing basis, such individual actions were not considered material to be separately disclosed as restructuring charges in fiscal year 2012 and 2011, and are included in either cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses, as appropriate. Our restructuring activities undertaken during fiscal 2013 have been disclosed separately on our statement of operations due to the significant nature of such activities. We may be required to take additional charges in the future to align our operations and cost structures with global economic conditions, market demands, cost competitiveness, and our geographic footprint as it relates to our customers' production requirements. We may consolidate certain manufacturing facilities or transfer certain of our operations to lower cost geographies. If we are required to take additional restructuring charges in the future, our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Additionally, there are other potential risks associated with our restructurings that could adversely affect us, such as delays encountered with the finalization and implementation of the restructuring activities, work stoppages, and the failure to achieve targeted cost savings. The success of certain of our activities depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business. We retain certain intellectual property rights to some of the technologies that we develop as part of our engineering, design and manufacturing services and components offerings. The measures we have taken to prevent unauthorized use of our technology may not be successful. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, this could reduce or eliminate the competitive advantages of our proprietary technology, which would harm our business. Our engineering, design and manufacturing services and components offerings involve the creation and use of intellectual property rights, which subject us to the risk of claims of intellectual property infringement from third parties, as well as claims arising from the allocation of intellectual property rights among us and our customers. In addition, our customers are increasingly requiring us to indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or our customers for such infringement, whether or not these have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of such claims. In the event of such an infringement claim, we 23 Table of Contents may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such alternatives or obtaining such licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could increase our operating costs. Our manufacturing operations and industrial parks are located in lower cost regions of the world, such as Asia, Eastern Europe and Mexico; however, most of our purchase and sale transactions are denominated in United States dollars, Japanese yen or Euros. As a result, we are exposed to fluctuations in the functional currencies of our fixed cost overhead or our supply base relative to the currencies in which we conduct transactions. Currency exchange rates fluctuate on a daily basis as a result of a number of factors, including changes in a country's political and economic policies. Volatility in the functional and non-functional currencies of our entities and the United States dollar could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The primary impact of currency exchange fluctuations is on the cash, receivables, and payables of our operating entities. As part of our currency hedging strategy, we use financial instruments, primarily forward exchange and swap contracts, to hedge our United States dollar and other currency commitments in order to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on current assets and liabilities. If our hedging activities are not successful or if we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. We are also exposed to risks related to the valuation of the Chinese currency relative to other foreign currencies. The Chinese currency is the renminbi ("RMB"). A significant increase in the value of the RMB could adversely affect our financial results and cash flows by increasing both our manufacturing costs and the costs of our local supply base. We depend on our executive officers and skilled management personnel. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive officers. Generally our employees are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements, and we cannot assure you that we will retain our executive officers and other key employees. We could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees. We will need to recruit and retain skilled management personnel, and if we are not able to do so, our business could be harmed. In addition, in connection with expanding our design services offerings, we must attract and retain experienced design engineers. There is substantial competition in our industry for highly skilled employees. Our failure to recruit and retain experienced design engineers could limit the growth of our design services offerings, which could adversely affect our business. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could adversely affect our business. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including regulations governing the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances used in our manufacturing processes. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the recyclability of products, the materials that may be included in products, and our obligations to dispose of these products after end users have finished with them. Additionally, we may be exposed to liability to our customers relating to the materials that may be included in the components that we procure for our customers' products. Any violation or alleged violation by us of environmental laws could subject us to significant costs, fines or other penalties. We are also required to comply with an increasing number of global and local product environmental compliance regulations focused on the restriction of certain hazardous substances. We are subject to the EU directives, including the Restrictions on RoHS, the WEEE as well as the EU's 24 Table of Contents REACH regulation. In addition, new technical classifications of e-Waste being discussed in the Basel Convention technical working group could affect both our customers abilities and obligations in electronics repair and refurbishment. Also of note is China's Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by EIPs regulation, commonly referred to as "China RoHS", which restricts the importation into and production within China of electrical equipment containing certain hazardous materials. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States. RoHS and other similar legislation bans or restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other specified substances in electronics products and WEEE requires EU importers and/or producers to assume responsibility for the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. We have developed rigorous risk mitigating compliance programs designed to meet the needs of our customers as well as applicable regulations. These programs may include collecting compliance data from our suppliers, full laboratory testing and public reporting of other environmental metrics such as carbon emissions, electronic waste and water, and we also require our supply chain to comply. Non-compliance could potentially result in significant costs and/or penalties. In the case of WEEE, the compliance responsibility rests primarily with the EU importers and/or producers rather than with EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their obligations under WEEE. In addition, we are responsible for cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing facilities and at some third party sites. If more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or regulations are imposed, or the results of future testing and analyses at our current or former operating facilities indicate that we are responsible for the release of hazardous substances into the air, ground and/or water, we may be subject to additional liability. Additional environmental matters may arise in the future at sites where no problem is currently known or at sites that we may acquire in the future. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations or adequately address contaminated sites could limit our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to incur significant expenses, which would harm our business. We may encounter difficulties with acquisitions, which could harm our business. We have completed numerous acquisitions of businesses and we may acquire additional businesses in the future. Any future acquisitions may require additional equity financing, which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders, or additional debt financing, which could increase our leverage and potentially affect our credit ratings. Any downgrades in our credit ratings associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow by resulting in more restrictive borrowing terms. As a result of the foregoing, we also may not be able to complete acquisitions or strategic customer transactions in the future to the same extent as in the past, or at all. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our management information systems, operating systems and internal controls, and assimilate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. The difficulties of this integration may be further complicated by geographic distances. The integration of acquired businesses may not be successful and could result in disruption to other parts of our business. In addition, the integration of acquired businesses may require that we incur significant restructuring charges. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including: •diversion of management's attention from the normal operation of our business; •potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; •difficulties managing and integrating operations in geographically dispersed locations; •the potential for deficiencies in internal controls at acquired companies; 25 Table of Contents •increases in our expenses and working capital requirements, which reduce our return on invested capital; •lack of experience operating in the geographic market or industry sector of the acquired business; and •exposure to unanticipated liabilities of acquired companies. These and other factors have harmed, and in the future could harm, our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition, and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our strategic relationships with major customers create risks. In the past, we have completed numerous strategic transactions with OEM customers. Under these arrangements, we generally acquire inventory, equipment and other assets from the OEM, and lease or acquire their manufacturing facilities, while simultaneously entering into multi-year manufacturing and supply agreements for the production of their products. We may pursue these OEM divestiture transactions in the future. These arrangements entered into with divesting OEMs typically involve many risks, including the following: •we may need to pay a purchase price to the divesting OEMs that exceeds the value we ultimately may realize from the future business of the OEM; •the integration of the acquired assets and facilities into our business may be time-consuming and costly, including the incurrence of restructuring charges; •we, rather than the divesting OEM, bear the risk of excess capacity at the facility; •we may not achieve anticipated cost reductions and efficiencies at the facility; •we may be unable to meet the expectations of the OEM as to volume, product quality, timeliness and cost reductions; •our supply agreements with the OEMs generally do not require any minimum volumes of purchase by the OEMs, and the actual volume of purchases may be less than anticipated; and •if demand for the OEMs' products declines, the OEM may reduce its volume of purchases, and we may not be able to sufficiently reduce the expenses of operating the facility or use the facility to provide services to other OEMs. As a result of these and other risks, we have been, and in the future may be, unable to achieve anticipated levels of profitability under these arrangements. In addition, these strategic arrangements have not, and in the future may not, result in any material revenues or contribute positively to our earnings per share. Our business and operations could be adversely impacted by climate change initiatives. Concern over climate change has led to international legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. Proposed and existing efforts to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions could directly or indirectly affect our costs of energy, materials, manufacturing, distribution, packaging and other operating costs, which could impact our business and financial results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to seasonal demand. Two of our significant end markets are the mobile devices market and the consumer devices market. These markets exhibit particular strength in the two quarters leading up to the end of the 26 Table of Contents calendar year in connection with the holiday season. As a result, we have historically experienced stronger revenues in our second and third fiscal quarters as compared to our other fiscal quarters. Economic or other factors leading to diminished orders in the end of the calendar year could harm our business. Our debt level may create limitations. As of March 31, 2013, our total debt was approximately $2.1 billion. This level of indebtedness could limit our flexibility as a result of debt service requirements and restrictive covenants, and may limit our ability to access additional capital or execute our business strategy. Changes in our credit rating may make it more expensive for us to raise additional capital or to borrow additional funds. Our credit is rated by credit rating agencies. Our 4.625% Notes and our 5.000% Notes are currently rated BB+ by Standard and Poor's ("S&P") and Ba1 by Moody's, and are considered to be below "investment grade" debt by Moody's and S&P. Any further decline in our credit rating may make it more expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all; negatively impact the price of our common stock; increase our interest payments under some of our existing debt agreements; and have other negative implications on our business, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the interest rate payable on some of our credit facilities is subject to adjustment from time to time if our credit ratings change. Thus, any potential future negative change in our credit rating may increase the interest rate payable on these credit facilities. Weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and access to capital markets. Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which our customers compete. Recent adverse worldwide economic conditions, including the European sovereign debt crisis, have created challenging conditions in the electronics industry. These conditions have resulted in reduced consumer and business confidence and spending in many countries, a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and high volatility in credit, fixed income and equity markets. A continuation or worsening of the European sovereign debt crisis will likely have a negative effect on certain of our European customers and suppliers, which could harm our business. In addition, longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. If financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes. The market price of our ordinary shares is volatile. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of companies, including technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. The market for our ordinary shares has been and may in the future be subject to similar volatility. Factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, announcements of technological innovations or events affecting other companies in the electronics industry, currency fluctuations, general market fluctuations, and macro-economic conditions may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. 27 Table of Contents The Company's goodwill and identifiable intangible assets could become impaired, which could reduce the value of its assets and reduce its net income in the year in which the write-off occurs. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the assets acquired. The Company also ascribes value to certain identifiable intangible assets, which consist primarily of customer relationships and trade names, among others, as a result of acquisitions. The Company may incur impairment charges on goodwill or identifiable intangible assets if it determines that the fair values of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are less than their current carrying values. The Company evaluates, on a regular basis, whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate all, or a portion, of the carrying amount of goodwill may no longer be recoverable, in which case an impairment charge to earnings would become necessary. Refer to Notes 1 and 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements and 'critical accounting policies' in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion of the impairment testing of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. A decline in general economic conditions or global equity valuations could impact the judgments and assumptions about the fair value of the Company's businesses and the Company could be required to record impairment charges on its goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets in the future, which could impact the Company's consolidated balance sheet, as well as the Company's consolidated statement of operations. If the Company was required to recognize an impairment charge in the future, the charge would not impact the Company's consolidated cash flows, current liquidity, capital resources, and covenants under its existing credit facilities, asset securitization program, and other outstanding borrowings. Failure to comply with domestic or international employment and related laws could result in the payment of significant damages, which would reduce our net income. We are subject to a variety of domestic and foreign employment laws, including those related to safety, wages and overtime, discrimination, whistle-blowing, classification of employees and severance payments. Enforcement activity relating to these laws, particularly outside of the United States, can increase as a result of increased media attention due to violations by other companies, changes in law, political and other factors. There can be no assurance that we won't be found to have violated such laws in the future, due to a more aggressive enforcement posture by governmental authorities or for any other reason. Any such violations could lead to the assessment of fines against us by federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities or damages payable to employees, which fines could be substantial and which would reduce our net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 