ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We depend on industries that continually produce technologically advanced products with short life cycles and our business would be adversely affected if our customers' products are not successful or if our customers lose market share. We derive our revenues from customers in the following markets: •High Reliability Solutions (HRS), which is comprised of our medical, automotive, defense and aerospace businesses; •High Velocity Solutions (HVS), which includes our mobile/smart phone business, consumer electronics including game consoles and printers, enterprise PC business, and our ODM personal computing business which we exited in the third quarter of fiscal 2012; •Industrial and Emerging Industries (IEI), which is comprised of our industrial, semiconductor capital equipment and clean technology businesses; and •Integrated Network Solutions (INS), which includes our telecommunications infrastructure, data networking, connected home, and server and storage businesses. Factors affecting any of these industries in general or our customers in particular, could adversely impact us. These factors include: •rapid changes in technology, evolving industry standards and requirements for continuous improvement in products and services result in short product life cycles; •demand for our customers' products may be seasonal; •our customers may fail to successfully market their products, and our customers' products may fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance; •our customers may experience dramatic market share shifts in demand which may cause them to exit the business; and •there may be recessionary periods in our customers' markets, such as the recent global economic downturn. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or locations, or delay production, and the inherent difficulties involved in responding to these demands could harm our business. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers have harmed, and may continue to harm, our results of operations by reducing the volumes of products we manufacture and deliver for these customers, by causing a delay in the repayment of our expenditures for inventory in preparation for customer orders and by lowering our asset utilization resulting in lower gross margins. Additionally, current and prospective customers continuously evaluate our capabilities against other providers as well as against the merits of manufacturing products themselves. Our business would be adversely affected if OEMs decide to perform these functions internally or transfer their business to another provider. 15 Table of Contents As a provider of electronics design and manufacturing services and components, we must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround time for our customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and we often experience reduced lead times in customer orders which may be less than the lead time we require to procure necessary components and materials. The short-term nature of our customers' commitments and the rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of our customers. This makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity. In that regard, we must make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, setting production schedules, making component procurement commitments, and allocating personnel and other resources, based on our estimates of our customers' requirements. On occasion, customers require rapid increases in production or require that manufacturing of their products be transitioned from one facility to another to reduce costs or achieve other objectives. These demands stress our resources and reduce our margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers' demands, and transfers from one facility to another can result in inefficiencies and costs due to excess capacity in one facility and corresponding capacity constraints at another. Due to many of our costs and operating expenses being relatively fixed, customer order fluctuations, deferrals and transfers of demand from one facility to another, as described above, have had a material adverse effect on our operating results in the past and we may experience such effects in the future. Our industry is extremely competitive; if we are not able to continue to provide competitive services, we may lose business. We compete with a number of different companies, depending on the type of service we provide or the location of our operations. For example, we compete with major global EMS providers, other smaller EMS companies that have a regional or product-specific focus, and ODMs with respect to some of the services that we provide. We also compete with our current and prospective customers, who evaluate our capabilities in light of their own capabilities and cost structures. Our industry is extremely competitive, many of our competitors have achieved substantial market share, and some may have lower cost structures or greater design, manufacturing, financial or other resources than we do. We face particular competition from Asian-based competitors, including Taiwanese ODM suppliers who compete in a variety of our end markets and have a substantial share of global information technology hardware production. If we are unable to provide comparable manufacturing services and improved products at lower cost than the other companies in our market, our net sales could decline. The majority of our sales come from a small number of customers and a decline in sales to any of these customers could adversely affect our business. Sales to our ten largest customers represent a significant percentage of our net sales. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 55%, 52% and 47% of net sales in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our largest customers during fiscal 2012 were Hewlett-Packard (HP) and Research In Motion (RIM), which each accounted for more than 10% of net sales. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal year 2012. Our largest customer during fiscal year 2011 was Research In Motion, and our largest customer during fiscal year 2010 was Hewlett-Packard, each of which accounted for more than 10% of net sales in the respective fiscal year. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal years 2011 or 2010. Our principal customers have varied from year to year. These customers may experience dramatic declines in their market shares or competitive position, due to economic or other forces, that may cause them to reduce their purchases from us or, in some cases, result in the termination of their relationship with us. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, or the loss of major customers, would 16 Table of Contents materially harm our business. If we are not able to timely replace expired, canceled or reduced contracts with new business, our revenues and profitability could be harmed. Our components business is dependent on our ability to quickly launch world-class components products, and our investment in the development of our component capabilities, together with the start-up and integration costs necessary to achieve quick launches of world-class components products, may adversely affect our margins and profitability. Our components business, which includes rigid and flexible printed circuit board fabrication, power supplies and display and touch design manufacturing, is part of our strategy to improve our competitive position and to grow our future margins, profitability and shareholder returns by expanding our vertical-integration capabilities. The success of our components business is dependent on our ability to design and introduce world-class components that have performance characteristics which are suitable for a broad market and that offer significant price and/or performance advantages over competitive products. To create these world class components offerings, we must continue to make substantial investments in the development of our components capabilities, in resources such as research and development, technology licensing, test and tooling equipment, facility expansions and personnel requirements. We may not be able to achieve or maintain market acceptance for any of our components offerings in any of our current or target markets. The success of our components business will also depend upon the level of market acceptance of our customers' end products, which incorporate our components, and over which we have no control. In addition, OEMs often require unique configurations or custom designs which must be developed and integrated in the OEM's product well before the product is launched by the OEM. Thus, there is often substantial lead time between the commencement of design efforts for a customized component and the commencement of volume shipments of the component to the OEM. As a result, we may make substantial investments in the development and customization of products for our customers, and no revenue may be generated from these efforts if our customers do not accept the customized component. Even if our customers accept the customized component, if our customers do not purchase anticipated levels of products, we may not realize any profits. Our achievement of anticipated levels of profitability in our components business is also dependent on our ability to achieve efficiencies in our manufacturing as well as to manufacture components in commercial quantities to the performance specifications demanded by our OEM customers. As a result of these and other risks, we have been, and in the future may be, unable to achieve anticipated levels of profitability in our components business. Our exposure to financially troubled customers or suppliers may adversely affect our financial results. We provide manufacturing services to companies and industries that have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial difficulty. If our customers experience financial difficulty, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed to us from these customers, or demand for our products from these customers could decline. Additionally, if our suppliers experience financial difficulty we could have difficulty sourcing supply necessary to fulfil production requirements and meet scheduled shipments. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us on a timely basis, or at all, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Such adverse effects could include one or more of the following: an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, a charge for inventory write-offs, a reduction in revenue, and an increase in our working capital requirements due to higher inventory levels and increases in days our accounts receivable are outstanding. 17 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by shortages of required electronic components. From time to time, we have experienced shortages of some of the electronic components that we use. These shortages can result from strong demand for those components or from problems experienced by suppliers, such as shortages of raw materials. These unanticipated component shortages could result in curtailed production or delays in production, which may prevent us from making scheduled shipments to customers. Our inability to make scheduled shipments could cause us to experience a reduction in sales, increase in inventory levels and costs, and could adversely affect relationships with existing and prospective customers. Component shortages may also increase our cost of goods sold because we may be required to pay higher prices for components in short supply and redesign or reconfigure products to accommodate substitute components. As a result, component shortages could adversely affect our operating results. Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to incorporate changes in component costs into the selling prices for our products. Our supply chain may also be impacted by other events outside our control, including macroeconomic events, political crises or natural or environmental occurrences. Component shortages impacted our results during the second half of fiscal year 2010, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 and during fiscal 2012. The supply constraints were broad based, but the impact was most evident with respect to connectors, capacitors, LCD panels and memory (both DRAM and Flash). These shortages began to abate during the second quarter of fiscal 2011, and supplies had normalized by the end of the third quarter. In addition, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan resulted in disruptions to our supply chain, as a large number of our suppliers of semiconductors and other electronic components are located in Japan. These disruptions had a negative impact on our revenue in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2012. We also continue to evaluate the extent of the disruption to our supply chain and the impact on our business caused by the flooding in Thailand during the second half of 2011, which had a negative impact on our revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as a number of our suppliers of hard disk drives and other electronic components maintain facilities in Thailand. Our margins and profitability may be adversely affected due to substantial investments, start-up and production ramping costs in our design services. As part of our strategy to enhance our vertically-integrated, end-to-end service offerings, we have expanded and continue to expand our design and engineering capabilities. Providing these services can expose us to different or greater potential risks than those we face when providing our manufacturing services. Although we enter into contracts with our design services customers, we may design and develop products for these customers prior to receiving a purchase order or other firm commitment from them. We are required to make substantial investments in the resources necessary to design and develop these products, and no revenue may be generated from these efforts if our customers do not approve the designs in a timely manner or at all. Even if our customers accept our designs, if they do not then purchase anticipated levels of products, we may not realize any profits. Our design activities often require that we purchase inventory for initial production runs before we have a purchase commitment from a customer. Even after we have a contract with a customer with respect to a product, these contracts may allow the customer to delay or cancel deliveries and may not obligate the customer to any particular volume of purchases. These contracts can generally be terminated on short notice. In addition, some of the products we design and develop must satisfy safety and regulatory standards and some must receive government certifications. If we fail to obtain these approvals or certifications on a timely basis, we would be unable to sell these products, which would harm our sales, profitability and reputation. 18 Table of Contents Due to the increased risks associated with our design services offerings, we may not be able to achieve a high enough level of sales for this business, and the significant investments in research and development, technology licensing, test and tooling equipment, patent applications, facility expansion and recruitment that it requires, to be profitable. The initial costs of investing in the resources necessary to expand our design and engineering capabilities, and in particular to support our design services offerings, have historically adversely affected our profitability, and may continue to do so as we continue to make investments in these capabilities. In addition, we agree to certain product price limitations and cost reduction targets in order to achieve anticipated margins and profitable operations. Inflationary and other increases in the costs of the raw materials and labor required to produce the products have occurred and may recur from time to time. Also, the production ramps for these programs are typically significant and negatively impact our margin in early stages as the manufacturing volumes are lower and result in inefficiencies and unabsorbed manufacturing overhead costs. We may not be able to reduce costs, incorporate changes in costs into the selling prices of our products, or increase operating efficiencies as we ramp production of our products, which would adversely affect our margins and our results of operations. We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes for medical devices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a medical device manufacturer, we have additional compliance requirements. We are required to register with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulation ("QSR") requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections and product field monitoring by the FDA. If any FDA inspection reveals noncompliance with QSR or other FDA regulations, and the Company does not address the observation adequately to the satisfaction of the FDA, the FDA may take action against us. FDA actions may include issuing a letter of inspectional observations, issuing a warning letter, imposing fines, bringing an action against the Company and its officers, requiring a recall of the products we manufactured for our customers, refusing requests for clearance or approval of new products or withdrawal of clearance or approval previously granted, issuing an import detention on products entering the U.S. from an offshore facility, or shutting down a manufacturing facility. If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm our reputation and cause our business to suffer. In the European Union ("EU"), we are required to maintain certain standardized certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections to obtain and maintain these certifications. Continued noncompliance to the EU regulations could stop the flow of products into the EU from us or from our customers. In China, the Safe Food and Drug Administration controls and regulates the manufacture and commerce of healthcare products. We must comply with the regulatory laws applicable to medical device manufactures or our ability to manufacture products in China could be impacted. In Japan, the Pharmaceutical Affairs Laws regulate the manufacture and commerce of healthcare products. These regulations also require that subcontractors manufacturing products intended for sale in Japan register with authorities and submit to regulatory audits. Other Asian countries where we operate have similar laws regarding the regulation of medical device manufacturing. We conduct operations in a number of countries and are subject to risks of international operations. The distances between the Americas, Asia and Europe create a number of logistical and communications challenges for us. These challenges include managing operations across multiple time zones, directing the manufacture and delivery of products across distances, coordinating procurement of 19 Table of Contents components and raw materials and their delivery to multiple locations, and coordinating the activities and decisions of the core management team, which is based in a number of different countries. Facilities in several different locations may be involved at different stages of the production of a single product, leading to additional logistical difficulties. Because our manufacturing operations are located in a number of countries throughout the Americas, Asia and Europe, we are subject to the risks of changes in economic and political conditions in those countries, including: •fluctuations in the value of local currencies; •labor unrest, difficulties in staffing and geographic labor shortages; •longer payment cycles; •cultural differences; •increases in duties and taxation levied on our products; •imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; •limitations on imports or exports of components or assembled products, or other travel restrictions; •expropriation of private enterprises; •exposure to infectious disease and epidemics; and •a potential reversal of current favorable policies encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries. The attractiveness of our services to U.S. customers can be affected by changes in U.S. trade policies, such as most favored nation status and trade preferences for some Asian countries. In addition, some countries in which we operate, such as Brazil, Hungary, India, Mexico, Malaysia and Poland, have experienced periods of slow or negative growth, high inflation, significant currency devaluations or limited availability of foreign exchange. Furthermore, in countries such as China and Mexico, governmental authorities exercise significant influence over many aspects of the economy, and their actions could have a significant effect on us. We could be seriously harmed by inadequate infrastructure, including lack of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials and parts in countries in which we operate. In addition, we may encounter labor disruptions and rising labor costs, in particular within the lower-cost regions in which we operate. Any increase in labor costs that we are unable to recover in our pricing to our customers could adversely impact our operating results. Operations in foreign countries also present risks associated with currency exchange and convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings. In some countries, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert our cash distributions to U.S. dollars or other freely convertible currencies, or to move funds from our accounts in these countries. Furthermore, the central bank of any of these countries may have the authority to suspend, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on foreign exchange transactions or to approve distributions to foreign investors. Another significant legal risk resulting from our international operations is compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar local laws of the countries in which we do business, including the UK Anti-Bribery Act, which prohibits covered companies from making payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business. Our Code of Business Conduct prohibits corrupt payments on a global basis and precludes us from offering or giving anything of value to a government official for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, to win a business advantage 20 Table of Contents or to improperly influence a decision regarding Flextronics. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that all of our employees and agents will refrain from taking actions in violation of this and our related anti-corruption policies and procedures. Any such violation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes. We have structured our operations in a manner designed to maximize income in countries where: •tax incentives have been extended to encourage foreign investment; or •income tax rates are low. A number of countries in which we are located allow for tax holidays or provide other tax incentives to attract and retain business. Our taxes could increase if certain tax holidays or incentives are not renewed upon expiration, or if tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased. For example, on March 16, 2007, the Chinese government passed a new unified enterprise income tax law which became effective on January 1, 2008. Among other things, the new law canceled many income tax incentives previously applicable to our subsidiaries in China. Under the new law, the tax rates applicable to the operations of most of our subsidiaries in China have been increased to 25%. The new law provided a transition rule which increased the tax rate to 25% over a 5-year period, which ends in 2012. The new law also increased the standard withholding rate on earnings distributions to between 5% and 10% depending on the residence of the shareholder. The ultimate effect of these and other changes in Chinese tax laws on our overall tax rate will be affected by, among other things, our China income, the manner in which China interprets, implements and applies the new tax provisions, and our ability to qualify for any exceptions or new incentives. Similarly, we recently renewed a Malaysian tax holiday that expired on January 31, 2012 for another ten year period. Our continued ability to qualify for specific tax holiday extensions will depend on, among other things, our anticipated investment and expansion in these countries and the manner in which the local governments interpret the requirements for extensions or new incentives. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are regularly subject to tax return audits and examinations by various taxing jurisdictions around the world. In determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from tax examinations. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of the resolution of a tax examination, we believe that our reserves for uncertain tax benefits reflect the outcome of tax positions that are more likely than not to occur. However, we cannot assure you that the final determination of any tax examinations will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of a current or future examination, there could be a material adverse effect on our tax provision, operating results, financial position and cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. If our products or components contain defects, demand for our services may decline and we may be exposed to product liability and product warranty liability. Defects in the products we manufacture or design, whether caused by a design, engineering, manufacturing or component failure or deficiencies in our manufacturing processes, could result in product or component failures, which may damage our business reputation and expose us to product liability or product warranty claims. Product liability claims may include liability for personal injury or property damage. Product warranty claims may include liability to pay for the recall, repair or replacement of a product or component. Although we generally allocate liability for these claims in our contracts with our customers, increasingly we are unsuccessful in allocating such liability, and even where we have 21 Table of Contents allocated liability to our customers, our customers may not have the resources to satisfy claims for costs or liabilities arising from a defective product or component for which they have assumed responsibility. If we design, engineer or manufacture a product or component that is found to cause any personal injury or property damage or is otherwise found to be defective, we could spend a significant amount of money to resolve the claim. In addition, product liability and product recall insurance coverage are expensive and may not be available with respect to all of our services offerings on acceptable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product liability or product warranty claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied, limited or is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not effectively manage changes in our operations, our business may be harmed; we have taken substantial restructuring charges in the past and we may need to take material restructuring charges in the future. In recent years, we have experienced growth in our business through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions. However, our business also has been negatively impacted by the recent adverse global economic conditions. The expansion of our business, as well as business contractions and other changes in our customers' requirements, have in the past, and may in the future, require that we adjust our business and cost structures, including by incurring restructuring charges. Restructuring activities involve reductions in our workforce at some locations and closure of certain facilities. All of these changes have in the past placed, and may in the future place, considerable strain on our management control systems and resources, including decision support, accounting management, information systems and facilities. If we do not properly manage our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to manage our employees, our business could be harmed. In recent years, we have undertaken initiatives to restructure our business operations through a series of restructuring activities, which were intended to realign our global capacity and infrastructure with demand by our OEM customers and thereby improve our operational efficiency. These activities included reducing excess workforce and capacity, transitioning manufacturing to lower-cost locations and eliminating redundant facilities, and consolidating and eliminating certain administrative facilities. While we incur severance, asset impairment charges and other facilities charges as a result of changes in our customer mix on an ongoing basis, such individual actions were not considered material to be separately disclosed as restructuring charges in fiscal 2012 and 2011, and are included in either cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses, as appropriate. We recognized restructuring charges of approximately $107.5 million in fiscal 2010. We may be required to take additional charges in the future to align our operations and cost structures with global economic conditions, market demands, cost competitiveness, and our geographic footprint as it relates to our customers' production requirements. We may consolidate certain manufacturing facilities or transfer certain of our operations to lower cost geographies. If we are required to take additional restructuring charges in the future, our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Additionally, there are other potential risks associated with our restructurings that could adversely affect us, such as delays encountered with the finalization and implementation of the restructuring activities, work stoppages, and the failure to achieve targeted cost savings. The success of certain of our activities depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business. We retain certain intellectual property rights to some of the technologies that we develop as part of our engineering, design and manufacturing services and components offerings. The measures we have taken to prevent unauthorized use of our technology may not be successful. If we are unable to 22 Table of Contents protect our intellectual property rights, this could reduce or eliminate the competitive advantages of our proprietary technology, which would harm our business. Our engineering, design and manufacturing services and components offerings involve the creation and use of intellectual property rights, which subject us to the risk of claims of intellectual property infringement from third parties, as well as claims arising from the allocation of intellectual property rights among us and our customers. In addition, our customers are increasingly requiring us to indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or our customers for such infringement, whether or not these have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of such claims. In the event of such an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such alternatives or obtaining such licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could increase our operating costs. Our manufacturing operations and industrial parks are located in lower cost regions of the world, such as Asia, Eastern Europe and Mexico; however, most of our purchase and sale transactions are denominated in United States dollars, Japanese yen or Euros. As a result, we are exposed to fluctuations in the functional currencies of our fixed cost overhead or our supply base relative to the currencies in which we conduct transactions. Currency exchange rates fluctuate on a daily basis as a result of a number of factors, including changes in a country's political and economic policies. Volatility in the functional and non-functional currencies of our entities and the United States dollar could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The primary impact of currency exchange fluctuations is on the cash, receivables, and payables of our operating entities. As part of our currency hedging strategy, we use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase and swap contracts, to hedge our United States dollar and other currency commitments in order to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on current assets and liabilities. If our hedging activities are not successful or if we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. We are also exposed to risks related to the valuation of the Chinese currency relative to other foreign currencies. The Chinese currency is the renminbi ("RMB"). A significant increase in the value of the RMB could adversely affect our financial results and cash flows by increasing both our manufacturing costs and the costs of our local supply base. We depend on our executive officers and skilled management personnel. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive officers. Generally our employees are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements, and we cannot assure you that we will retain our executive officers and other key employees. We could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees. We will need to recruit and retain skilled management personnel, and if we are not able to do so, our business could be harmed. In addition, in connection with expanding our design services offerings, we must attract and retain experienced design engineers. There is substantial competition in our industry for highly skilled employees. Our failure to recruit and retain experienced design engineers could limit the growth of our design services offerings, which could adversely affect our business. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could adversely affect our business. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including regulations governing the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances used in 23 Table of Contents our manufacturing processes. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the recyclability of products, the materials that may be included in products, and our obligations to dispose of these products after end users have finished with them. Additionally, we may be exposed to liability to our customers relating to the materials that may be included in the components that we procure for our customers' products. Any violation or alleged violation by us of environmental laws could subject us to significant costs, fines or other penalties. We are also required to comply with an increasing number of global and local product environmental compliance regulations focused on the restriction of certain hazardous substances. We are subject to the European Union ("EU") directives, including the Restrictions on Hazardous Substances Directive ("RoHS"), the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive ("WEEE") as well as the EU's Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals ("REACH") regulation. Also of note is China's Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products regulation, commonly referred to as "China RoHS", which restricts the importation into and production within China of electrical equipment containing certain hazardous materials. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States. RoHS and other similar legislation bans or restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other specified substances in electronics products and WEEE requires EU importers and/or producers to assume responsibility for the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. We have developed rigorous risk mitigating compliance programs designed to meet the needs of our customers as well as applicable regulations. These programs may include collecting compliance data from our suppliers, full laboratory testing and public reporting of other environmental metrics such as carbon emissions, electronic waste and water, and we also require our supply chain to comply. Non-compliance could potentially result in significant costs and/or penalties. In the case of WEEE, the compliance responsibility rests primarily with the EU importers and/or producers rather than with EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their obligations under WEEE. In addition, we are responsible for cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing facilities and at some third party sites. If more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or regulations are imposed, or the results of future testing and analyses at our current or former operating facilities indicate that we are responsible for the release of hazardous substances into the air, ground and/or water, we may be subject to additional liability. Additional environmental matters may arise in the future at sites where no problem is currently known or at sites that we may acquire in the future. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations or adequately address contaminated sites could limit our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to incur significant expenses, which would harm our business. We may encounter difficulties with acquisitions, which could harm our business. We have completed numerous acquisitions of businesses and we may acquire additional businesses in the future. Any future acquisitions may require additional equity financing, which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders, or additional debt financing, which could increase our leverage and potentially affect our credit ratings. Any downgrades in our credit ratings associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow by resulting in more restrictive borrowing terms. As a result of the foregoing, we also may not be able to complete acquisitions or strategic customer transactions in the future to the same extent as in the past, or at all. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our management information systems, operating systems and internal controls, and assimilate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. The difficulties of this integration may be further complicated by geographic distances. The integration of acquired businesses may not be successful and could result in disruption to other parts of 24 Table of Contents our business. In addition, the integration of acquired businesses may require that we incur significant restructuring charges. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including: •diversion of management's attention from the normal operation of our business; •potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; •difficulties managing and integrating operations in geographically dispersed locations; •the potential for deficiencies in internal controls at acquired companies; •increases in our expenses and working capital requirements, which reduce our return on invested capital; •lack of experience operating in the geographic market or industry sector of the acquired business; and •exposure to unanticipated liabilities of acquired companies. These and other factors have harmed, and in the future could harm, our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition, and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our strategic relationships with major customers create risks. In the past, we have completed numerous strategic transactions with OEM customers. Under these arrangements, we generally acquire inventory, equipment and other assets from the OEM, and lease or acquire their manufacturing facilities, while simultaneously entering into multi-year supply agreements for the production of their products. We may pursue these OEM divestiture transactions in the future. These arrangements entered into with divesting OEMs typically involve many risks, including the following: •we may need to pay a purchase price to the divesting OEMs that exceed the value we ultimately may realize from the future business of the OEM; •the integration of the acquired assets and facilities into our business may be time-consuming and costly, including the incurrence of restructuring charges; •we, rather than the divesting OEM, bear the risk of excess capacity at the facility; •we may not achieve anticipated cost reductions and efficiencies at the facility; •we may be unable to meet the expectations of the OEM as to volume, product quality, timeliness and cost reductions; •our supply agreements with the OEMs generally do not require any minimum volumes of purchase by the OEMs, and the actual volume of purchases may be less than anticipated; and •if demand for the OEMs' products declines, the OEM may reduce its volume of purchases, and we may not be able to sufficiently reduce the expenses of operating the facility or use the facility to provide services to other OEMs. As a result of these and other risks, we have been, and in the future may be, unable to achieve anticipated levels of profitability under these arrangements. In addition, these strategic arrangements have not, and in the future may not, result in any material revenues or contribute positively to our earnings per share. 25 Table of Contents Our business and operations could be adversely impacted by climate change initiatives. Concern over climate change has led to international legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. Proposed and existing efforts to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions could directly or indirectly affect our costs of energy, materials, manufacturing, distribution, packaging and other operating costs, which could impact our business and financial results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to seasonal demand. Two of our significant end markets are the mobile devices market and the consumer devices market. These markets exhibit particular strength toward the end of the calendar year in connection with the holiday season. As a result, we have historically experienced stronger revenues in our third fiscal quarter as compared to our other fiscal quarters. Economic or other factors leading to diminished orders in the end of the calendar year could harm our business. Our debt level may create limitations As of March 31, 2012, our total debt was approximately $2.2 billion. This level of indebtedness could limit our flexibility as a result of debt service requirements and restrictive covenants, and may limit our ability to access additional capital or execute our business strategy. Weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and access to capital markets. Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which our customers compete. Recent adverse worldwide economic conditions, including the European sovereign debt crisis, have created challenging conditions in the electronics industry. These conditions have resulted in reduced consumer and business confidence and spending in many countries, a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and high volatility in credit, fixed income and equity markets. A continuation or worsening of the European sovereign debt crisis will likely have a negative effect on certain of our European customers and suppliers, which could harm our business. In addition, longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. If financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes. The market price of our ordinary shares is volatile. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of companies, including technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. The market for our ordinary shares has been and may in the future be subject to similar volatility. Factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, announcements of technological innovations or events affecting other companies in the electronics industry, currency fluctuations, general market fluctuations, and macro economic conditions may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. 26 Table of Contents If our security systems and governance policies are breached, we may incur significant legal and financial exposure. We have implemented security systems and governance policies with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and protecting our customers' and our suppliers' confidential information. Despite such efforts, we are subject to breach of these security systems and governance policies which may result in unauthorized access to our facilities and/or unauthorized use of the information we are trying to protect. If unauthorized parties gain physical access to one of our facilities or electronic access to our information systems or such information is used in an unauthorized manner, misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission or transport, any theft or misuse of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 