ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our company and our business. PS has significant influence over us. At December 31, 2010, PS and its affiliates owned 23.5% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock and 22.8% of the outstanding common units of the Operating Partnership (100% of the common units not owned by the Company). Assuming issuance of the Company’s common stock upon redemption of its partnership units, PS would own 41.0% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock. In addition, the PS Business Parks name and logo is owned by PS and licensed to the Company under a non-exclusive, royalty-free license agreement. The license can be terminated by either party for any reason with six months written notice. Ronald L. Havner, Jr., the Company’s chairman, is also the Chief Executive Officer, President and a Director of PS. Consequently, PS has the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing directors, changing our articles of incorporation, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions such as mergers, and all matters requiring the consent of the limited partners of the Operating Partnership. PS’s interest in such matters may differ from other shareholders. In addition, PS’s ownership may make it more difficult for another party to take over our company without PS’s approval. Provisions in our organizational documents may prevent changes in control. Our articles generally prohibit any person from owning more than 7% of our shares: Our articles of incorporation restrict the number of shares that may be owned by any other person, and the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership contains an anti-takeover provision. No shareholder (other than PS and certain other specified shareholders) may own more than 7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, unless our board of directors waives this limitation. We imposed this limitation to avoid, to the extent possible, a concentration of ownership that might jeopardize our ability to qualify as a REIT. This limitation, however, also makes a change of control much more difficult (if not impossible) even if it may be favorable to our public shareholders. These provisions will prevent future takeover attempts not supported by PS even if a majority of our public shareholders consider it to be in their best interests as they would receive a premium for their shares over market value or for other reasons. Our board can set the terms of certain securities without shareholder approval: Our board of directors is authorized, without shareholder approval, to issue up to 50.0 million shares of preferred stock and up to 100.0 million shares of equity stock, in each case in one or more series. Our board has the right to set the terms of each of these series of stock. Consequently, the board could set the terms of a series of stock that could make it difficult (if not impossible) for another party to take over our company even if it might be favorable to our public shareholders. Our articles of incorporation also contain other provisions that could have the same effect. We can also cause our Operating Partnership to issue additional interests for cash or in exchange for property. The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership restricts mergers: The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership generally provides that we may not merge or engage in a similar transaction unless the limited partners of our Operating Partnership are entitled to receive the same proportionate payments as our shareholders. In addition, we have agreed not to merge unless the merger would have been approved had the limited partners been able to vote together with our shareholders, which has the effect of increasing PS’s influence over us due to PS’s ownership of operating partnership units. These provisions may make it more difficult for us to merge with another entity. 9 Our Operating Partnership poses additional risks to us. Limited partners of our Operating Partnership, including PS, have the right to vote on certain changes to the partnership agreement. They may vote in a way that is against the interests of our shareholders. Also, as general partner of our Operating Partnership, we are required to protect the interests of the limited partners of the Operating Partnership. The interests of the limited partners and of our shareholders may differ. We would incur adverse tax consequences if we fail to qualify as a REIT. Our cash flow would be reduced if we fail to qualify as a REIT: While we believe that we have qualified since 1990 to be taxed as a REIT, and will continue to be so qualified, we cannot be certain. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we need to satisfy certain requirements under the federal income tax laws relating to our income, assets, distributions to shareholders and shareholder base. In this regard, the share ownership limits in our articles of incorporation do not necessarily ensure that our shareholder base is sufficiently diverse for us to qualify as a REIT. For any year we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be taxed at regular corporate tax rates on our taxable income unless certain relief provisions apply. Taxes would reduce our cash available for distributions to shareholders or for reinvestment, which could adversely affect us and our shareholders. Also we would not be allowed to elect REIT status for five years after we fail to qualify unless certain relief provisions apply. We may need to borrow funds to meet our REIT distribution requirements: To qualify as a REIT, we must generally distribute to our shareholders 90% of our taxable income. Our income consists primarily of our share of our Operating Partnership’s income. We intend to make sufficient distributions to qualify as a REIT and otherwise avoid corporate tax. However, differences in timing between income and expenses and the need to make nondeductible expenditures such as capital improvements and principal payments on debt could force us to borrow funds to make necessary shareholder distributions. The recent market disruptions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. While the United States economy is beginning to show signs of stability, it has undergone pervasive and fundamental disruptions over the past three years. The continuation or intensification of any such volatility may have an adverse impact on the availability of credit to businesses generally and could lead to a further weakening of the U.S. and global economies. To the extent that turmoil in the financial markets returns or intensifies, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our properties, the availability or the terms of financing and may impact the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. The uncertainty and pace of an economic recovery could also affect our operating results and financial condition as follows: Debt and Equity Markets: Our results of operations and share price are sensitive to volatility in the credit markets. The commercial real estate debt markets have experienced significant volatility as a result of various factors, including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies and the continued erosion of operating fundamentals of assets pledged as collateral. Credit spreads for major sources of capital widened significantly as investors have demanded a higher risk premium. This has resulted in lenders increasing the cost for debt financing. Should the overall cost of borrowings increase, either by increases in the index rates or by increases in lender spreads, we will need to factor such increases into the economics of our acquisitions. In addition, the state of the debt markets could have an effect on the overall amount of capital being invested in real estate, which may result in price or value decreases of real estate assets and affect our ability to raise capital. : Valuations: Market volatility has made the valuation of our properties more difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties, which could result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of our properties, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings. : Government Intervention: The pervasive and fundamental disruptions that the United States economy has undergone led to extensive and unprecedented governmental intervention. Such intervention has in certain cases been implemented on an “emergency” basis, suddenly and substantially eliminating market participants’ ability to continue to implement certain strategies or manage the risk of their outstanding positions. In addition, these 10 interventions have typically been unclear in scope and application, resulting in confusion and uncertainty which in itself has been materially detrimental to the efficient functioning of the markets as well as previously successful investment strategies. It is impossible to predict what, if any, additional interim or permanent governmental restrictions may be imposed on the markets or the effect of such restrictions on us and our results of operations. There is a high likelihood of significantly increased regulation of the financial markets that could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition. Since we buy and operate real estate, we are subject to general real estate investment and operating risks. Summary of real estate risks: We own and operate commercial properties and are subject to the risks of owning real estate generally and commercial properties in particular. These risks include: • the national, state and local economic climate and real estate conditions, such as oversupply of or reduced demand for space and changes in market rental rates; • how prospective tenants perceive the attractiveness, convenience and safety of our properties; • difficulties in consummating and financing acquisitions and developments on advantageous terms and the failure of acquisitions and developments to perform as expected; • our ability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance; • our ability to collect rent from tenants on a timely basis; • the expense of periodically renovating, repairing and reletting spaces; • environmental issues; • compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other federal, state, and local laws and regulations; • increasing operating costs, including real estate taxes, insurance and utilities, if these increased costs cannot be passed through to tenants; • changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws; • increase in new commercial properties in our market; • tenant defaults and bankruptcies; • tenants’ right to sublease space; and • concentration of properties leased to non-rated private companies. Certain significant costs, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance, generally are not reduced even when a property’s rental income is reduced. In addition, environmental and tax laws, interest rate levels, the availability of financing and other factors may affect real estate values and property income. Furthermore, the supply of commercial space fluctuates with market conditions. If our properties do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses, including any debt service, tenant improvements, lease commissions and other capital expenditures, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover fixed costs, and we may have to reduce our distributions to shareholders. We may be unable to consummate acquisitions and developments on advantageous terms or new acquisitions and developments may fail to perform as expected: We were able to successfully acquire $301.7 million of new properties, aggregating 2.3 million square feet, in 2010 and we continue to seek to acquire and develop flex, industrial and office properties where they meet our criteria all of which we believe will enhance our future financial performance and the value of our portfolio. Our belief, however, is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are forward-looking and are uncertain in nature or are beyond our control, including the risks that our acquisitions and developments may not perform as expected, that we may be unable to quickly integrate new acquisitions and developments into our existing operations, and that any costs to develop projects or redevelop acquired properties may exceed estimates. As of December 31, 2010, the occupancy of the assets acquired in 2010 11 was 72.4%. If the Company is unable to lease the vacant square footage of these properties in a reasonable period of time, it may not be able to achieve its objective of enhancing value. Further, we face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors, including other publicly traded real estate investment trusts and private institutional investors. As a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. In addition, some of these properties may have unknown characteristics or deficiencies or may not complement our portfolio of existing properties. In addition, we may finance future acquisitions and developments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings by us or the Operating Partnership, and proceeds from property divestitures. These financing options may not be available when desired or required or may be more costly than anticipated, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Real property development is subject to a number of risks, including construction delays, complications in obtaining necessary zoning, occupancy and other governmental permits, cost overruns, financing risks, and the possible inability to meet expected occupancy and rent levels. If any of these problems occur, development costs for a project may increase, and there may be costs incurred for projects that are not completed. As a result of the foregoing, some properties may be worth less or may generate less revenue than, or simply not perform as well as, we believed at the time of acquisition or development, negatively affecting our operating results. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow, and our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. In addition, we may be unable to successfully integrate and effectively manage the properties we do acquire and develop, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may encounter significant delays and expense in reletting vacant space, or we may not be able to relet space at existing rates, in each case resulting in losses of income: When leases expire, we will incur expenses in retrofitting space and we may not be able to re-lease the space on the same terms. Certain leases provide tenants with the right to terminate early if they pay a fee. As of December 31, 2010, our properties generally had lower vacancy rates than the average for the markets in which they are located, and leases accounting for 20.5% of our annualized rental income are scheduled to expire in 2011. While we have estimated our cost of renewing leases that expire in 2011, our estimates could be wrong. If we are unable to re-lease space promptly, if the terms are significantly less favorable than anticipated or if the costs are higher, we may have to reduce our distributions to shareholders. Tenant defaults and bankruptcies may reduce our cash flow and distributions: We may have difficulty collecting from tenants in default, particularly if they declare bankruptcy. This could affect our cash flow and our ability to fund distributions to shareholders. Since many of our tenants are non-rated private companies, this risk may be enhanced. There is inherent uncertainty in a tenant’s ability to continue paying rent if they are in bankruptcy. We may be adversely affected by significant competition among commercial properties: Many other commercial properties compete with our properties for tenants. Some of the competing properties may be newer and better located than our properties. We also expect that new properties will be built in our markets. In addition, we compete with other buyers, many of which are larger than us, for attractive commercial properties. Therefore, we may not be able to grow as rapidly as we would like. We may be adversely affected if casualties to our properties are not covered by insurance: We could suffer uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance policy limits for occurrences such as earthquakes or hurricanes that adversely affect us or even result in loss of the property. We might still remain liable on any mortgage debt or other unsatisfied obligations related to that property. The illiquidity of our real estate investments may prevent us from adjusting our portfolio to respond to market changes: There may be delays and difficulties in selling real estate. Therefore, we cannot easily change our portfolio when economic conditions change. Also, tax laws limit a REIT’s ability to sell properties held for less than four years. We may be adversely affected by changes in laws: Increases in income and service taxes may reduce our cash flow and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. Our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and safety codes. If we fail to comply with these requirements, governmental authorities could fine us or courts could award damages against us. We believe our properties comply with all significant legal requirements. However, these requirements could change in a way that would reduce our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders. 12 We may incur significant environmental remediation costs: Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, an owner or operator of real estate may have to clean spills or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from a property. Certain environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. In some cases, liability may exceed the value of the property. The presence of toxic substances, or the failure to properly remedy any resulting contamination, may make it more difficult for the owner or operator to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow money using its property as collateral. Future environmental laws may impose additional material liabilities on us. We depend on external sources of capital to grow our company. We are generally required under the Internal Revenue Code to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary building and tenant improvements, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we may need to rely on third-party sources of capital to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all. Access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on general market conditions, the market’s perception of our growth potential, our current and expected future earnings, our cash flow, and the market price per share of our common stock. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy any debt service obligations, or make cash distributions to shareholders. We can change our business policies and increase our level of debt without shareholder approval. Our board of directors establishes our investment, financing, distribution and our other business policies and may change these policies without shareholder approval. Our organizational documents do not limit our level of debt. A change in our policies or an increase in our level of debt could adversely affect our operations or the price of our common stock. We can issue additional securities without shareholder approval. We can issue preferred equity, common stock and equity stock without shareholder approval. Holders of preferred stock have priority over holders of common stock, and the issuance of additional shares of stock reduces the interest of existing holders in our company. Increases in interest rates may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. One of the factors that influences the market price of our common stock is the annual rate of distributions that we pay on our common stock, as compared with interest rates. An increase in interest rates may lead purchasers of REIT shares to demand higher annual distribution rates, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Shares that become available for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Substantial sales of our common stock, or the perception that substantial sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, PS and its affiliates owned 23.5% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock and 22.8% of the outstanding common units of the Operating Partnership (100% of the common units not owned by the Company). Assuming issuance of the Company’s common stock upon redemption of its partnership units, PS would own 41.0% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock. These shares, as well as shares of common stock held by certain other significant shareholders, are eligible to be sold in the public market, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws. We depend on key personnel. We depend on our key personnel, including Joseph D. Russell, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Russell or other key personnel could adversely affect our operations. We maintain no key person insurance on our key personnel. 13 Change in taxation of corporate dividends may adversely affect the value of our shares. The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, enacted on May 28, 2003, generally reduced to 15% the maximum marginal rate of federal tax payable by individuals on dividends received from a regular C corporation. This reduced tax rate, however, does not apply to dividends paid to individuals by a REIT on its shares except for certain limited amounts. The earnings of a REIT that are distributed to its shareholders are generally subject to less federal income taxation on an aggregate basis than earnings of a regular C corporation that are distributed to its shareholders net of corporate-level income tax. The Jobs and Growth Tax Act, however, could cause individual investors to view stocks of regular C corporations as more attractive relative to shares of REITs than was the case prior to the enactment of the legislation because the dividends from regular C corporations, which previously were taxed at the same rate as REIT dividends, are now at a maximum marginal rate of 15% while REIT dividends are generally taxed at a maximum marginal rate of 35%. We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial statements. There can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as recently adopted legislation that expands health care coverage costs or facilitates union activity or federal legislative proposals to otherwise increase operating costs. Terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results. Further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. Such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall. In addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the U.S. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results. Developments in California may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We are headquartered in, and approximately 26.6% of our properties are located in California, which like many other state and local jurisdictions is facing severe budgetary problems and deficits. Action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed “Business Net Receipts Tax” or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 