RISK FACTORS We depend on industries that continually produce technologically advanced products with short life cycles; our inability to continually manufacture such products on a cost-effective basis could harm our business. We derive our revenues from the following industries: • handheld devices, with products such as cellular phones and personal digital assistants; • computer and office automation, with products such as copiers, scanners, graphics cards, desktop and notebook computers, and peripheral devices such as printers and projectors; • communications infrastructure, with products such as equipment for optical networks, wireless base stations, access/edge routers and switches, and broadband access equipment; • consumer devices, with products such as set-top boxes, home entertainment equipment, cameras and home appliances; • information technology infrastructure, with products such as servers, workstations, storage systems, mainframes, hubs and routers; and • a variety of other industries, including the industrial, automotive and medical industries. 9 Table of Contents Factors affecting any of these industries in general, or our customers in particular, could seriously harm us. These factors include: • rapid changes in technology, evolving industry standards and requirements for continuous improvement in products and services, result in short product life cycles; • demand for our customers’ products may be seasonal; • our customers may fail to successfully market their products, and our customers’ products may fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance; and • there may be recessionary periods in our customers’ markets. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or locations, or delay production. As a provider of electronics manufacturing services, we must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround time for our customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and we often experience reduced lead-times in customer orders. Customers cancel their orders, change production quantities and delay production for a number of reasons. Uncertain economic and geopolitical conditions have resulted, and may continue to result, in some of our customers delaying the delivery of some of the products we manufacture for them, and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers have harmed, and may continue to harm, our results of operations by reducing the volumes of products we manufacture and deliver for these customers, by causing a delay in the repayment of our expenditures for inventory in preparation for customer orders and by lowering our asset utilization resulting in lower gross margins. In addition, customers often require that manufacturing of their products be transitioned from one facility to another to achieve cost and other objectives. Such transfers result in inefficiencies and costs due to resulting excess capacity and overhead at one facility and capacity constraints and related stresses at the other. In addition, we make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. This makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity. On occasion, customers require rapid increases in production, which stress our resources and reduce our margins. Although we have increased our manufacturing capacity, and plan further increases, we may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers’ demands. In addition, because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand harms our gross profit and operating income. Our operating results vary significantly from period to period. We experience significant fluctuations in our results of operations. Some of the principal factors that contribute to the fluctuations in our annual and quarterly operating results are: • adverse changes in general economic conditions; • changes in demand for our services; • our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes and costs in order to decrease manufacturing expenses; • the mix of the types of manufacturing services we provide, as high-volume and low-complexity manufacturing services typically have lower gross margins than lower volume and more complex services; 10 Table of Contents • changes in the cost and availability of labor and components, which often occur in the electronics manufacturing industry and which affect our margins and our ability to meet delivery schedules; • the degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity; • our ability to manage the timing of our component purchases so that components are available when needed for production, while avoiding the risks of purchasing inventory in excess of immediate production needs; • local conditions and events that may affect our production volumes, such as labor conditions, political instability and local holidays; and • changes in demand in our customers’ end markets. Two of our significant end-markets are the handheld electronics devices market and the consumer devices market. These markets exhibit particular strength toward the end of the calendar year in connection with the holiday season. As a result, we have historically experienced stronger revenues in our third fiscal quarter as compared to our other fiscal quarters. We may encounter difficulties with acquisitions, which could harm our business. We have completed numerous acquisitions of businesses and we expect to continue to acquire additional businesses in the future. We are currently in preliminary discussions with respect to potential acquisitions and strategic customer transactions, and we are in the process of completing the acquisition of Nortel’s optical, and wireless and enterprise manufacturing operations and related supply chain activities, as described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview.” We do not have any other definitive agreements to make any material acquisitions or strategic customer transactions. Any future acquisitions may require additional debt or equity financing. This could increase our leverage or be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We may not be able to complete acquisitions or strategic customer transactions in the future to the same extent as in the past, or at all. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our management information systems and operating systems and assimilate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. The difficulties of this integration may be further complicated by geographic distances. The integration of acquired businesses may not be successful and could result in disruption to other parts of our business. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including: • difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and operations; • diversion of management’s attention from the normal operation of our business; • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, which is a particular concern in the acquisition of companies engaged in product and software design; • difficulties managing and integrating operations in geographically dispersed locations; • lack of experience operating in the geographic market or industry sector of the acquired business; • the risk of deficiencies in internal controls at acquired companies; • increases in our expenses and working capital requirements, which reduce our return on invested capital; and • exposure to unanticipated liabilities of acquired companies. These and other factors have harmed, and in the future could harm, our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition, and could adversely affect our business and operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our new strategic relationship with Nortel involves a number of risks, and we may not succeed in realizing the anticipated benefits of this relationship. The transaction with Nortel described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview” is subject to a number of closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, conversion of information technology systems, and the completion of the required information and consultation process with employee representatives in Europe. Some of the processes involved in converting information technology systems (including the integration of related systems and internal controls) are complex and time consuming, and may present unanticipated difficulties. As a result, we currently expect that this transaction will not be completed before the March 2006 quarter. Further delays may arise if the conversion of information technology systems requires more time than presently anticipated. In addition, completion of the required information and consultation process with employee representatives in Europe may result in additional delays and in difficulties in retaining employees. After closing, the success of this transaction will depend on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired operations with our existing operations. This will involve integrating Nortel’s operations into our existing procurement activities, and assimilating and managing existing personnel. In addition, this transaction will increase our expenses and working capital requirements, and place burdens on our management resources. In the event we are unsuccessful in integrating the acquired operations, we would not achieve the anticipated benefits of this transaction, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. As a result of the new strategic relationship, we expect that Nortel will become our largest single customer, and will represent over 10% of our net sales. The manufacturing relationship with Nortel is not exclusive, and they are entitled to use other suppliers for a portion of their requirements of these products. Although Nortel has agreed to use us to manufacture a majority of its requirements for these existing products, for so long as our services are competitive, our services may not remain competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to manufacture a majority of Nortel’s requirements for these products. In addition, sales of these products depend on a number of factors, including global economic conditions, competition, new technologies that could render these products obsolete, the level of sales and marketing resources devoted by Nortel with respect to these products, and the success of these sales and marketing activities. If demand for these products should decline, we would experience reduced sales and gross margins from these products. We have agreed to cost reduction targets and price limitations and to certain manufacturing quality requirements. We may not be able to reduce costs over time as required, and Nortel would be entitled to certain reductions in their product prices, which would adversely affect our margins from this program. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in meeting Nortel’s expectations as to product quality and timeliness. If Nortel’s requirements exceed the volume we anticipate, we may be unable to meet these requirements on a timely basis. Our inability to meet Nortel’s volume, quality, timeliness and cost requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, Nortel may not purchase a sufficient quantity of products from us to meet our expectations and we may not utilize a sufficient portion of the acquired capacity to achieve profitable operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We completed the closing of the acquisition of Nortel’s optical design operations in November 2004, and as a result we employ approximately 150 of Nortel’s former optical design employees. In addition, in February 2005, we also completed the closing of the manufacturing operations and related assets (including product integration, testing, repair and logistics operations) in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. We may fail to retain and motivate these employees or to successfully integrate them into our operations. Although we expect that our gross margin and operating margin on sales to Nortel will initially be less than that generally realized by the Company in fiscal 2005, we also expect that we will be able to increase these gross margins over time through cost reductions and by internally sourcing our vertically integrated supply chain solutions, which include the fabrication and assembly of printed circuit boards and enclosures, as well as logistics and repair services. Additionally, the impact of lower gross margins may be partially offset by 12 Table of Contents the effect of anticipated lower selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net sales. There can be no assurance that we will realize lower expenses or increased operating efficiencies as anticipated. Our strategic relationships with major customers create risks. Over the past several years, we have completed numerous strategic transactions with OEM customers, including, among others, Alcatel, Casio, Ericsson and Xerox, and we are currently in the process of completing a strategic transaction with Nortel. Under these arrangements, we generally acquire inventory, equipment and other assets from the OEM, and lease or acquire their manufacturing facilities, while simultaneously entering into multi-year supply agreements for the production of their products. We intend to continue to pursue these OEM divestiture transactions in the future. There is strong competition among EMS companies for these transactions, and this competition may increase. These transactions have contributed to a significant portion of our revenue growth, and if we fail to complete similar transactions in the future, our revenue growth could be harmed. The arrangements entered into with divesting OEMs typically involve many risks, including the following: • we may need to pay a purchase price to the divesting OEMs that exceeds the value we may realize from the future business of the OEM; • the integration of the acquired assets and facilities into our business may be time-consuming and costly; • we, rather than the divesting OEM, bear the risk of excess capacity at the facility; • we may not achieve anticipated cost reductions and efficiencies at the facility; • we may be unable to meet the expectations of the OEM as to volume, product quality, timeliness and cost reductions; • our supply agreements with the OEMs generally do not require any minimum volumes of purchase by the OEMs, and the actual volume of purchases may be less than anticipated; and • if demand for the OEMs’ products declines, the OEM may reduce its volume of purchases, and we may not be able to sufficiently reduce the expenses of operating the facility or use the facility to provide services to other OEMs. As a result of these and other risks, we have been, and in the future may be, unable to achieve anticipated levels of profitability under these arrangements. In addition, these strategic arrangements have not, and in the future may not, result in any material revenues or contribute positively to our earnings per share. If we do not effectively manage changes in our operations, our business may be harmed. We have experienced growth in our business through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions, and we expect to make additional acquisitions in the future, including our pending completion of the acquisition of assets from Nortel described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview.” Our global workforce has more than doubled in size since the beginning of fiscal year 2001. During that time, we have also reduced our workforce at some locations and closed certain facilities in connection with our restructuring activities. These changes have placed considerable strain on our management control systems and resources, including decision support, accounting management, information systems and facilities. If we do not continue to improve our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to manage our employees effectively and to expand our facilities, our business could be harmed. We plan to continue to transition manufacturing to lower cost locations and we may be required to take additional restructuring charges in the future as a result of these activities. We also intend to increase our 13 Table of Contents manufacturing capacity in our low-cost regions by expanding our facilities and adding new equipment. Acquisitions and expansions involve significant risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • we may not be able to attract and retain the management personnel and skilled employees necessary to support newly-acquired or expanded operations; • we may not efficiently and effectively integrate new operations and information systems, expand our existing operations and manage geographically dispersed operations; • we may incur cost overruns; • we may incur charges related to our expansion activities; • we may encounter construction delays, equipment delays or shortages, labor shortages and disputes and production start-up problems that could harm our growth and our ability to meet customers’ delivery schedules; and • we may not be able to obtain funds for acquisitions and expansions on attractive terms, and we may not be able to obtain loans or operating leases with attractive terms. In addition, we expect to incur new fixed operating expenses associated with our expansion efforts that will increase our cost of sales, including increases in depreciation expense and rental expense. If our revenues do not increase sufficiently to offset these expenses, our operating results could be seriously harmed. Our transition to low-cost manufacturing regions has contributed to significant restructuring and other charges that have resulted from reducing our workforce and capacity at higher-cost locations. We recognized restructuring charges of approximately $95.4 million, $540.3 million and $297.0 million in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, associated with the consolidation and closure of several manufacturing facilities, and related impairment of certain long-lived assets. We expect to recognize approximately $100 million of restructuring charges in fiscal 2006 and we may be required to take additional charges in the future as a result of these activities. We cannot assure you as to the timing or amount of any future restructuring charges. If we are required to take additional restructuring charges in the future, it could have a material adverse impact on operating results, financial position and cash flows. Our increased design services offering may reduce our profitability. As part of our strategy to enhance our vertically-integrated end-to-end service offerings, we are actively pursuing the expansion of our design and engineering capabilities, which requires that we make investments in research and development, technology licensing, test and tooling equipment, patent applications, facility expansion, and recruitment. Although we enter into contracts with our design services customers, we may design and develop products for these customers prior to receiving a purchase order or other firm commitment from them. We are required to make substantial investments in the resources necessary to design and develop these products, and no revenue may be generated from these efforts if our customers do not approve the designs in a timely manner or at all, or if they do not then purchase anticipated levels of products. Certain of the products we design and develop must satisfy safety and regulatory standards and some must receive government certifications. If we fail to obtain these approvals or certifications on a timely basis, we would be unable to sell these products, which would harm our sales, profitability and reputation. In addition, design activities often require that we purchase inventory for initial production runs before we have a purchase commitment from a customer. Even after we have a contract with a customer with respect to a product, these contracts may allow the customer to delay or cancel deliveries and may not obligate the customer to any volume of purchases. These contracts can generally be terminated by either party on short notice. Due to the increased risks associated with our design services offerings, we may not be able to achieve a high enough level of sales for this business to be profitable. Due to the initial costs of investing in the resources necessary to expand our design and engineering capabilities, and in particular to support our ODM services offerings, our profitability during fiscal years 2005 and 2004 was adversely affected. We continue to make investments in these capabilities, which could adversely affect our profitability during fiscal year 2006 and beyond. 14 Table of Contents Intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business. Our design services involve the creation and use of intellectual property rights, which subject us to the risk of claims of intellectual property infringement from third parties, as well as claims arising from the allocation of intellectual property rights among us and our design services customers. In addition, customers for our ODM and components design services typically require that we indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or our customers for such infringement, whether or not these have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of such claims. In the event of such an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such alternatives or obtaining such a license on reasonable terms or at all. The success of certain of our design activities depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We retain certain intellectual property rights to certain technologies that we develop as part of our engineering and design activities. As the level of our engineering and design activities is increasing, the extent to which we rely on rights to intellectual property incorporated into products is increasing. Despite our efforts, we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken to prevent unauthorized use of our technology will be successful. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, this could reduce or eliminate the competitive advantages of our proprietary technology, which would harm our business. If our ODM products or components are subject to design defects, our business may be damaged and we may incur significant fees and costs. A defect in a design could result in product or component failures or a product liability claim. In our contracts with our ODM products or components customers we generally provide a warranty against defects in our designs. Since we provide this warranty to these customers we are exposed to an increased risk of warranty claims. If we design a product or component that is found to have a design defect, we could spend a significant amount of money to resolve these design warranty claims. We may also incur considerable costs in connection with product liability claims that may arise as a result of our design and engineering activities. We have limited product liability insurance coverage, however it is expensive and may not be available with respect to all of our design services offerings on acceptable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied or limited or is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to intangible asset risk. We have a substantial amount of intangible assets. These intangible assets are attributable to acquisitions and represent the difference between the purchase price paid for the acquired businesses and the fair value of the net tangible assets of the acquired businesses. We are required to evaluate goodwill and other intangibles for impairment on at least an annual basis, and whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. As a result of our annual and other periodic evaluations, we may determine that the intangible asset values need to be written down to their fair values, which could result in material charges that could be adverse to our operating results and financial position. We depend on the continuing trend of outsourcing by OEMs. Future growth in our revenues depends on new outsourcing opportunities in which we assume additional manufacturing and supply chain management responsibilities from OEMs. To the extent that these opportunities are not available, either because OEMs decide to perform these functions internally or because they use other providers of these services, our future growth would be limited. 15 Table of Contents The majority of our sales come from a small number of customers; if we lose any of these customers, our sales could decline significantly. Sales to our ten largest customers represent a significant percentage of our net sales. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 62% and 64% of net sales in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our largest customers during fiscal year 2005 were Sony-Ericsson and Hewlett-Packard, which accounted for approximately 14% and 10% of net sales, respectively. Hewlett-Packard and Sony-Ericsson each accounted for approximately 12% of net sales in fiscal 2004. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal year 2005 or fiscal year 2004. Our principal customers have varied from year to year, and our principal customers may not continue to purchase services from us at current levels, if at all. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, or the loss of major customers, would seriously harm our business. If we are not able to timely replace expired, canceled or reduced contracts with new business, our revenues could be harmed. Our industry is extremely competitive. The EMS industry is extremely competitive and includes many companies, several of which have achieved substantial market share. Current and prospective customers also evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products themselves. Some of our competitors may have greater design, manufacturing, financial or other resources than we do. Additionally, we face competition from Taiwanese ODM suppliers, which have a substantial share of the global market for information technology hardware production, primarily related to notebook and desktop computers and personal computer motherboards, and which manufacture consumer products and provide other technology manufacturing services. The overall demand for electronics manufacturing services decreased in recent years, resulting in increased capacity and substantial pricing pressures, which have harmed our operating results. Certain sectors of the EMS industry have experienced increased price competition, and if we experience such increased level of competition in the future, our revenues and gross margin may continue to be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by shortages of required electronic components. At various times, there have been shortages of some of the electronic components that we use, as a result of strong demand for those components or problems experienced by suppliers. These unanticipated component shortages have resulted in curtailed production or delays in production, which prevented us from making scheduled shipments to customers in the past and may do so in the future. Our inability to make scheduled shipments could cause the Company to experience a reduction in sales, increase in inventory levels and costs, and could adversely affect relationships with existing and prospective customers. Component shortages may also increase our cost of goods sold because we may be required to pay higher prices for components in short supply and redesign or reconfigure products to accommodate substitute components. As a result, component shortages could adversely affect our operating results for a particular period due to the resulting revenue shortfall and increased manufacturing or component costs. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes. We have structured our operations in a manner designed to maximize income in countries where: • tax incentives have been extended to encourage foreign investment; or • income tax rates are low. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. However, our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law, which may have retroactive effect. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may require us to pay taxes or make payments in lieu of taxes. 16 Table of Contents Several countries in which we are located allow for tax holidays or provide other tax incentives to attract and retain business. These tax incentives expire over various periods from 2005 to 2010 and are subject to certain conditions with which we expect to comply. We have obtained tax holidays or other incentives where available, primarily in China, Malaysia and Hungary. In these three countries, we generated an aggregate of approximately $10 billion of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. Our taxes could increase if certain tax holidays or incentives are not renewed upon expiration, or tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased. In addition, further acquisitions or divestitures may cause our effective tax rate to increase. We conduct operations in a number of countries and are subject to risks of international operations. The geographical distances between the Americas, Asia and Europe create a number of logistical and communications challenges for the Company. These challenges include managing operations across multiple time zones, directing the manufacture and delivery of products across distances, coordinating procurement of components and raw materials and their delivery to multiple locations, and coordinating the activities and decisions of the core management team, which is based in a number of different countries. Facilities in several different locations may be involved at different stages of the production of a single product, leading to additional logistical difficulties. Because our manufacturing operations are located in a number of countries throughout the Americas, Asia and Europe, we are subject to the risks of changes in economic and political conditions in those countries, including: • fluctuations in the value of local currencies; • labor unrest and difficulties in staffing; • longer payment cycles; • cultural differences; • increases in duties and taxation levied on our products; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • limitations on imports or exports of components or assembled products, or other travel restrictions; • expropriation of private enterprises; and • a potential reversal of current favorable policies encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries. The attractiveness of our services to U.S. customers can be affected by changes in U.S. trade policies, such as most favored nation status and trade preferences for some Asian countries. In addition, some countries in which we operate, such as Brazil, Hungary, Mexico, Malaysia and Poland, have experienced periods of slow or negative growth, high inflation, significant currency devaluations or limited availability of foreign exchange. Furthermore, in countries such as China and Mexico, governmental authorities exercise significant influence over many aspects of the economy, and their actions could have a significant effect on us. Finally, we could be seriously harmed by inadequate infrastructure, including lack of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials and parts in countries in which we operate. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could increase our operating costs. Our manufacturing operations and industrial parks are located in lower cost regions of the world, such as Asia, Eastern Europe and Mexico; however, most of our purchase and sale transactions are denominated in United States Dollars or Euros. As a result, we are exposed to fluctuations in the functional currencies of our fixed cost overhead or our supply base relative to the currencies in which we conduct transactions. Currency exchange rates fluctuate on a daily basis as a result of a number of factors, including changes in a country’s political and economic policies. Volatility in the functional currencies of our entities and the Euro 17 Table of Contents or United States Dollar could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The primary impact of currency exchange fluctuations is on our cash, receivables, and payables of our operating entities. As part of our currency hedging strategy, we use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to hedge United States Dollar and other currency commitments in order to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on current assets and liabilities. Additionally, we manage our foreign currency exposure by borrowing money in various foreign currencies. If our hedging activities are not successful or if we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. We are also exposed to the risk that China may revalue its currency relative to other foreign currencies. The Chinese currency is the renminbi yuan (RMB). The Chinese government is under global international pressure to relax its control over the exchange rate of the RMB relative to the United States Dollar and instead to let the value of the RMB “float” either free or within a band against the United Stated Dollar. It is generally understood that the effect of the Chinese government’s control of the RMB exchange rate has been to undervalue the RMB. There is no certainty as to whether the Chinese government will elect to revalue the RMB in the near future, or at all. In addition, the Chinese government has not disclosed the magnitude of any revaluation it may be considering. A significant increase in the value of the RMB could adversely affect our financial results and cash flows by increasing both our manufacturing costs and the costs of our local supply base. We depend on our executive officers and skilled management personnel. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive officers. Generally our employees are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements, and we cannot assure you that we will retain our executive officers and other key employees. We could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers. In order to manage our growth, we will need to recruit and retain additional skilled management personnel and if we are not able to do so, our business and our ability to continue to grow could be harmed. In addition, in connection with expanding our design services offerings, we must attract and retain experienced design engineers. Although we and a number of companies in our industry have implemented workforce reductions, there remains substantial competition for highly skilled employees. Our failure to recruit and retain experienced design engineers could limit the growth of our design services offerings, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to environmental compliance risks. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including hazardous substance product content regulations, and regulations governing the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances in the ordinary course of our manufacturing process. We are exposed to liabilities related to hazardous substance content regulations as some customers are requiring that we take responsibility for the risk of non-compliance for the components that we procure for those customers’ products. To address this risk, we require that component suppliers comply with relevant hazardous substance product content regulations and we engage in other standard mitigating activities. However, these efforts may be unsuccessful and we may incur significant liabilities and be required to expend substantial amounts of money on behalf of our customers to enforce or otherwise satisfy the obligations of the component suppliers. In addition, we are responsible for cleanup of contamination at some of our current and former manufacturing facilities and at some third party sites. If more stringent compliance or cleanup standards under environmental laws or regulations are imposed, or the results of future testing and analyses at our current or former operating facilities indicate that we are responsible for the release of hazardous substances, we may be subject to additional remediation liability. Further, additional environmental matters may arise in the future at sites where no problem is currently known or at sites that we may acquire in the future. Currently unexpected costs that we may incur with respect to environmental matters may result in additional loss contingencies, the quantification of which cannot be determined at this time. 18 Table of Contents The market price of our ordinary shares is volatile. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. The market for our ordinary shares may be subject to similar fluctuations. Factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, announcements of technological innovations or events affecting other companies in the electronics industry, currency fluctuations and general market conditions may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. It may be difficult for investors to effect services of process within the United States on us or to enforce civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States against us. We are incorporated in Singapore under the Companies Act, Chapter 50 of Singapore, or Singapore Companies Act. Some of our officers reside outside the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of Flextronics International Ltd. are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or to enforce against us in United States courts, judgments obtained in such courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Judgments of United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States are not directly enforceable in Singapore courts and there can be no assurance as to whether Singapore courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in Singapore courts based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. 