ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the Company. This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in Item 1, “Business — Forward-Looking Statements.” Since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership: Since we derive substantially all of our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of acquiring and owning real estate-related assets, including: · changes in the national, state and local economic climate and real estate conditions, such as oversupply of or reduced demand for commercial real estate space and changes in market rental rates; · how prospective tenants perceive the attractiveness, convenience and safety of our properties; · difficulties in consummating and financing acquisitions and developments on advantageous terms and the failure of acquisitions and developments to perform as expected; · our ability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance; · natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, which could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage; · the expense of periodically renovating, repairing and re-letting spaces; · the impact of environmental protection laws; · compliance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations; · increasing operating and maintenance costs, including property taxes, insurance and utilities, if these increased costs cannot be passed through to tenants; · adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; · increasing competition from other commercial properties in our market; · tenant defaults and bankruptcies; · tenants’ right to sublease space; and · concentration of properties leased to non-rated private companies with uncertain financial strength. Certain significant costs, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance, generally are not reduced even when a property’s rental income is reduced. In addition, environmental and tax laws, interest rate levels, the availability of financing and other factors may affect real estate values and property income. Furthermore, the supply of commercial space fluctuates with market conditions. If our properties do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses, including any debt service, tenant improvements, lease commissions and other capital expenditures, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover fixed costs, and we may have to reduce our distributions to shareholders. There is significant competition among commercial properties: Other commercial properties compete with our properties for tenants. Some of the competing properties may be newer and better located than our properties. Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. We also expect that new properties will be built in our markets. 9 Table of Contents In addition, we compete with other buyers, some of which are larger than us, for attractive commercial properties. Therefore, we may not be able to grow as rapidly as we would like. We may encounter significant delays and expense in re-letting vacant space, or we may not be able to re-let space at existing rates, in each case resulting in losses of income: When leases expire, we may incur expenses in retrofitting space and we may not be able to re-lease the space on the same terms. Certain leases provide tenants with the right to terminate early if they pay a fee. As of December 31, 2015, 2,186 leases representing 22.0% of the leased square footage of our total portfolio, or 21.3% of annualized rental income, are scheduled to expire in 2016. While we have estimated our cost of renewing leases that expire in 2016, our estimates could be wrong. If we are unable to re-lease space promptly, if the terms are significantly less favorable than anticipated or if the costs are higher, we may have to reduce our distributions to shareholders. Tenant defaults and bankruptcies may reduce our cash flow and distributions: We may have difficulty collecting from tenants in default, particularly if they declare bankruptcy. This could affect our cash flow and our ability to fund distributions to shareholders. Since many of our tenants are non-rated private companies, this risk may be enhanced. There is inherent uncertainty in a tenant’s ability to continue paying rent if they are in bankruptcy. We may be adversely affected if casualties to our properties are not covered by insurance: While we maintain insurance coverage for the losses caused by earthquakes or hurricanes, we could suffer uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance policy limits for such occurrences. Approximately 40.2% of our properties are located in California and are generally in areas that are subject to risks of earthquake-related damage. In the event of an earthquake, hurricane or other natural disaster, we would remain liable on any mortgage debt or other unsatisfied obligations related to that property. The illiquidity of our real estate investments may prevent us from adjusting our portfolio to respond to market changes: There may be delays and difficulties in selling real estate. Therefore, we cannot easily change our portfolio when economic conditions change. Also, REIT tax laws may impose negative consequences if we sell properties held for less than two years. We may be adversely affected by changes in laws: Increases in income and service taxes may reduce our cash flow and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, any changes in the tax law applicable to REITs may adversely affect taxation of us and/or our shareholders. Our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and safety codes. If we fail to comply with these requirements, governmental authorities could fine us or courts could award damages against us. We believe our properties comply with all significant legal requirements. However, these requirements could change in a way that would reduce our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders. We may incur significant environmental remediation costs: As an owner and operator of real properties, under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we are required to clean up spills or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties. Certain environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner or buyer knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. In some cases, liability may not be limited to the value of the property. The presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, whether from environmental or microbial issues, also may adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber our facilities for purposes of borrowing. We have conducted preliminary environmental assessments of most of our properties (and conduct these assessments in connection with property acquisitions) to evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities associated with, our properties. These assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis if appropriate), as well as a review of available information regarding the site and publicly available data regarding conditions at other sites in the vicinity. In connection with these property assessments, our operations and recent property acquisitions, we have become aware that prior operations or activities at some properties or from nearby locations have or may have resulted in contamination to the soil or groundwater at these properties. In circumstances where our environmental assessments disclose potential or actual contamination, we may attempt to obtain indemnifications and, in appropriate circumstances, we obtain limited environmental insurance in connection with the properties acquired, but we cannot assure you that such protections will be sufficient to cover actual future liabilities nor that our assessments have identified all such risks. Although we cannot provide any assurance, based on the preliminary environmental assessments, we are not aware of any environmental contamination of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 Table of Contents There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other property damage. When we receive a complaint concerning moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures in accordance with guidelines and protocols we have developed with the assistance of outside experts. We seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve moisture infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. However, we can give no assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the future. Property taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on investments: Each of our properties is subject to real property taxes, which could increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. Recent local government shortfalls in tax revenue may cause pressure to increase tax rates or assessment levels or impose new taxes. Such increases could adversely impact our profitability. We must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures: All of our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with related regulations (the “ADA”). The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. Various state laws impose similar requirements. A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state laws could lead to government imposed fines on us and/or litigation, which could also involve an award of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. In addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. Compliance with these requirements can require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. Failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. We incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims: From time to time we have to make monetary settlements or defend actions or arbitration to resolve tenant or employment-related claims and disputes. Development of properties can subject us to risks: As of December 31, 2015, we have a joint venture development for the purpose of developing a 395 unit multi-family project. Developments of this nature are subject to a number of risks, including construction delays, complications in obtaining necessary zoning, occupancy and other governmental permits, cost overruns, problems with our joint venture partner, financing risks, and the possible inability to meet expected occupancy and rent levels. If any of these problems occur, development costs for a project may increase, and there may be costs incurred for projects that are not completed. As a result of the foregoing, some properties may be worth less or may generate less revenue than, or simply not perform as well as, we believed at the time of development, negatively affecting our operating results. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow, and our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. In addition, we may be unable to successfully integrate and effectively manage the properties we develop, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Global economic conditions adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. While there continues to be global economic uncertainty, United States unemployment levels have moderated and economic activity has modestly improved. Economic conditions in the markets where we operate facilities, and other events or factors could adversely affect demand for commercial real estate, which could adversely affect our business. To the extent that turmoil in the financial markets returns or intensifies, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our properties, the availability or the terms of financing and may impact the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. The volatility and duration of an economic recovery could also affect our operating results and financial condition as follows: Debt and Equity Markets: Our results of operations and share price are sensitive to volatility in the credit markets. From time to time, the commercial real estate debt markets experience volatility as a result of various factors, including changing underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies. This may result in lenders increasing the cost for debt financing. Should the overall cost of borrowings increase, either by increases in the index rates or by increases in lender spreads, we will need to factor such increases into the economics of our acquisitions. In addition, the state of the debt markets could have an effect on the overall amount of capital being invested in real estate, which may result in price or value decreases of real estate assets and affect our ability to raise capital. 11 Table of Contents Our ability to issue preferred shares or obtain other sources of capital, such as borrowing, has been in the past, and may in the future, be adversely affected by challenging credit market conditions. The issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. We believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business as usual and meet our current obligations. However, if we were unable to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates, that could limit the earnings growth that might otherwise result from the acquisition and development of real estate facilities. Valuations: Market volatility makes the valuation of our properties difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties, which could result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of our properties, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings. The acquisition of existing properties is a significant component of our long-term growth strategy, and acquisitions of existing properties are subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. We acquire existing properties, either in individual transactions or portfolios offered by other commercial real estate owners. In addition to the general risks related to real estate described above, we are also subject to the following risks which may jeopardize our realization of benefits from acquisitions. Any failure to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions to achieve anticipated results and to successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing business could negatively impact our financial results: To fully realize anticipated earnings from an acquisition, we must successfully integrate the property into our operating platform. Failures or unexpected circumstances in the integration process, such as a failure to maintain existing relationships with tenants and employees due to changes in processes, standards, or compensation arrangements, or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings. While we did not acquire property during 2015, we will continue to seek to acquire additional multi-tenant flex, industrial and office properties where they meet our criteria. Our belief, however, is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are forward-looking and are uncertain in nature or are beyond our control, including the risks that our acquisitions and developments may not perform as expected, we may be unable to quickly integrate new acquisitions and developments into our existing operations, and any costs to develop projects or redevelop acquired properties may exceed estimates. Further, we face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors, including other publicly traded real estate investment trusts and private institutional investors. As a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. In addition, some of these properties may have unknown characteristics or deficiencies or may not complement our portfolio of existing properties. We may also finance future acquisitions and developments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings by us or the Operating Partnership, and proceeds from property divestitures. These financing options may not be available when desired or required or may be more costly than anticipated, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Real property development is subject to a number of risks, including construction delays, complications in obtaining necessary zoning, occupancy and other governmental permits, cost overruns, financing risks, and the possible inability to meet expected occupancy and rent levels. If any of these problems occur, development costs for a project may increase, and there may be costs incurred for projects that are not completed. As a result of the foregoing, some properties may be worth less or may generate less revenue than, or simply not perform as well as, we believed at the time of acquisition or development, negatively affecting our operating results. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow, and our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. In addition, we may be unable to successfully integrate and effectively manage the properties we do acquire and develop, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense: Facilities that we acquire are subject to property tax reappraisal which can result in substantial increases to the ongoing property taxes paid by the seller. The reappraisal process is subject to judgment of governmental agencies regarding estimated real estate values and other factors, and as a result there is a significant degree of uncertainty in estimating 12 Table of Contents the property tax expense of an acquired property. In connection with future or recent acquisitions of properties, if our estimates of property taxes following reappraisal are too low, we may not realize anticipated earnings from an acquisition. We would incur adverse tax consequences if we fail to qualify as a REIT. Our cash flow would be reduced if we fail to qualify as a REIT: While we believe that we have qualified since 1990 to be taxed as a REIT, and will continue to be so qualified, we cannot be certain. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we need to satisfy certain requirements under the federal income tax laws relating to our income, assets, distributions to shareholders and shareholder base. In this regard, the share ownership limits in our articles of incorporation do not necessarily ensure that our shareholder base is sufficiently diverse for us to qualify as a REIT. For any year we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be taxed at regular corporate tax rates on our taxable income unless certain relief provisions apply. Taxes would reduce our cash available for distributions to shareholders or for reinvestment, which could adversely affect us and our shareholders. Also we would not be allowed to elect REIT status for five years after we fail to qualify unless certain relief provisions apply. We may need to borrow funds to meet our REIT distribution requirements: To qualify as a REIT, we must generally distribute to our shareholders 90% of our taxable income. Our income consists primarily of our share of our Operating Partnership’s income. We intend to make sufficient distributions to qualify as a REIT and otherwise avoid corporate tax. However, differences in timing between income and expenses and the need to make nondeductible expenditures such as capital improvements and principal payments on debt could force us to borrow funds to make necessary shareholder distributions. Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the Board increased its quarterly dividend from $0.60 per common share to $0.75 per common share, increasing quarterly distributions by $5.2 million per quarter. During the three months ended September 30, 2015, the Board increased its quarterly dividend from $0.50 per common share to $0.60 per common share, increasing quarterly distributions by $3.5 million per quarter. During 2014, the Company sold a combined total of 1.9 million square feet along with some parcels of land in Beaverton, Oregon and Phoenix, Arizona. Absent a special distribution in excess of our normal, recurring quarterly dividend, the Company would have had taxable income in excess of distributions resulting in federal income tax at the corporate level. To qualify for the dividends paid deduction for tax purposes and minimize this potential tax, on December 30, 2014, the Company paid a one-time special cash dividend of $2.75 per common share (“Special Cash Dividend”) along with the fourth quarter 2014 regular dividend of $0.50 per common share. Holders of common partnership units of the Operating Partnership also received the same distribution on December 30, 2014. The Board will continue to evaluate our dividend rate in light of our actual and projected taxable income, liquidity requirements and other circumstances, and there can be no assurance that the future dividends declared by our Board will not differ materially. PS has significant influence over us. As of December 31, 2015, PS owned 7.2 million shares of the Company’s common stock and 7.3 million common units of the Operating Partnership (100.0% of the common units not owned by the Company). Assuming issuance of the Company’s common stock upon redemption of its partnership units, PS would own 42.1% (or 14.5 million shares) of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock at December 31, 2015. In addition, the PS Business Parks name and logo are owned by PS and licensed to the Company under a non-exclusive, royalty-free license agreement. The license can be terminated by either party for any reason with six months written notice. Ronald L. Havner, Jr., the Company’s chairman, is also Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of PS. Gary E. Pruitt, an independent director of the Company is also a trustee of PS. Consequently, PS has the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing directors, changing our articles of incorporation, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions such as mergers, and all matters requiring the consent of the limited partners of the Operating Partnership. PS’s interest in such matters may differ from other shareholders. In addition, PS’s ownership may make it more difficult for another party to take over our Company without PS’s approval. 13 Table of Contents Provisions in our organizational documents may prevent changes in control. Our articles generally prohibit any person from owning more than 7% of our shares: Our articles of incorporation restrict the number of shares that may be owned by any “person,” and the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership contains an anti-takeover provision. No shareholder (other than PS and certain other specified shareholders) may own more than 7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, unless our Board waives this limitation. We imposed this limitation to avoid, to the extent possible, a concentration of ownership that might jeopardize our ability to qualify as a REIT. This limitation, however, also makes a change of control much more difficult (if not impossible) even if it may be favorable to our public shareholders. These provisions will prevent future takeover attempts not supported by PS even if a majority of our public shareholders consider it to be in their best interests as they would receive a premium for their shares over market value or for other reasons. Our Board can set the terms of certain securities without shareholder approval: Our Board is authorized, without shareholder approval, to issue up to 50.0 million shares of preferred stock and up to 100.0 million shares of equity stock, in each case in one or more series. Our Board has the right to set the terms of each of these series of stock. Consequently, the Board could set the terms of a series of stock that could make it difficult (if not impossible) for another party to take over our Company even if it might be favorable to our public shareholders. Our articles of incorporation also contain other provisions that could have the same effect. We can also cause our Operating Partnership to issue additional interests for cash or in exchange for property. The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership restricts mergers: The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership generally provides that we may not merge or engage in a similar transaction unless the limited partners of our Operating Partnership are entitled to receive the same proportionate payments as our shareholders. In addition, we have agreed not to merge unless the merger would have been approved had the limited partners been able to vote together with our shareholders, which has the effect of increasing PS’s influence over us due to PS’s ownership of operating partnership units. These provisions may make it more difficult for us to merge with another entity. The interests of limited partners of our Operating Partnership may conflict with the interests of our common stockholders. Limited partners of our Operating Partnership, including PS, have the right to vote on certain changes to the partnership agreement. They may vote in a way that is against the interests of our shareholders. Also, as general partner of our Operating Partnership, we are required to protect the interests of the limited partners of the Operating Partnership. The interests of the limited partners and of our shareholders may differ. We depend on external sources of capital to grow our Company. We are generally required under the Code to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary building and tenant improvements, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we may need to rely on third-party sources of capital to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all. Access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on general market conditions, the market’s perception of our growth potential, our current and expected future earnings, our cash flow, and the market price per share of our common stock. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy any debt service obligations, or make cash distributions to shareholders. We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”), as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial statements. 14 Table of Contents There can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as recently adopted legislation that expands health care coverage costs or facilitates union activity or federal legislative proposals to otherwise increase operating costs. Terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results. Further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. Such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall. In addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the U.S. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results. Holders of depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000 of a share of our outstanding preferred stock, have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock. Our shares of preferred stock are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common stock. Upon our voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, before any payment is made to holders of our common stock, shares of our preferred stock are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (or $25.00 per depositary share) plus any accrued and unpaid distributions. This will reduce the remaining amount of our assets, if any, available to distribute to holders of our common stock. In addition, our preferred stockholders have the right to elect two additional directors to our Board whenever dividends are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive. Future issuances by us of shares of our common stock may be dilutive to existing stockholders, and future sales of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market (either by us or by PS), or issuances of shares of common stock in connection with redemptions of common units of our Operating Partnership, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company completed a public offering of its common stock and may seek to engage in such offerings in the future. Offerings of common stock, including by us in connection with portfolio or other property acquisitions or by PS in secondary offerings, and the issuance of common units of the Operating Partnership in exchange for shares of common stock, could have an adverse effect on the market price of the shares of our common stock. We rely on technology in our operations and failures, inadequacies or interruptions to our service could harm our business. The execution of our business strategy is heavily dependent on the use of technologies and systems, including the Internet, to access, store, transmit, deliver and manage information and processes. Although we believe we have taken commercially reasonable steps to protect the security of our systems, there can be no assurance that such security measures will prevent failures, inadequacies or interruptions in system services, or that system security will not be breached. Disruptions in service, system shutdowns and security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 