Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains or incorporates by reference statements concerning our future results and performance and other matters that are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industry’s results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Examples of other forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this report include statements regarding: • the effects of current and future worldwide economic conditions and demand for oil and natural gas and seismic equipment and services; • the on-going effects and aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico on regulatory requirements affecting us and our customers and on demand for seismic equipment and services; • future benefits to be derived from our INOVA Geophysical joint venture; • a continuation in the future of increased capital expenditures for seismic spending; • the expected outcome of litigation and other claims against us; • the timing of anticipated sales; • future levels of spending by our customers; • future oil and gas commodity prices; • expected net revenues, income from operations and net income; • expected gross margins for our products and services; • future benefits to our customers to be derived from new products and services; • future growth rates for our products and services; • the degree and rate of future market acceptance of our new products and services; 17 Table of Contents • our expectations regarding oil and gas exploration and production companies and contractor end-users purchasing our more technologically-advanced products and services; • anticipated timing and success of commercialization and capabilities of products and services under development and start-up costs associated with their development; • expected improved operational efficiencies from our full-wave digital products and services; • future cash needs and future availability of cash to fund our operations and pay our obligations; • potential future acquisitions; • future levels of capital expenditures; • our ability to maintain our costs at consistent percentages of our revenues in the future; • future demand for seismic equipment and services; • future seismic industry fundamentals; • future opportunities for new products and projected research and development expenses; • success in integrating our acquired businesses; • sufficient future profits to fully utilize our net operating losses; • future compliance with our debt financial covenants; • expectations regarding realization of deferred tax assets; and • anticipated results regarding accounting estimates we make. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. Our results of operations can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we make or by risks and uncertainties known or unknown to us. Therefore, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of the forward-looking statements. Actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations and assumptions. While we cannot identify all of the factors that may cause actual results to vary from our expectations, we believe the following factors should be considered carefully: Our INOVA Geophysical Joint Venture with BGP involves numerous risks. Our INOVA Geophysical joint venture with BGP is focused on designing, engineering, manufacturing, research and development, sales and marketing and field support of land-based equipment used in seismic data acquisition for the oil and gas industry. Excluded from the scope of the joint venture’s business are the analog sensor businesses of our company and BGP and the businesses of certain companies in which BGP or we are currently a minority owner. In addition to these excluded businesses, all of our other businesses — including our Systems and Software segments and our Solutions division, which includes our Imaging Solutions, Integrated Seismic Solutions (ISS) and BasinSPAN and seismic data library businesses — remain owned and operated by us and do not comprise a part of the joint venture. The INOVA Geophysical joint venture involves the integration of multiple product lines and business models from us and BGP that previously have operated independently. This has been and will continue to be a complex and time consuming process. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the expected benefits of the joint venture. The INOVA Geophysical joint venture and future joint ventures or acquisitions that we complete may result in unexpected costs, expenses, and liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may encounter difficulties in developing and expanding the business of INOVA Geophysical, funding any future capital contributions to the joint venture, exercising influence over the management and activities of the joint venture, quality control concerns regarding joint venture products and services and potential conflicts of interest with the joint venture and our joint venture partner. Any inability to meet our obligations as a joint venture partner under the joint venture agreement could result in our being 18 Table of Contents subject to penalties and reduced percentage interests in the joint venture for our company. Also, we could be disadvantaged in the event of disputes and controversies with our joint venture partner, since our joint venture partner is a relatively significant customer of our products and services and future products and services of the joint venture. The joint venture is also subject to, and exposes us to, various additional risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. These risks include the following: • increased costs associated with the integration and operation of the new business and new technologies and the management of geographically dispersed operations; • risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies (including incorporating BGP’s land seismic equipment with our existing land seismic imaging product lines that were contributed to the joint venture), operations, sites, and personnel; • difficulties in retaining and integrating key technical, sales and marketing personnel and the possible loss of such employees and costs associated with their loss; • difficulties associated with preserving relationships with our customers, partners and vendors; • risks that any technology developed by the joint venture may not perform as well as we had anticipated; • the diversion of management’s attention and other resources from other business operations and related concerns; • the potential inability to replicate operating efficiencies in the joint venture’s operations; • potential impairments of goodwill and intangible assets; • the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of the integration of management personnel from different companies; • the divergence of our interests from BGP’s interests in the future, disagreements with BGP on ongoing manufacturing, research and development and operational activities, or the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the joint venture; • the terms of our joint venture arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable to us; • we currently own 49% of the total equity interests in INOVA Geophysical, so there are certain decisions affecting the business of the joint venture that we cannot control or influence; • we may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, cost savings or other benefits that we expect from the joint venture; • the joint venture’s cash flows may be inadequate to fund its capital requirements, thereby requiring additional contributions to the capital of the joint venture by us and by BGP; • joint venture profits and cash flows may prove inadequate to fund cash dividends from the joint venture to the joint venture partners; and • the joint venture may experience difficulties and delays in ramping up production of the joint venture’s products. If the INOVA Geophysical joint venture is not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be adversely affected. In addition, the terms of the joint venture’s governing instruments and the agreements regarding BGP’s investment in our company contain a number of restrictive provisions affecting ION. For example, an investors’ rights agreement grants pre-emptive rights to BGP with respect to certain future issuances of our stock. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to quickly raise funds through a future issuance of 19 Table of Contents our securities, and could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of our company that our stockholders may otherwise consider to be favorable. We are subject to intense competition, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or to maintain our prices at profitable levels. Many of our sales are obtained through a competitive bidding process, which is standard for our industry. Competitive factors in recent years have included price, technological expertise, and a reputation for quality, safety and dependability. While no single company competes with us in all of our segments, we are subject to intense competition in each of our segments. New entrants in many of the markets in which certain of our products and services are currently strong should be expected. See Item 1. “Business — Competition.” We compete with companies that are larger than we are in terms of revenues, number of processing locations and sales and marketing resources. A few of our competitors have a competitive advantage in being part of an affiliated seismic contractor company. In addition, we compete with major service providers and government-sponsored enterprises and affiliates. Some of our competitors conduct seismic data acquisition operations as part of their regular business, which we do not, and have greater financial and other resources than we do. These and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, as well as changes in government regulations. In addition, any excess supply of products and services in the seismic services market could apply downward pressure on prices for our products and services. The negative effects of the competitive environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to obtain broad intellectual property protection for our current and future products and we may become involved in intellectual property disputes. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies. We believe that the technological and creative skill of our employees, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are the foundations of our competitive advantage. Although we have a considerable portfolio of patents, copyrights, and trademarks, these property rights offer us only limited protection. Our competitors may attempt to copy aspects of our products despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, or may design around the proprietary features of our products. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult, and we are unable to determine the extent to which such use occurs. Our difficulties are compounded in certain foreign countries where the laws do not offer as much protection for proprietary rights as the laws of the United States. Third parties inquire and claim from time to time that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Many of our competitors own their own extensive global portfolio of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property to protect their proprietary technologies. We believe that we have in place appropriate procedures and safeguards to help ensure that we do not violate a third party’s intellectual property rights. However, no set of procedures and safeguards is infallible. We may unknowingly and inadvertently take action that is inconsistent with a third party’s intellectual property rights, despite our efforts to do otherwise. Any such claims from third parties, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, result in injunctions, require product modifications, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such claims could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Much of our litigation in recent years have involved disputes over our and others’ rights to technology. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Our stock price has been volatile from time to time. It declined precipitously during portions of 2008 through 2010, and could decline again. The securities markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility in recent years. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may 20 Table of Contents continue to experience significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects or those of companies in our industry. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • factors influencing the levels of global oil and natural gas exploration and exploitation activities, such as a decline in prices for natural gas in North America or disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010; • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors or analysts consider comparable to us; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. To the extent that the price of our common stock remains at lower levels or it declines further, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced. In addition, further increases in our leverage may make it more difficult for us to access additional capital. These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans. The drilling moratorium in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the other regulatory initiatives undertaken in response to the Deepwater Horizon disaster and resulting oil spill in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, has adversely affected, and could adversely affect in the future, our customers and our business. In April 2010, the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico sank following a catastrophic explosion and fire, which resulted in the release of millions of gallons of hydrocarbons. In response to this incident, the Minerals Management Service (now known as the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, or “BOEMRE”) of the U.S. Department of the Interior issued a notice on May 30, 2010 implementing a six-month moratorium on certain drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The moratorium was lifted in October 2010, but the BOEMRE has issued and is expected to issue new safety and environmental guidelines or regulations for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and in other U.S. offshore locations. On December 1, 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior announced that the Atlantic Coast and the eastern Gulf of Mexico would be closed to offshore oil and gas drilling through 2017. In addition, as a result of these changes, the permitting process for exploration and development activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico has slowed considerably, resulting in very limited levels of activity there. These new safety and environmental regulations will expose our customers, and could expose us, to significant additional costs and liabilities. In addition, these and any such similar future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions that may adversely affect the financial health of our customers or decrease the demand for our services. It is not possible to estimate whether or when drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico will return to normal activity levels, due to uncertainties surrounding the timing for the issuance of drilling permits by the U.S. Department of Interior and new regulations related to drilling operations. Although it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of the moratorium or any new guidelines, regulations or legislation, a prolonged suspension of drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico and other areas, new regulations and increased liability for companies operating in this sector would adversely affect many of our customers who operate in the Gulf. This could, in turn, adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, particularly regarding sales of our marine seismic equipment and our Solutions’ segment’s survey and processing activities with respect to locations in the Gulf of Mexico. In fact, this incident negatively impacted our Solutions segment during the second quarter of 2010 by our experiencing a reduction in new venture and multi-client seismic data library sales. Data processing activity in our Solutions segment was not similarly impacted by this incident during the second quarter of 2010, but could be adversely 21 Table of Contents impacted in 2011. The uncertainties that have resulted from the incident’s aftermath adversely affects us, our customers and other providers of equipment and services to E&P companies, due to the lack of visibility as to which companies will continue to be active in U.S. Gulf of Mexico deepwater exploration and development. As a result, we cannot currently predict the extent to which these events may adversely affect our future business, the extent and length of time that any such adverse impact will be felt. If we, our option holders or stockholders holding registration rights sell additional shares of our common stock in the future, the market price of our common stock could decline. Additionally, our outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of our common stock. The conversion of the Series D Preferred Stock and exercise of our stock options could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Sales in the open market of the shares of common stock acquired upon such conversion or exercises may have the effect of reducing the then-current market price for our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market in the future, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of February 18, 2011, we had 153,028,861 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are available for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations or delivery of a prospectus. At February 18, 2011, we had outstanding stock options to purchase up to 7,574,842 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $7.45 per share. We also had, as of that date, 977,178 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards. As of February 18, 2011, Fletcher International, Ltd., the holder of our Series D Preferred Stock, held 22,000 shares of our Series D-1 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and 5,000 shares of our Series D-2 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. Under the terms of the agreement with Fletcher by which it purchased the Series D Preferred Stock, Fletcher has the ability to sell, under currently effective registration statements, the shares of our common stock acquired by it upon conversion of its remaining shares of Series D Preferred Stock. The shares of our Series D Preferred Stock held by Fletcher as of February 18, 2011 are convertible into 6,065,075 shares of our common stock. The conversion of our outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Sales in the public market of shares of common stock issued upon conversion would likely apply downward pressure on prevailing market prices of our common stock. The conversion price of our outstanding Series D Preferred Stock is also subject to certain customary anti-dilution adjustments. For additional information regarding the terms of our Series D Preferred Stock, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We currently have ongoing litigation with Fletcher in Delaware regarding issues involving our Series D Preferred Stock. For more information regarding our litigation with Fletcher, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Shares of our common stock are also subject to certain demand and piggyback registration rights held by Laitram, L.L.C. We also may enter into additional registration rights agreements in the future in connection with any subsequent acquisitions or securities transactions we may undertake. Any sales of our common stock under these registration rights arrangements with Laitram or other stockholders could be negatively perceived in the trading markets and negatively affect the price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public market under these arrangements, or the expectation of such sales, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. A depressed economic and credit environment and lower natural gas prices could have an adverse effect on customer demand for certain of our products and services, which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial condition, our ability to borrow and our stock price. Global market and economic conditions weakened significantly beginning in mid-2008. The global recession contributed to weakened demand and lower prices for natural gas on a worldwide basis, which reduced the levels of exploration for natural gas. Historically, demand for our products and services has been 22 Table of Contents sensitive to the level of exploration spending by E&P companies and geophysical contractors. The demand for our products and services will be reduced if exploration expenditures remain low. During periods of reduced levels of exploration for oil and natural gas, there have been oversupplies of seismic data and downward pricing pressures on our seismic products and services, which in turn, have limited our ability to meet sales objectives and maintain profit margins for our products and services. In the past, these then-prevailing industry conditions have had the effect of reducing our revenues and operating margins. The markets for oil and gas historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. Turmoil or uncertainty in the credit markets and its potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings under either existing or new debt facilities in the public or private markets and on terms we believe to be reasonable. Likewise, there can be no assurance that our customers will be able to borrow money on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, which could have a negative impact on their demand for our products and impair their ability to pay us for our products and services on a timely basis, or at all. Our sales are affected by interest rate fluctuations and the availability of liquidity, and we would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates or liquidity constraints. Rising interest rates may also make certain alternative products and services provided by our competitors more attractive to customers, which could lead to a decline in demand for our products and services. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. It is difficult to predict how long the economic slowdown will persist, whether it will deteriorate further, and which of our products and services will be adversely affected. We may have further impairment losses if events or changes in circumstances occur which reduce the fair value of an asset below its carrying amount. As a result, these conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and we may be subject to increased disputes and litigation because of these events and issues. Stock markets, in general, have experienced in recent years, and may continue to experience, significant price and volume volatility, and the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. If capital expenditures for E&P companies remain at reduced levels compared to prior periods, the demand for our products and services may remain weak and our results of operations will be adversely affected. Demand for our products and services depends upon the level of spending by E&P companies and seismic contractors for exploration and development activities, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices. Spending on products and services such as those we provide our customers are of a highly discretionary nature and subject to rapid and material change. Any significant decline in oil and gas related spending on behalf of our customers could cause alterations in our capital spending plans, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions or delays in payment, or non-payment of amounts that are owed to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to continue to satisfy all of the covenants in our loan agreements. Additionally, increases in oil and gas prices may not increase demand for our products and services or otherwise have a positive effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Oil and gas companies’ willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which our management has no control, such as: • the supply of and demand for oil and gas; • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the expected rates of declining current production; • the discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves; 23 Table of Contents • weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area, as well as less severe inclement weather that can preclude or delay seismic data acquisition; • domestic and worldwide economic conditions; • political instability in oil and gas producing countries; • technical advances affecting energy consumption; • government policies regarding the exploration, production and development of oil and gas reserves; • the ability of oil and gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing; and • merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas companies and seismic contractors. Many of our products contain more advanced technologies than certain products that our competition offer, and these products may tend to be, for that reason, more expensive than products of our competitors, thereby giving them a pricing advantage. Although we believe that the long-term trend is favorable, the level of oil and gas exploration and production activity has been volatile in recent years. Previously forecasted trends in oil and gas exploration and development activities may not continue and demand for our products and services may not reflect the level of activity in the industry. Any prolonged substantial reduction in oil and gas prices would likely affect oil and gas production levels and therefore adversely affect demand for the products and services we provide. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from foreign operations and sales, which pose additional risks. Sales to customers outside of North America accounted for approximately 60% of our consolidated net revenues for 2010, and we believe that export sales will remain a significant percentage of our revenue. U.S. export restrictions affect the types and specifications of products we can export. Additionally, to complete certain sales, U.S. laws may require us to obtain export licenses, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulty in obtaining these licenses. Like many energy service companies, we have operations in and sales into certain international areas, including parts of the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific and the Commonwealth of Independent States, that are subject to risks of war, political disruption (such as the recent political turmoil in Egypt), civil disturbance, political corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the U.S. government may deem to sponsor terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. Our sales or operations may become restricted or prohibited in any country in which the foregoing risks occur. In particular, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in the following events, which in turn, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations: • disruption of oil and natural gas E&P activities; • restriction of the movement and exchange of funds; • inhibition of our ability to collect receivables; • enactment of additional or stricter U.S. government or international sanctions; • limitation of our access to markets for periods of time; • expropriation and nationalization of assets of our company or those of our customers; • political and economic instability, which may include armed conflict and civil disturbance; • currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; and • governmental actions that may result in the deprivation of our contractual rights. 24 Table of Contents Our international operations and sales increase our exposure to other countries’ restrictive tariff regulations, other import/export restrictions and customer credit risk. In addition, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period, and we are subject to seasonality factors. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations from period to period as a result of new product or service introductions, the timing of significant expenses in connection with customer orders, unrealized sales, levels of research and development activities in different periods, the product mix sold, and the seasonality of our business. Because many of our products feature a high sales price and are technologically complex, we generally have experienced long sales cycles for these products and historically incur significant expense at the beginning of these cycles for component parts and other inventory necessary to manufacture a product in anticipation of a future sale, which may not ultimately occur. In addition, the revenues from our sales can vary widely from period to period due to changes in customer requirements and demand. These factors can create fluctuations in our net revenues and results of operations from period to period. Variability in our overall gross margins for any period, which depend on the percentages of higher-margin and lower-margin products and services sold in that period, compounds these uncertainties. As a result, if net revenues or gross margins fall below expectations, our results of operations and financial condition will likely be adversely affected. Additionally, our business can be seasonal in nature, with strongest demand typically in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Customer budgeting cycles at times result in higher spending activity levels by our customers at different points of the year. While the fourth quarter of 2010 was strong, the fourth quarter of 2009 was not as strong as seen historically because the typical discretionary spending that normally occurs during the fourth quarter was not realized. Due to the relatively high sales price of many of our products and seismic data libraries and relatively low unit sales volume, our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated from period to period due to the timing of orders and shipments and the mix of products and services sold. This uneven pattern makes financial predictions for any given period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places challenges on our inventory management. Delays caused by factors beyond our control, such as the granting of permits for seismic surveys by third parties, the effect from disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico and the availability and equipping of marine vessels, can affect our Solutions segment’s revenues from its processing and ISS services from period to period. Also, delays in ordering products or in shipping or delivering products in a given period could significantly affect our results of operations for that period. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause greater volatility in the market price of our common stock. We invest significant sums of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for our Solutions’ multi-client data library. We invest significant amounts in acquiring and processing new seismic data to add to our Solutions’ multi-client data library. A majority of these investments are funded by our customers, while the remainder is recovered through future data licensing fees. In 2010, we invested $64.4 million in our multi-client data library. Our customers generally commit to licensing the data prior to our initiating a new data library acquisition program. However, the aggregate amounts of future licensing fees for this data are sometimes uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, including the market prices of oil and gas, customer demand for seismic data in the library, and the availability of similar data from competitors. For example, the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010 adversely affected our library sales in the second quarter of 2010; likewise, it is very possible that our processing activities could be affected by the continued slow pace of exploration and development activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. 25 Table of Contents By making these investments in acquiring and processing new seismic data for our Solutions’ multi-client library, we are exposed to the following risks: • We may not fully recover our costs of acquiring and processing seismic data through future sales. The ultimate amounts involved in these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. • The timing of these sales is unpredictable and can vary greatly from period to period. The costs of each survey are capitalized and then amortized as a percentage of sales and/or over the expected useful life of the data. This amortization will affect our earnings and, when combined with the sporadic nature of sales, will result in increased earnings volatility. • Regulatory changes that affect companies’ ability to drill, either generally or in a specific location where we have acquired seismic data, could materially adversely affect the value of the seismic data contained in our library. Technology changes could also make existing data sets obsolete. Additionally, each of our individual surveys has a limited book life based on its location and oil and gas companies’ interest in prospecting for reserves in such location, so a particular survey may be subject to a significant decline in value beyond our initial estimates. • The value of our multi-client data could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities. • The cost estimates upon which we base our pre-commitments of funding could be wrong. The result could be losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These pre-commitments of funding are subject to the creditworthiness of our clients. In the event that a client refuses or is unable to pay its commitment, we could incur a substantial loss on that project. • As part of our asset-light strategy, we routinely charter vessels from third-party vendors to acquire seismic data for our multi-client business. As a result, our cost to acquire our multi-client data could significantly increase if vessel charter prices rise materially. Any reduction in the market value of such data will require us to write down its recorded value, which could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations. Goodwill and intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions are subject to impairment evaluations and, as a result, we could be required to write-off additional goodwill and intangible assets, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) Topic 350, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (ASC 350), we are required to compare the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets (when certain impairment indicators under ASC 350 are present) to their carrying amount. If the fair value of such goodwill or intangible assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of these assets within the reporting units is less than their carrying value. In 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $252.2 million related to our goodwill and intangible assets and in 2009 we recorded an impairment charge of $38.0 million related to our intangible assets. Any further reduction in or impairment of the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets will result in additional charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. At December 31, 2010, our goodwill and other intangible asset balances were $51.3 million and $20.3 million, respectively. Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues from international sales, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include 26 Table of Contents components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. Through our subsidiaries, we operate in a wide variety of jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, China, Canada, the Netherlands, Brazil, Russia, the United Arab Emirates and other countries. Certain of these countries have experienced economic problems and uncertainties from time to time. To the extent that world events or economic conditions negatively affect our future sales to customers in these and other regions of the world, or the collectability of receivables, our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition may be adversely affected. We currently require customers in certain higher risk countries to provide their own financing. In some cases, we have assisted our customers in organizing international financing and export-import credit guarantees provided by the United States government. We do not currently extend long-term credit through notes to companies in countries we consider to be too risky from a credit risk perspective. A majority of our foreign net working capital is within the United Kingdom. The subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and in other countries receive their income and pay their expenses primarily in their local currencies. To the extent that transactions of these subsidiaries are settled in their local currencies, a devaluation of those currencies versus the U.S. dollar could reduce the contribution from these subsidiaries to our consolidated results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. For financial reporting purposes, such depreciation will negatively affect our reported results of operations since earnings denominated in foreign currencies that are converted to U.S. dollars are stated at a decreased value. In addition, since we participate in competitive bids for sales of certain of our products and services that are denominated in U.S. dollars, a depreciation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could harm our competitive position relative to other companies. While we have employed economic cash flow and fair value hedges designed to minimize the risks associated with these exchange rate fluctuations, the hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in the values of the currencies of countries in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations. As a technology-focused company, we are continually exposed to risks related to complex, highly technical products and services. Our customers often require demanding specifications for performance and reliability of our products and services. Because many of our products are complex and often use unique advanced components, processes, technologies, and techniques, undetected errors and design and manufacturing flaws may occur. Even though we attempt to assure that our systems are always reliable in the field, the many technical variables related to their operations can cause a combination of factors that can, and have from time to time, caused performance and service issues with certain of our products. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty, and replacement costs and may affect our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may adversely impact our results of operations. Despite our testing and quality assurance programs, undetected errors may not be discovered until the product is purchased and used by a customer in a variety of field conditions. If our customers deploy our new products and they do not work correctly, our relationship with our customers may be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our systems’ advanced and complex nature, we expect to experience occasional operational issues from time to time. Generally, until our products have been tested in the field under a wide variety of operational conditions, we cannot be certain that performance and service problems will not arise. In that case, market acceptance of our new products could be delayed and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The businesses of our Solutions and Software segments, being more concentrated in software, processing services, and proprietary technologies, have also exposed us to various risks that these technologies typically encounter, including the following: • future competition from more established companies entering the market; • technology obsolescence; • dependence upon continued growth of the market for seismic data processing; 27 Table of Contents • the rate of change in the markets for these segments’ technology and services; • research and development efforts not proving sufficient to keep up with changing market demands; • dependence on third-party software for inclusion in these segments’ products and services; • misappropriation of these segments’ technology by other companies; • alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property rights that could result in substantial additional costs; • difficulties inherent in forecasting sales for newly developed technologies or advancements in technologies; • recruiting, training, and retaining technically skilled personnel that could increase the costs for these segments, or limit their growth; and • the ability to maintain traditional margins for certain of their technology or services. We are exposed to risks relating to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Following the end of our third quarter of 2009, we discovered an error in revenue recognition of certain product revenues in connection with the delivery of a FireFly land seismic data acquisition system and related hardware and components in China, which we had recorded in revenues for the second quarter of 2009. On November 4, 2009, we announced that we were restating our unaudited consolidated financial statements as of and for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2009, as a result of this error. We had concluded that, as of June 30, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective because this error in revenue recognition necessitating the restatement of our second quarter 2009 results of operations constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This material weakness was remediated as of December 31, 2009. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, we may in the future identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have remediated the above material weakness, there can be no assurance that such controls will effectively prevent material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements in future periods. In addition, we may in the future identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely impact the accuracy and timeliness of our future reporting and reports and filings we make with the SEC. We rely on highly skilled personnel in our businesses, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our businesses. Competition for qualified personnel required for our data processing operations and our other segments’ businesses has intensified in recent years. Our growth has presented challenges to us to recruit, train, and retain our employees while managing the impact of potential wage inflation and the lack of available qualified labor in some markets where we operate. A well-trained, motivated and adequately-staffed work force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. If we do not effectively manage our transition into new products and services, our revenues may suffer. Products and services for the seismic industry are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new products and services, and improvement in price characteristics relative to product and service performance. Among the risks 28 Table of Contents associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, write-offs or write-downs of the carrying costs of inventory and raw materials associated with prior generation products, difficulty in predicting customer demand for new product and service offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification, evaluation of new products, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. The introduction of new products and services by our competitors also may result in delays in customer purchases and difficulty in predicting customer demand. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenues and margins may decline. Furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current product or service offerings, offsetting the benefit of a successful introduction. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new products and services in accordance with our revenue, margin, and cost estimations and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of the seismic industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services, and our future results of operations, may suffer. Technological change in the seismic industry requires us to make substantial research and development expenditures. The markets for our products and services are characterized by changing technology and new product introductions. We must invest substantial capital to develop and maintain a leading edge in technology, with no assurance that we will receive an adequate rate of return on those investments. If we are unable to develop and produce successfully and timely new and enhanced products and services, we will be unable to compete in the future and our business, our results of operations and our financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. The loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have traditionally relied on a relatively small number of significant customers. Consequently, our business is exposed to the risks related to customer concentration. No single customer represented 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for 2010, 2009 and 2008; however, our top five customers in total represented approximately 28%, 29% and 30%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues during those years. The loss of any of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, a relatively small number of customers has accounted for the majority of our net revenues in any period. During the last ten years, our traditional seismic contractor customers have been rapidly consolidating, thereby consolidating the demand for our products and services. The loss of any of our significant customers to further consolidation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our facilities could be damaged by hurricanes and other natural disasters, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our facilities are located in regions of the United States that are susceptible to damage from hurricanes and other weather events, and, during 2005, were impacted by hurricanes or other weather events. Our Systems segment leases 93,000-square feet of facilities located in Harahan, Louisiana, in the greater New Orleans metropolitan area. In late August 2005, we suspended operations at these facilities and evacuated and locked down the facilities in preparation for Hurricane Katrina. These facilities did not experience flooding or significant damage during or after the hurricane. However, because of employee evacuations, power failures and lack of related support services, utilities and infrastructure in the New Orleans area, we were unable to resume full operations at the facilities until late September 2005. In September 2008, we lost power and 29 Table of Contents related services for several days at our offices located in the Houston metropolitan area and in Harahan, Louisiana as a result of Hurricane Ike and Hurricane Gustav. Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact our facilities may negatively affect our financial position and operating results for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced production and product sales; costs associated with resuming production; reduced orders for our products from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; additional costs to purchase materials and supplies from outside suppliers; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance and an inability to retain necessary staff. To the extent that climate change increases the severity of hurricanes and other weather events, as some have suggested, it could worsen the severity of these negative effects on our financial position and operating results. Climate change regulations or legislation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas our clients intend to produce. More stringent regulations and laws relating to climate change and greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) may be adopted in the future and could reduce the demand for our products and services. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) officially concluded that atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and welfare because such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Consistent with its findings, the EPA has proposed or adopted various regulations under the Clean Air Act to address GHGs. Among other things, the EPA is limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from new cars and light duty trucks beginning with the 2012 model year. When those mobile source standards took effect on January 2, 2011, GHGs became categorized as regulated air pollutants. This revised status could trigger a variety of other Clean Air Act requirements, including construction and operating permit requirements for industrial plants and other stationary sources. In response to the Fiscal Year 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act, the EPA also has published a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large sources in the United States on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010. In a final rule published on November 30, 2010, the EPA extended those reporting requirements to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. At the same time, the U.S. Congress has been considering a variety of new legislative proposals concerning GHGs. In June 2009, for example, the House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, which, if it had been enacted, would have established an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs so as to reduce U.S. emissions over time by approximately 80%. As an alternative, some proponents of GHG controls have advocated mandating a national “clean energy” standard. In 2011, President Obama encouraged Congress to adopt a goal of generating 80% of U.S. electricity from “clean energy” by 2035 with credit for renewable and nuclear power and partial credit for clean coal and “efficient natural gas”; the President also proposed ending tax breaks for the oil industry. Because of the lack of any comprehensive federal legislative program expressly addressing GHGs, there currently is uncertainty as to how and when additional federal regulation of GHGs might take place and as to whether the EPA should continue with its existing regulations in the absence of more specific Congressional direction. A number of states, individually and regionally, have implemented or are considering their own GHG regulatory programs. These initiatives have included so-called cap-and-trade programs, under which overall GHG emissions are limited and GHG emissions allowances are then allocated and sold, clean energy standards, and other regulatory requirements. New climate change and related clean energy regulatory initiatives could result in our customers’ incurring material compliance costs, e.g., by being required to purchase or to surrender allowances for GHGs resulting from their operations, or adversely affect the marketability of the oil and natural gas that our customers produce. The impact of such future programs cannot be predicted, but we do not expect our operations to be affected any differently than other similarly situated domestic competitors. 30 Table of Contents Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact our revenues by decreasing the demand for our seismic acquisition services. Hydraulic fracturing is a process used by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells whereby water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production. Due to concerns that hydraulic fracturing may adversely affect drinking water supplies, the EPA recently announced a plan to conduct a comprehensive research study to investigate any potential adverse impact that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health. The initial study results are expected to be available in late 2012. The U.S. Department of the Interior also has announced plans to develop a new policy for hydraulic fracturing on public lands that would require the disclosure of chemicals used in the process. Aside from these federal initiatives, several states have moved to require disclosure of fracturing fluid components or otherwise to regulate their use more closely. In certain areas of the country, new drilling permits for hydraulic fracturing have been put on hold pending development of additional standards. Adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the demand for our seismic data acquisition services. We have outsourcing arrangements with third parties to manufacture some of our products. If these third party suppliers fail to deliver quality products or components at reasonable prices on a timely basis, we may alienate some of our customers and our revenues, profitability, and cash flow may decline. Additionally, current global economic conditions could have a negative impact on our suppliers, causing a disruption in our vendor supplies. A disruption in vendor supplies may adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing processes require a high volume of quality components. We have increased our use of contract manufacturers as an alternative to our own manufacturing of products. We have outsourced the manufacturing of our towed marine streamers, our redeployable ocean bottom cables, our MEMS components, and various components of VectorSeis Ocean. Certain components used by us are currently provided by only one supplier. If, in implementing any outsource initiative, we are unable to identify contract manufacturers willing to contract with us on competitive terms and to devote adequate resources to fulfill their obligations to us or if we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our products and services may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules. We also may experience supply interruptions, cost escalations, and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement, or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers. Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key components, increases in component costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. If any of these risks are realized, our revenues, profitability, and cash flows may decline. In addition, as we come to rely more heavily on contract manufacturers, we may have fewer personnel resources with expertise to manage problems that may arise from these third-party arrangements. Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by current global economic conditions. If certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies to us or a significant increase in the price of such supplies and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. Under some of our outsourcing arrangements, our manufacturing outsourcers purchase agreed-upon inventory levels to meet our forecasted demand. Our manufacturing plans and inventory levels are generally based on sales forecasts. If demand proves to be less than we originally forecasted and we cancel our 31 Table of Contents committed purchase orders, our outsourcers generally will have the right to require us to purchase inventory which they had purchased on our behalf. Should we be required to purchase inventory under these terms, we may be required to hold inventory that we may never utilize. Our operations, and the operations of our customers, are subject to numerous government regulations, which could adversely limit our operating flexibility. Our operations are subject to laws, regulations, government policies, and product certification requirements worldwide. Changes in such laws, regulations, policies or requirements could affect the demand for our products or result in the need to modify products, which may involve substantial costs or delays in sales and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Our export activities are also subject to extensive and evolving trade regulations. Certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions, and embargoes imposed by the United States government. These restrictions, sanctions, and embargoes also prohibit or limit us from participating in certain business activities in those countries. Our operations are subject to numerous local, state, and federal laws and regulations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties, and the protection of the environment. These laws have been changed frequently in the past, and there can be no assurance that future changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our customers’ operations are also significantly impacted by laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and endangered species. Consequently, changes in governmental regulations applicable to our customers may reduce demand for our products and services. To the extent that our customers’ operations are disrupted by future laws and regulations, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, our stockholders rights plan, the terms of our Series D Preferred Stock and contractual requirements under our agreements with Fletcher and BGP contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, our stockholders rights plan, the terms of our Series D Preferred Stock, our agreement with Fletcher and our investor rights agreement with BGP may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • providing for a dividend on our common stock, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” which can be triggered after a person or group acquires, obtains the right to acquire or commences a tender or exchange offer to acquire, 20% or more of our outstanding common stock; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; • requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • requiring an acquiring party to assume all of our obligations under our agreement with Fletcher and the terms of the Series D Preferred Stock set forth in our certificates of rights and designations for those series, including the dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and share registration provisions. In addition, the terms of our INOVA Geophysical joint venture with BGP and BGP’s investment in our company contain a number of provisions, such as certain pre-emptive rights granted to BGP with respect to 32 Table of Contents certain future issuances of our stock, that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of our company that our stockholders may otherwise consider to be favorable. Note: The foregoing factors pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 should not be construed as exhaustive. In addition to the foregoing, we wish to refer readers to other factors discussed elsewhere in this report as well as other filings and reports with the SEC for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect the events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 