Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains or incorporates by reference statements concerning our future results and performance and other matters that are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industry’s results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Examples of other forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this report include statements regarding: • our expectations for future financing and the refinancing of our existing indebtedness; • the expected effects of current and future worldwide economic conditions and demand for oil and natural gas; • future levels of spending by our customers; • compliance with our debt financial covenants; • expected net revenues, income from operations and net income; • expected gross margins for our products and services; • future benefits to our customers to be derived from new products and services, such as Scorpion and FireFly; • future growth rates for certain of our products and services; • future sales to our significant customers; • our ability to continue to leverage our costs by growing our revenues and earnings; • the degree and rate of future market acceptance of our new products and services; • expectations regarding future mix of business and future asset recoveries; • the timing of anticipated sales; • anticipated timing and success of commercialization and capabilities of products and services under development and start- up costs associated with their development; • expected improved operational efficiencies from our full-wave digital products and services; • potential future acquisitions; • future levels of capital expenditures; • future cash needs and future sources of cash, including availability under our revolving line of credit facility; • our ability to maintain our costs at consistent percentages of our revenues in the future; • the outcome of pending or threatened disputes and other contingencies; • future demand for seismic equipment and services; • future seismic industry fundamentals; 16 Table of Contents • the adequacy of our future liquidity and capital resources; • future oil and gas commodity prices; • future opportunities for new products and projected research and development expenses; • success in integrating our acquired businesses; • expectations regarding realization of deferred tax assets; and • anticipated results regarding accounting estimates we make. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. Our results of operations can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we make or by risks and uncertainties known or unknown to us. Therefore, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of the forward-looking statements. Actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations and assumptions. While we cannot identify all of the factors that may cause actual results to vary from our expectations, we believe the following factors should be considered carefully: The current economic and credit environment and lower oil and natural gas prices could have a continuing adverse affect on demand for certain of our products and services, our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial condition, our ability to borrow and our stock price. Commencing in late 2008, global market and economic conditions became, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. Concerns over energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to this increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a global recession. In the past, downturns in the U.S. economy have caused weakened demand and lower prices for oil and natural gas on a worldwide basis, which have tended to reduce the levels of exploration for oil and natural gas. Historically, demand for our products and services has been sensitive to the level of exploration spending by E&P companies and geophysical contractors; the demand for our products and services will be reduced if the level of exploration expenditures is reduced. During periods of reduced levels of exploration for oil and natural gas, there have been oversupplies of seismic data and downward pricing pressures on our seismic products and services, which in turn, have limited our ability to meet sales objectives and maintain profit margins for our products and services. In the past, these then-prevailing industry conditions have had the effect of reducing our revenues and operating margins. The markets for oil and gas historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. The recent turmoil in the credit markets and its potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings under either existing or new debt facilities in the public or private markets and on terms we believe to be reasonable. Continued weakness in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness in connection with the ARAM acquisition and to otherwise fund our operational requirements. Interest rates have fluctuated recently, have increased the costs of financing and will likely reduce our and our customers’ profits and expected returns on investment. Given the current credit environment, particularly the tightening of the credit markets, there can be no assurance that our customers will be able to borrow money on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, which could have a negative impact on their demand for our products and impair their ability to pay us for our products and services on a timely basis, or at all. Our sales are affected by interest rate fluctuations and the availability of liquidity, and we would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates or liquidity constraints. Rising interest rates may also make certain alternative products and services provided by our competitors more attractive to customers, which could lead to a decline in demand for our products and services. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic conditions will persist, whether they will deteriorate further, and which of our products and services will be adversely affected. We may have further impairment losses if events or changes in circumstances occur which reduce the fair value of an asset below its carrying amount. As a result, these conditions could adversely affect our 17 Table of Contents financial condition and results of operations, and we may be subject to increased disputes and litigation because of these events and issues. Stock markets, in general, have experienced in recent months, and continue to experience, significant price and volume volatility, and the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. This increased volatility, coupled with depressed economic conditions, could continue to have a depressing effect on the market price of our common stock. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness, and we will need to pay or refinance our existing indebtedness or incur additional indebtedness, which may adversely affect our operations. As a result of the ARAM acquisition, we have increased our indebtedness significantly. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding total indebtedness of approximately $291.9 million, including capital lease obligations. Total indebtedness on that date included $120.3 million in borrowings under five-year term indebtedness and $66.0 million in borrowings under our revolving credit facility, in each case incurred under our amended commercial banking credit facility (the “Amended Credit Facility”). We also had as of that date $40.8 million of indebtedness outstanding under a Bridge Loan Agreement, dated as of December 30, 2008, with Jefferies Finance LLC (“Jefferies”) as administrative agent, sole bookrunner, sole lead arranger and lender (the “Bridge Loan Agreement”), which indebtedness matures on January 31, 2010. In addition, we had $35.0 million of subordinated indebtedness outstanding under an amended and restated subordinated promissory note (the “Amended and Restated Subordinated Note”) that we issued to one of ARAM’s selling shareholders in exchange for a previous promissory note we had issued to that selling shareholder as part of the purchase price consideration for the acquisition of ARAM. As of December 31, 2008, we had available $34.0 million (without giving effect to $1.2 million of outstanding letters of credit) of additional revolving credit borrowing capacity under our Amended Credit Facility. However, as of February 23, 2009, we had available only $0.8 million of additional revolving credit borrowing capacity, which can be used only to fund further letters of credit under the Amended Credit Facility. In January 2009, Standard and Poor’s Rating Services downgraded our outlook from “stable” to “negative” due to expectations of a weakening seismic market. Our substantial levels of indebtedness and our other financial obligations increase the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due, in respect of our outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, competitive and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes on satisfactory terms, or at all; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for operations and any future business opportunities; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Amended Credit Facility, are at variable rates of interest; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limit our planning flexibility for, or ability to react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing. Although we currently believe we will maintain compliance with our covenants throughout 2009, there are certain scenarios where we could fall out of compliance with our financial covenants under our Amended Credit Facility and our Bridge Loan Agreement. 18 Table of Contents See Item 7. — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Our Current Debt Levels” and “ — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sources of Capital — Meeting our Liquidity Requirements.” If we fail to make any required payment under our Amended Credit Facility, the Bridge Loan Agreement or the Amended and Restated Subordinated Note, or if we fail to comply with any of the financial and operating covenants included in those debt instruments, we will be in default under their terms. The lenders under such facilities could then accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and foreclose upon our and our subsidiaries’ assets that may secure such indebtedness. Other creditors might then accelerate other indebtedness under the cross-default provisions in those agreements. If our creditors accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our debt obligations. Our ability to obtain any financing, including any additional debt financing, whether through the issuance of new debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions within our industry, credit ratings and numerous other factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us (or to negotiate extensions with our lenders on terms acceptable to us), it could, in addition to other negative effects, have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, ability to compete or ability to comply with regulatory requirements. Such defaults, if not rescinded or cured, would have a materially adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows. To comply with our indebtedness and other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash and will be required to satisfy certain debt financial covenants. Our ability to generate cash and satisfy debt covenants depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our acquisition debt, and to fund our working capital needs and planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Amended Credit Facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including our acquisition debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including our acquisition debt, on or before the maturity thereof. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of such indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, if for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we would be in default under the terms of our agreements governing our outstanding debt. If such a default were to occur, the lenders under the Amended Credit Facility could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Facility immediately due and payable, and the lenders would not be obligated to continue to advance funds to us. In addition, if such a default were to occur, our other indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. The Amended Credit Facility and other outstanding debt instruments to which we are a party impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking other actions. Subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, the Amended Credit Facility contains customary restrictions on our activities, including covenants that restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries from: • incurring additional indebtedness and issuing preferred stock; • creating liens on our assets; • making certain investments or restricted payments; • consolidating or merging with, or acquiring, another business; • selling or otherwise disposing of our assets; 19 Table of Contents • paying dividends and making other distributions with respect to capital stock, or repurchasing, redeeming or retiring capital stock or subordinated debt; and • entering into transactions with our affiliates. The Amended Credit Facility also contains covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios and minimum thresholds. For example, the Amended Credit Facility requires that we and our domestic subsidiaries (a) maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio in an amount equal to 1.50 to 1 for each fiscal quarter beginning in 2009, (b) not exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 2.25 to 1 for each fiscal quarter beginning in 2009, and (c) maintain a minimum tangible net worth of at least 80% of the our tangible net worth as of September 18, 2008 (the date that we completed our acquisition of ARAM), plus 50% of our consolidated net income for each quarter thereafter, and 80% of the proceeds from any mandatorily convertible notes and preferred and common stock issuances for each quarter thereafter. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Amended Credit Facility. We believe that, based on our 2009 operating plan and results to date in fiscal 2009, we will remain in compliance with the financial covenants during 2009. As with any operating plan, however, there are risks associated with our ability to execute our 2009 plan. In addition, our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, including further declines in E&P company and seismic contractor spending, significant write-downs of accounts receivable, changes in certain exchange rates and other factors. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and debt service capability. If we were not able to satisfy all of the financial covenants, we would need to seek to amend, or seek one or more waivers of, the covenants under the Amended Credit Facility. If we cannot satisfy the financial covenants and are unable to obtain waivers or amendments, the lenders could declare a default under the Amended Credit Facility. Any default under our Amended Credit Facility would allow the lenders under the facility the option to demand repayment of the indebtedness outstanding under the facility, and would allow certain other lenders to exercise their rights and remedies under cross-default provisions. If these lenders were to exercise their rights to accelerate the indebtedness outstanding, there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or otherwise repay any amounts that may become accelerated under the agreements. The acceleration of a significant portion of our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, and financial condition. The Bridge Loan Agreement contains terms that incorporate many of the same covenants from the Amended Credit Facility. In addition, the Amended and Restated Subordinated Note contains additional restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt. Any additional debt financing we obtain is likely to have similarly restrictive covenants. The restrictions in the Amended Credit Facility and our other debt instruments may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We also may incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under the Amended Credit Facility and our other debt instruments. An event of default under our debt agreements would permit the holders of such indebtedness to declare all amounts borrowed to be due and payable. Given the reduced budgets for capital expenditures by E&P companies, demand for our products and services and our results of operations will be adversely affected. Demand for our services depends upon the level of spending by E&P companies and seismic contractors for exploration and development activities, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices. Spending on products and services such as those we provide our customers are of a highly discretionary nature and subject to rapid and material change. Any significant decline in oil and gas related spending on behalf of our customers could cause alterations in our capital spending plans, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions or delays in payment, or non-payment of amounts that are owed to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to continue to satisfy all of the covenants in our loan agreements. Additionally, increases in oil and gas prices may not increase demand for our services or otherwise have a positive effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Oil and gas companies’ willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which our management has no control, such as: • the supply of and demand for oil and gas; 20 Table of Contents • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels for oil; • the expected rates of declining current production; • the discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves; • weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area, as well as less severe inclement weather that can preclude or delay seismic data acquisition; • domestic and worldwide economic conditions; • political instability in oil and gas producing countries; • technical advances affecting energy consumption; • government policies regarding the exploration, production and development of oil and gas reserves; • the ability of oil and gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing; and • merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas companies and seismic contractors. The level of oil and gas exploration and production activity has been volatile in recent years. Previously forecasted trends in oil and gas exploration and development activities may not continue and demand for our products and services may not reflect the level of activity in the industry. Any prolonged substantial reduction in oil and gas prices would likely affect oil and gas production levels and therefore adversely affect demand for the products and services we provide. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from foreign operations and sales, which pose additional risks. Sales to customers outside of North America accounted for approximately 60% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, and we believe that export sales will remain a significant percentage of our revenue. U.S. export restrictions affect the types and specifications of products we can export. Additionally, to complete certain sales, U.S. laws may require us to obtain export licenses, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulty in obtaining these licenses. Like many energy service companies, we have operations in and sales into certain international areas, including parts of the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific and the Commonwealth of Independent States, that are subject to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, political corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the U.S. government may deem to sponsor terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. Our sales or operations may become restricted or prohibited in any country in which the foregoing risks occur. In particular, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in the following events, which in turn, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations: • disruption of oil and natural gas E&P activities; • restriction of the movement and exchange of funds; • inhibition of our ability to collect receivables; • enactment of additional or stricter U.S. government or international sanctions; • limitation of our access to markets for periods of time; • expropriation and nationalization of our assets; 21 Table of Contents • political and economic instability, which may include armed conflict and civil disturbance; • currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; and • governmental actions that may result in the deprivation of our contractual rights. Our international operations and sales increase our exposure to other countries’ restrictive tariff regulations, other import/export restrictions and customer credit risk. In addition, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Each borrowing under our Amended Credit Facility will bear interest, at our option, at either an alternate base rate or a LIBOR-based rate. As of December 31, 2008, the $120.3 million in term loan indebtedness under the Amended Credit Facility accrued interest using the LIBOR-based interest rate of 6.02% per annum, while $66.0 million in total revolving credit indebtedness under the Amended Credit Facility accrued interest using the alternate base rate of 6.88% per annum. The average effective interest rate for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 under the LIBOR-based and alternate based rates was 5.7%. Assuming that no revolving indebtedness is repaid and that $66.0 million in revolving loans are outstanding, a 1.00% increase in the floating interest rate on the outstanding principal amount of the term loan indebtedness would result in increased interest expense of $0.7 million per year. Assuming that no term loan indebtedness is repaid and that $120.3 million in loans are outstanding, a 1.00% increase in the floating interest rate on the outstanding principal amount of the term loan indebtedness would result in increased interest expense of $1.2 million per year. Outstanding borrowings under our Bridge Loan Agreement will bear interest at either the one-month LIBOR rate plus 13.25% per annum or the alternate base rate plus 12.25%, if the LIBOR-based rate cannot be determined. The interest rates shall not be less than 15.0% per annum nor greater than 17.0% per annum. Additionally, we have agreed to pay the lender a non-refundable initial duration fee of 3.0% of the aggregate principal amount of the bridge loans outstanding (if any) on June 30, 2009 and a non-refundable additional duration fee of 2.0% of the aggregate principal amount of the bridge loans outstanding (if any) on September 30, 2009. Inclusive of these additional fees (and an upfront fee previously paid), the effective interest rate was 20.0% as of December 31, 2008. Assuming that no indebtedness under the Bridge Loan Agreement is repaid, a 1.00% increase in the effective floating interest rate on the outstanding principal amount would result in increased interest expense of $0.4 million per year. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average interest rate on our outstanding indebtedness of $291.9 million was 9.6%. Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues from international sales, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. Through our subsidiaries, we operate in a wide variety of jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, Canada, the Netherlands, China, Venezuela, India, Russia, the United Arab Emirates and other countries. Certain of these countries have experienced economic problems and uncertainties from time to time. To the extent that world events or economic conditions negatively affect our future sales to customers in these and other regions of the world, or the collectibility of receivables, our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition may be adversely affected. We currently require customers in certain higher risk countries to provide their own financing. In some cases, we have assisted our customers in organizing international financing and export-import credit guarantees provided by the United States government. We do not currently extend long-term credit through notes to companies in countries we consider to be too risky from a credit risk perspective. 22 Table of Contents A majority of our foreign net working capital is within the United Kingdom and Canada. The subsidiaries in those countries receive their income and pay their expenses primarily in pounds sterling (“GBP”) and Canadian dollars (“CAD”), respectively. To the extent that transactions of these subsidiaries are settled in GBP or CAD, a devaluation of these currencies versus the U.S. dollar could reduce the contribution from these subsidiaries to our consolidated results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. For financial reporting purposes, such depreciation will negatively affect our reported results of operations since GBP- and CAD-denominated earnings that are converted to U.S. dollars are stated at a decreased value. In addition, since we participate in competitive bids for sales of certain of our products and services that are denominated in U.S. dollars, a depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the GBP and CAD harms our competitive position against companies whose financial strength bears less correlation to the strength of the U.S. dollar. While we have employed economic cash flow and fair value hedges designed to minimize the risks associated with these exchange rate fluctuations, the hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in the values of the currencies of countries in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations. We may not gain rapid market acceptance for our full-wave digital products, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have spent considerable time and capital developing our full-wave equipment product lines that incorporate our VectorSeis, FireFly, Scorpion, and associated technologies. Because these products rely on a new digital sensor, our ability to sell these products will depend on acceptance of our digital sensor and technology solutions by geophysical contractors and E&P companies. If our customers do not believe that our digital sensor delivers higher quality data with greater operational efficiency, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. The introduction of new seismic technologies and products has traditionally involved long development cycles. Because our full-wave digital products incorporate new technologies, we have experienced slow market acceptance and market penetration for these products. For these reasons, we have continued to be unable to foresee and accurately predict future sales volumes, revenues, and margins for these new products from period to period with the certainty we have desired. See Item 7. — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period, and we are subject to seasonality factors. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations from period to period as a result of new product or service introductions, the timing of significant expenses in connection with customer orders, unrealized sales, levels of research and development activities in different periods, the product mix sold, and the seasonality of our business. Because many of our products feature a high sales price and are technologically complex, we generally have experienced long sales cycles for these products and historically incur significant expense at the beginning of these cycles for component parts and other inventory necessary to manufacture a product in anticipation of a future sale, which may not ultimately occur. In addition, the revenues from our sales can vary widely from period to period due to changes in customer requirements. These factors can create fluctuations in our net revenues and results of operations from period to period. Variability in our overall gross margins for any period, which depend on the percentages of higher-margin and lower-margin products and services sold in that period, compounds these uncertainties. As a result, if net revenues or gross margins fall below expectations, our results of operations and financial condition will likely be adversely affected. Additionally, our business can be seasonal in nature, with strongest demand typically in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Due to the relatively high sales price of many of our products and seismic data libraries and relatively low unit sales volume, our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated from period to period due to the timing of orders and shipments and the mix of products and services sold. This uneven pattern makes financial predictions for any given period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places challenges on our inventory management. Delays caused by factors beyond our control, such as the granting of permits for seismic surveys by third parties and the availability and equipping of marine vessels, can affect our ION Solutions division’s revenues from its processing and ISS services from period to period. Also, delays in ordering products or in shipping or delivering products in a given period could significantly affect our results of operations for that period. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause greater volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our outstanding shares of Series D-1 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series D-2 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Series D-3 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of our common stock. The conversion of these securities would result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, and sales in the open market of the shares of common stock acquired upon conversion may have the effect of reducing the then-current market prices for our common stock. 23 Table of Contents The conversion of our outstanding shares of Series D-1 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series D-2 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Series D-3 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (together, the “Series D Preferred Stock”) into shares of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Sales in the public market of shares of common stock issued upon conversion would likely apply downward pressure on prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the very existence of the outstanding shares of the Series D Preferred Stock represents potential issuances of common stock upon their conversion, and could represent potential sales into the market of our common stock to be acquired on conversion, which could also depress trading prices for our common stock. Technologies and businesses that we acquire (including those in connection with the ARAM acquisition) may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. Our acquisition of ARAM is part of our current business strategy, which is to seek new technologies, products and businesses to broaden the scope of our existing and planned product lines and technologies. This acquisition involves the integration of two companies that previously have operated independently, which is a complex and time consuming process. While we believe that the ARAM acquisition will complement our technologies and our general business strategy, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the expected benefit of the acquisition. This and future acquisitions may result in unexpected costs, expenses, and liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The ARAM acquisition and future acquisitions expose us to: • increased costs associated with the acquisition and operation of the new businesses or technologies and the management of geographically dispersed operations; • risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies (including incorporating ARAM’s land seismic acquisition products with our existing product lines), operations, sites, and personnel; • difficulties in retaining and integrating key technical, sales and marketing personnel and the possible loss of such employees and costs associated with their loss; • difficulties associated with preserving relationships with ARAM’s customers, partners and vendors; • risks that any technology we acquire may not perform as well as we had anticipated; • the diversion of management’s attention and other resources from existing business concerns; • the potential inability to replicate operating efficiencies in the acquired company’s operations; • potential impairments of goodwill and intangible assets; • the inability to generate revenues to offset associated acquisition costs; • the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new and inexperienced management personnel; and • the risk that acquired technologies do not provide us with the benefits we anticipated. Integration of the acquired businesses requires significant efforts from each entity, including coordinating existing business plans and research and development efforts. We may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, cost savings or other benefits that we expect from the acquisition. The process of combining an acquired business with our business could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company’s business and the loss of key personnel and distract management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of the combined companies. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses, our future results will be negatively impacted. 24 Table of Contents ARAM’s land data acquisition systems have been a direct competitor of our Scorpion land acquisition systems and their predecessors in recent years. The integration of the Scorpion and the ARAM land acquisition system product lines may prove to be difficult, involving issues concerning marketing strategies, product roadmaps, preservation of the existing bases of installed products and coordination of the different development and engineering teams. No prediction can be made as to the degree of success (if any) we may experience in the timely integration of these product lines. In addition, while the ARAM acquisition is consistent with our strategy to increase our market share in cable-based land acquisition systems, the acquisition will present challenges for us in terms of a modified roadmap for the further development of our Scorpion land acquisition system. Goodwill and other intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions are subject to mandatory annual impairment evaluations and as a result, we could be required to write-off additional goodwill and other intangible assets, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS 142), we are required to compare the fair value of our reporting units to their carrying amount on an annual basis to determine if there is potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill within the reporting units is less than its carrying value. At December 31, 2008, we evaluated our reporting units for potential impairment. Based upon our evaluation and given the current market conditions, we determined that approximately $242.2 million of goodwill related to our Land Imaging Systems (including ARAM) and ION Solutions reporting units was impaired. We recorded the expense as of December 31, 2008 and reduced the carrying amount of our goodwill. Any further reduction in or impairment of the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets will result in additional charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. We are exposed to risks related to complex, highly technical products. Our customers often require demanding specifications for product performance and reliability. Because many of our products are complex and often use unique advanced components, processes, technologies, and techniques, undetected errors and design and manufacturing flaws may occur. Even though we attempt to assure that our systems are always reliable in the field, the many technical variables related to their operations can cause a combination of factors that can, and have from time to time, caused performance and service issues with certain of our products. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty, and replacement costs and may affect our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may adversely impact our results of operations. Despite our testing and quality assurance programs, undetected errors may not be discovered until the product is purchased and used by a customer in a variety of field conditions. If our customers deploy our new products and they do not work correctly, our relationship with our customers may be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our systems’ advanced and complex nature, we expect to experience occasional operational issues from time to time. Generally, until our products have been tested in the field under a wide variety of operational conditions, we cannot be certain that performance and service problems will not arise. In that case, market acceptance of our new products could be delayed and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Reservoir Exploration Technology (RXT) has been a significant customer of our Marine Imaging Systems segment. A loss of business from this customer could adversely affect our sales and financial condition if RXT is not replaced by another customer or customers. In May 2007, we entered into a multi-year agreement with RXT under which they agreed to purchase a minimum of $160 million in VectorSeis Ocean (VSO) systems and related equipment through 2011. In addition, this agreement entitles us to receive a royalty of 2.1% of revenues generated by RXT through the use of all VSO equipment commencing in January 2008 until the expiration of the agreement. In turn, RXT has been granted exclusive rights to this product line through 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, $49.0 million, or 7.2%, and $60.9 million, or 8.5%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues, were attributable to marine equipment sales to RXT. The loss of RXT as a customer or a significant reduction in their equipment or systems needs could reduce our sales volumes and revenues and lessen our cash flows, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unless we can broaden our customer base for these marine products, we can give no assurances that the revenues and cash flows from RXT, if lost, can be replaced. To the extent that the 25 Table of Contents risks faced by RXT cause it to curtail its business activities or to make timely payments to its suppliers, we are subject to the same risks. We rely on highly skilled personnel in our businesses, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our businesses. Competition for qualified personnel required for our data processing operations and our other segments’ businesses has intensified in recent years. Our growth has presented challenges to us to recruit, train, and retain our employees while managing the impact of potential wage inflation and the lack of available qualified labor in some markets where we operate. A well-trained, motivated and adequately-staffed work force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. If we do not effectively manage our transitions into new products and services, our revenues may suffer. Products and services for the seismic industry are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new products and services, and improvement in price characteristics relative to product and service performance. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, write-offs or write-downs of the carrying costs of inventory and raw materials associated with prior generation products, difficulty in predicting customer demand for new product and service offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification, evaluation of new products, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. The introduction of new products and services by our competitors also may result in delays in customer purchases and difficulty in predicting customer demand. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenues and margins may decline. Furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of a successful introduction. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new products and services in accordance with our revenue, margin, and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of the seismic industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services, and our future results of operations, may suffer. Technological change in the seismic industry requires us to make substantial research and development expenditures. The markets for our products and services are characterized by changing technology and new product introductions. We must invest substantial capital to develop and maintain a leading edge in technology, with no assurance that we will receive an adequate rate of return on those investments. If we are unable to develop and produce successfully and timely new and enhanced products and services, we will be unable to compete in the future and our business, our results of operations and our financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We invest significant sums of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for our ION Solutions’ multi-client data library. We invest significant amounts in acquiring and processing new seismic data to add to our ION Solutions’ multi-client data library. A majority of these investments is funded by our customers, while the remainder is recovered through future data licensing fees. In 2008, we invested $110.4 million in our multi-client data library. Our customers generally commit to licensing the data prior to our initiating a new data library acquisition program. However, the aggregate amounts of future licensing fees for this data are sometimes uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, including the market prices of oil and gas, customer demand for seismic data in the library, and the availability of similar data from competitors. For example, the rapid decline of oil and natural gas prices in late 2008 could cause E&P companies to significantly delay or reduce their current seismic capital spending budgets. Therefore, we may not be able to recover all of the costs of or earn any return on these investments. In periods in which sales do not meet original expectations, we may be required to record additional amortization and/or impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of our data library, which charges may be material to our results of operations in any period. 26 Table of Contents The loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have traditionally relied on a relatively small number of significant customers. Consequently, our business is exposed to the risks related to customer concentration. No single customer represented 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006; however, our top five customers in total represented approximately 30%, 31% and 29%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues during those years. The loss of any of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, a relatively small number of customers has accounted for the majority of our net revenues in any period. During the last ten years, our traditional seismic contractor customers have been rapidly consolidating, thereby consolidating the demand for our products. The loss of any of our significant customers to further consolidation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ION Solutions and Data Management Solutions segments increase our exposure to the risks experienced by more technology-intensive companies. The businesses of ION Solutions and Data Management Solutions, being more concentrated in software, processing services, and proprietary technologies than our traditional business, have exposed us to the risks typically encountered by smaller technology companies that are more dependent on proprietary technology protection. These risks include: • future competition from more established companies entering the market; • product obsolescence; • dependence upon continued growth of the market for seismic data processing; • the rate of change in the markets for these segments’ technology and services; • research and development efforts not proving sufficient to keep up with changing market demands; • dependence on third-party software for inclusion in these segments’ products and services; • misappropriation of these segments’ technology by other companies; • alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property rights that could result in substantial additional costs; • difficulties inherent in forecasting sales for newly developed technologies or advancements in technologies; • recruiting, training, and retaining technically skilled personnel that could increase the costs for these segments, or limit their growth; and • the ability to maintain traditional margins for certain of their technology or services. We are subject to intense competition, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or to maintain our prices at profitable levels. Many of our sales are obtained through a competitive bidding process, which is standard for our industry. Competitive factors in recent years have included price, technological expertise, and a reputation for quality, safety and dependability. While no single company competes with us in all of our segments, we are subject to intense competition in each of our segments. New entrants in many of the markets in which certain of our products and services are currently strong should be expected. See “Item 1. — Business — Competition.” We compete with companies that are larger than we are in terms of revenues, number of processing locations and sales and marketing resources. A few of our competitors have a competitive advantage in being part of an affiliated seismic contractor company. In addition, we compete with major service providers and government-sponsored enterprises and affiliates. Some of our competitors conduct seismic data acquisition operations as part of their regular business, which we do not, and have greater financial and other resources than we do. These and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, as well as changes in government regulations. In addition, any excess supply of products and services in the seismic services market could apply downward pressure on prices for our products and 27 Table of Contents services. The negative effects of the competitive environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain of our facilities could be damaged by hurricanes and other natural disasters, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our facilities are located in regions of the United States that are susceptible to damage from hurricanes and other weather events, and, during 2005, were impacted by hurricanes or weather events. Our Marine Imaging Systems segment leases 104,000-square feet of facilities located in Harahan, Louisiana, in the greater New Orleans metropolitan area. In late August 2005, we suspended operations at this facility and evacuated and locked down the facility in preparation for Hurricane Katrina. This facility did not experience flooding or significant damage during or after the hurricane. However, because of employee evacuations, power failures and lack of related support services, utilities and infrastructure in the New Orleans area, we were unable to resume full operations at the facility until late September 2005. In September 2008, we lost power and related services for several days at our offices located in the Houston metropolitan area and in Harahan, Louisiana as a result of Hurricane Ike and Hurricane Gustav. Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact our facilities may negatively affect our financial position and operating results for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced production and product sales; costs associated with resuming production; reduced orders for our products from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; additional costs to purchase materials and supplies from outside suppliers; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance and an inability to retain necessary staff. We have outsourcing arrangements with third parties to manufacture some of our products. If these third party suppliers fail to deliver quality products or components at reasonable prices on a timely basis, we may alienate some of our customers and our revenues, profitability, and cash flow may decline. Additionally, the current global economic crisis could have a negative impact on our suppliers, causing a disruption in our vendor supplies. A disruption in vendor supplies may adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing processes require a high volume of quality components. We have increased our use of contract manufacturers as an alternative to our own manufacturing of products. We have outsourced the manufacturing of our vibrator vehicles, our towed marine streamers, our redeployable ocean bottom cables, our Applied MEMS components, various components of VectorSeis Ocean, and certain electronic and ground components of our land acquisition systems. Certain components used by us are currently provided by only one supplier. If, in implementing any outsource initiative, we are unable to identify contract manufacturers willing to contract with us on competitive terms and to devote adequate resources to fulfill their obligations to us or if we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our products and services may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules. We also may experience supply interruptions, cost escalations, and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement, or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers. Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key components, increases in component costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. If any of these risks are realized, our revenues, profitability, and cash flows may decline. In addition, as we come to rely more heavily on contract manufacturers, we may have fewer personnel resources with expertise to manage problems that may arise from these third-party arrangements. Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by current global economic conditions. If certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies to us or a significant increase in the price of such supplies and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. Our outsourcing relationships may require us to purchase inventory when demand for products produced by third-party manufacturers is low. Under some of our outsourcing arrangements, our manufacturing outsourcers purchase agreed-upon inventory levels to meet our forecasted demand. Our manufacturing plans and inventory levels are generally based on sales forecasts. If demand proves to be less than we originally forecasted and we cancel our committed purchase orders, our outsourcers generally will have the right to require us to purchase inventory which they had purchased on our behalf. Should we be required to purchase inventory under these terms, we may be required to hold inventory that we may never utilize. 28 Table of Contents Under our five-year supply agreement with Colibrys Ltd., we have committed to purchase a minimum number of MEMS accelerometers with an agreed upon cost of between $5.0 million to $8.0 million per year through 2009. If demand for our VectorSeis products, of which MEMS accelerometers are a component, proves to be less than we originally forecasted, we could be required to purchase MEMS accelerometers that we may never utilize. We may be unable to obtain broad intellectual property protection for our current and future products and we may become involved in intellectual property disputes. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies. We believe that the technological and creative skill of our employees, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are the foundations of our competitive advantage. Although we have a considerable portfolio of patents, copyrights, and trademarks, these property rights offer us only limited protection. Our competitors may attempt to copy aspects of our products despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, or may design around the proprietary features of our products. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult, and we are unable to determine the extent to which such use occurs. Our difficulties are compounded in certain foreign countries where the laws do not offer as much protection for proprietary rights as the laws of the United States. Third parties inquire and claim from time to time that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, result in injunctions, require product modifications, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such claims could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations, and the operations of our customers, are subject to numerous government regulations, which could adversely limit our operating flexibility. Our operations are subject to laws, regulations, government policies, and product certification requirements worldwide. Changes in such laws, regulations, policies or requirements could affect the demand for our products or result in the need to modify products, which may involve substantial costs or delays in sales and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Our export activities are also subject to extensive and evolving trade regulations. Certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions, and embargoes imposed by the United States government. These restrictions, sanctions, and embargoes also prohibit or limit us from participating in certain business activities in those countries. Our operations are subject to numerous local, state, and federal laws and regulations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties, and the protection of the environment. These laws have been changed frequently in the past, and there can be no assurance that future changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our customers’ operations are also significantly impacted by laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and endangered species. Consequently, changes in governmental regulations applicable to our customers may reduce demand for our products. For instance, regulations regarding the protection of marine mammals in the Gulf of Mexico may reduce demand for our air guns and other marine products. To the extent that our customers’ operations are disrupted by future laws and regulations, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we, our option holders or our existing stockholders holding registration rights sell additional shares of our common stock in the future, the market price of our common stock could decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the market in the future, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales and the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at prices that we deem appropriate. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding stock options to purchase up to 7,893,275 shares of our common stock. In addition, at that date there were 876,542 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under outstanding restricted stock awards. In addition, under our agreement dated February 15, 2005 with Fletcher International, Ltd. (“Fletcher”), Fletcher has the ability to sell up to 9,669,434 shares of our common stock that may be issued to it upon conversion of our Series D Preferred Stock. See Item 7. — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 29 Table of Contents Shares of our common stock are also subject to piggyback registration rights held by Laitram, L.L.C. We also may enter into additional registration rights agreements in the future in connection with any subsequent acquisitions or securities transactions we may undertake. Any sales of our common stock under these registration rights arrangements with Laitram or other stockholders could be negatively perceived in the trading markets and negatively affect the price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public market under these arrangements, or the expectation of such sales, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, our stockholders rights plan, the terms of our Series D Preferred Stock and contractual requirements under our agreement with Fletcher contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, our stockholders rights plan, the terms of our Series D Preferred Stock and our agreement with Fletcher may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • providing for a dividend on our common stock, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” which can be triggered after a person or group acquires, obtains the right to acquire or commences a tender or exchange offer to acquire, 20% or more of our outstanding common stock; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; • requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • requiring an acquiring party to assume all of our obligations under our agreement with Fletcher and the terms of the Series D Preferred Stock set forth in our certificates of rights and designations for those series, including the dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and share registration provisions. Note: The foregoing factors pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 should not be construed as exhaustive. In addition to the foregoing, we wish to refer readers to other factors discussed elsewhere in this report as well as other filings and reports with the SEC for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect the events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents 