Item 1A. Risk Factors This report (as well as certain oral statements made from time to time by authorized representatives on behalf of our company) contain statements concerning our future results and performance and other matters that are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industry’s results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Examples of other forward-looking statements contained in this report (or in such oral statements) include statements regarding: • expected revenues, operating profit and net income; • expected gross margins for our products and services; • future benefits to our customers to be derived from new products and services, such as FireFly; • future growth rates for certain of our products and services; • expectations of oil and gas company end-users purchasing our more expensive, more technologically advanced products and services; • the degree and rate of future market acceptance of our new products; • the timing of anticipated sales; • anticipated timing and success of commercialization and capabilities of products and services under development, and start-up costs associated with their development; • expected improved operational efficiencies from our FWD products and services; • success in integrating our acquired businesses; • expectations regarding future mix of business and future asset recoveries; • potential future acquisitions; • future levels of capital expenditures; • future cash needs and future sources of cash, including availability under our revolving line of credit facility; • the outcome of pending or threatened disputes and other contingencies; • future demand for seismic equipment and services; 15 Table of Contents • future seismic industry fundamentals; • the adequacy of our future liquidity and capital resources; • future oil and gas commodity prices; • future opportunities for new products and projected research and development expenses; • future worldwide economic conditions; • expectations regarding realization of deferred tax assets; • anticipated results regarding accounting estimates we make; and • results from strategic alliances with third parties. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. Our results of operations can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we make or by risks and uncertainties known or unknown to us. Therefore, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of the forward-looking statements. Actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations and assumptions. While we cannot identify all of the factors that may cause actual results to vary from our expectations, we believe the following factors should be considered carefully: Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and we are subject to seasonality factors. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations from period to period, as a result of new product or service introductions, the timing of significant expenses in connection with customer orders, unrealized sales, the product mix sold and the seasonality of our business. Because many of our products feature a high sales price and are technologically complex, we generally have experienced long sales cycles for these products and historically incur significant expense at the beginning of these cycles for component parts and other inventory necessary to manufacture a product in anticipation of a future sale, which may not ultimately occur. In addition, the revenues from our sales can vary widely from period to period due to changes in customer requirements. These factors can create fluctuations in our net sales and results of operations from period to period. Variability in our overall gross margins for any quarter, which depend on the percentages of higher-margin and lower-margin products and services sold in that quarter, compounds these uncertainties. As a result, if net sales or gross margins fall below expectations, our operating results and financial condition will likely be adversely affected. Additionally, our business can be seasonal in nature, with strongest demand typically in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Due to the relatively high sales price of many of our products and data libraries and relatively low unit sales volume, our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated from period to period due to the timing of orders and shipments and the mix of products and services sold. This uneven pattern has made financial predictions for any given period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places challenges on our inventory management. Delays caused by factors beyond our control, such as the granting of permits for seismic surveys by third parties and the availability and equipping of marine vessels, can affect GXT’s revenues from its processing services from period to period. Also, delays in ordering products or in shipping or delivering products in a given quarter could significantly affect our results of operations for that quarter. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause greater volatility in the price of our common stock and convertible notes. We may not gain rapid market acceptance for our Full-Wave Digital products, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have spent considerable time and capital developing our full-wave equipment product lines that incorporate our VectorSeis and associated technologies. Because these products rely on a new digital sensor, our ability to sell these products will depend on acceptance of our digital sensor and technology solutions by geophysical contractors and exploration and production companies. If our customers do not believe that our 16 Table of Contents digital sensor delivers higher quality data with greater operational efficiency, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. The introduction of new seismic technologies and products has traditionally involved long development cycles. Because our full-wave digital products incorporate new technologies, we have experienced slow market acceptance and market penetration for these products. For these reasons, and despite the fact that industry-wide demand for seismic services and equipment has increased in 2005, we have continued to be unable to foresee and predict from period to period with the certainty we have desired, estimated future sales volumes, revenues and margins for these new products. We are exposed to risks related to complex, highly technical products. Our customers often require demanding specifications for product performance and reliability. Because many of our products are complex and often use unique advanced components, processes, technologies and techniques, undetected errors and design and manufacturing flaws may occur. Even though we attempt to assure that our systems are always reliable in the field, the many technical variables related to their operations can cause a combination of factors that can, and has, from time to time, caused performance and service issues with certain of our products. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty and replacement costs and may affect our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may adversely impact our results of operations. Despite our testing and quality assurance programs, undetected errors may not be discovered until the product is purchased and used by a customer in a variety of field conditions. If our customers deploy our new products and they do not work correctly, our relationship with our customers may be materially and adversely affected. Our VectorSeis System Four Digital — Analog land data acquisition system, introduced in 2004, initially experienced operational problems in the field. During 2004, we introduced our VectorSeis Ocean system for seismic data acquisition using redeployable ocean bottom cable. The system was put into operation that year, but experienced a number of start-up functionality issues. As a result of the system’s recent development and advanced and complex nature, we expect to experience occasional operational issues from time to time in the future. Generally, until our products have been tested in the field under a wide variety of operational conditions, we cannot be certain that performance and service problems will not arise. Customers do occasionally experience issues and therefore there is a possibility that our new products may also suffer from similar issues. In that case, market acceptance of our new products could be delayed and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Weak demand or technological obsolescence could impair the value of our multi-client data library. We have invested significant amounts in acquiring and processing multi-client data and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. There is no assurance that we will recover all the costs of such surveys. Technological, regulatory or other industry or general economic developments could render all or portions of our multi-client data library obsolete or reduce its value. Additionally, our individual surveys have a book life of four years, so particular surveys may be subject to significant amortization even through sales of licenses associated with that survey are weak or non-existent, thus reducing our profits. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from foreign sales, which pose additional risks. Sales to customers outside of North America accounted for approximately 69% of our consolidated net sales for year ended December 31, 2005, and we believe that export sales will remain a significant percentage of our revenue. United States export restrictions affect the types and specifications of products we can export. Additionally, to complete certain sales, United States laws may require us to obtain export licenses, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulty in obtaining these licenses. Operations and sales in 17 Table of Contents countries other than the United States are subject to various risks peculiar to each country. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: • expropriation and nationalization; • political and economic instability; • armed conflict and civil disturbance; • currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • tariff regulations and import/export restrictions; • customer credit risk; • governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, or restrict payments or the movement of funds; and • governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contractual rights. The majority of our foreign sales are denominated in United States dollars. An increase in the value of the dollar relative to other currencies will make our products more expensive, and therefore less competitive, in foreign markets. In addition, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest. The loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have traditionally relied on a relatively small number of significant customers. Consequently, our business is exposed to the risks related to customer concentration. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, approximately 9% and 15%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales related to one Chinese customer. The loss of any of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on highly skilled personnel in many of our segments’ businesses, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our businesses. For example, competition for qualified personnel required for GXT’s data processing operations and our other segments’ businesses has intensified as worldwide seismic activity and oil and natural gas exploration and development have increased. Rapid growth presents a challenge to us and our industry to recruit, train and retain our employees while managing the impact of potential wage inflation and the potential lack of available qualified labor in some markets where we operate. In recent periods, the demand from E&P companies for GXT’s services has increased dramatically, putting pressures on GXT’s workforce to meet this demand. A well-trained, motivated, adequately-staffed work force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. 18 Table of Contents GXT and Concept Systems increase our exposure to the risks experienced by more technology-intensive companies. The businesses of GXT and Concept Systems, being more concentrated in software, processing services and proprietary technologies than our traditional business, have exposed us to the risks typically encountered by smaller technology companies that are more dependent on proprietary technology protection and research and development. These risks include: • future competition from more established companies entering the market; • product obsolescence; • dependence upon continued growth of the market for seismic data processing; • the rate of change in the markets for GXT’s and Concept Systems’ technology and services; • research and development efforts not proving sufficient to keep up with changing market demands; • dependence on third-party software for inclusion in GXT’s and Concept Systems’ products and services; • misappropriation of GXT’s or Concept Systems’ technology by other companies; • alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property rights that could result in substantial additional costs; • difficulties inherent in forecasting sales for newly developed technologies or advancements in technologies; • recruiting, training, and retaining technically skilled personnel that could increase the costs for GXT or Concept Systems, or limit their growth; and • the ability to maintain traditional margins for certain of their technology or services. Certain of our facilities could be damaged by hurricanes and other natural disasters, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our facilities are located in regions of the United States that are susceptible to damage from hurricanes and other weather events, and, during 2005, were impacted by hurricanes or weather events. Our Marine Imaging Systems segment leases a 40,000-square foot facility located in Harahan, Louisiana, in the greater New Orleans metropolitan area. On August 27, 2005, we suspended operations at this facility and evacuated and locked down the facility in preparation for Hurricane Katrina. This facility did not experience flooding or significant damage during or after the hurricane. However, because of employee evacuations, power failures and lack of related support services, utilities and infrastructure in the New Orleans area, we were unable to resume full operations at the facility until September 26, 2005. While operations remained suspended in New Orleans, many of the functions performed at the Harahan facility were performed at our facilities in Stafford, Texas and other locations. The suspension of operations at this facility did not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact our facilities may negatively affect our financial position and operating results for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced production and product sales; costs associated with resuming production; reduced orders for our products from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; additional costs to purchase materials and supplies from outside suppliers; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance and an inability to retain necessary staff. 19 Table of Contents We have outsourcing arrangements with third parties to manufacture some of our products. If these third parties fail to deliver quality products or components at reasonable prices on a timely basis, we may alienate some of our customers and our revenues, profitability and cash flow may decline. We have increased our use of contract manufacturers as an alternative to our own manufacturing of products. We have outsourced the manufacturing of our vibrator vehicles, our towed marine streamers, our redeployable ocean bottom cables, various components of VectorSeic Ocean and certain electronic and ground components of our land acquisition systems. In addition, in December 2004, we sold to another company our Applied MEMS business that manufactures MEMS products that are a necessary component in many of our products. If, in implementing any outsource initiative, we are unable to identify contract manufacturers willing to contract with us on competitive terms and to devote adequate resources to fulfill their obligations to us or if we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our products and services may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules. We also may experience supply interruptions, cost escalations and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement, or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers. If any of these risks are realized, our revenues, profitability and cash flow may decline. In addition, as we come to rely more heavily on contract manufacturers, we may have fewer personnel resources with expertise to manage problems that may arise from these third-party arrangements. Technological change in the seismic industry requires us to make substantial research and development expenditures. The markets for our products are characterized by changing technology and new product introductions. We must invest substantial capital to maintain a leading edge in technology, with no assurance that we will receive an adequate rate of return on those investments. If we are unable to develop and produce successfully and timely new and enhanced products and services, we will be unable to compete in the future and our business, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our outsourcing relationships may require us to purchase inventory when demand for products produced by third-party manufacturers is low. Under a few of our outsourcing arrangements, our manufacturing outsourcers purchase agreed-upon inventory levels to meet our forecasted demand. Since we typically operate without a significant backlog of orders for our products, our manufacturing plans and inventory levels are principally based on sales forecasts. If demand proves to be less than we originally forecasted and we cancel our committed purchase orders, our outsourcers generally have the right to require us to purchase inventory which they had purchased on our behalf. Should we be required to purchase inventory under these provisions, we may be required to hold inventory that we may never utilize. Under our five-year supply agreement with Colibrys Ltd., we have committed to purchase a minimum of MEMs accelermeters ranging between $7.0 million to $8.0 million per year through 2009. If demand for our Vectorseis products, which MEMs accelermeters are a component of, prove to be less than we originally forecasted, we could be required to purchase MEMs accelermeters that we may never utilize. We may be unable to obtain broad intellectual property protection for our current and future products and we may become involved in intellectual property disputes. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies. We believe that the technological and creative skill of our employees, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are the foundations of our competitive advantage. Although we have a considerable portfolio of patents, copyrights and trademarks, these property rights offer us only limited protection. Our competitors may attempt to copy aspects of our products despite our efforts to protect our 20 Table of Contents proprietary rights, or may design around the proprietary features of our products. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult, and we are unable to determine the extent to which such use occurs. Our difficulties are compounded in certain foreign countries where the laws do not offer as much protection for proprietary rights as the laws of the United States. Third parties inquire and claim from time to time that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, result in injunctions, require product modifications, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such claims could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Future technologies and businesses that we may acquire may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. An important aspect of our current business strategy is to seek new technologies, products and businesses to broaden the scope of our existing and planned product lines and technologies. While we believe that these acquisitions complement our technologies and our general business strategy, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the expected benefit of these acquisitions. In addition, these acquisitions may result in unexpected costs, expenses and liabilities. Acquisitions expose us to: • increased costs associated with the acquisition and operation of the new businesses or technologies and the management of geographically dispersed operations; • risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies, operations, sites and personnel; • the possible loss of key employees and costs associated with their loss; • risks that any technology we acquire may not perform as well as we had anticipated; • the diversion of management’s attention and other resources from existing business concerns; • the potential inability to replicate operating efficiencies in the acquired company’s operations; • potential impairments of goodwill and intangible assets; • the inability to generate revenues to offset associated acquisition costs; • the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls, and procedures; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new and inexperienced management personnel; and • the risk that acquired technologies do not provide us with the benefits we anticipated. Integration of the acquired businesses requires significant efforts from each entity, including coordinating existing business plans and research and development efforts. Integrating operations may distract management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of the combined companies. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses, our future results will be negatively impacted. Our operations, and the operations of our customers, are subject to numerous government regulations, which could adversely limit our operating flexibility. Our operations are subject to laws, regulations, government policies and product certification requirements worldwide. Changes in such laws, regulations, policies or requirements could affect the demand for our products or result in the need to modify products, which may involve substantial costs or delays in sales and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Our export activities are also subject to extensive and evolving trade regulations. Certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government. These restrictions, sanctions and embargoes also prohibit or limit us from participating in certain business activities in those countries. Our operations are subject to numerous local, 21 Table of Contents state and federal laws and regulations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties and the protection of the environment. These laws have been changed frequently in the past, and there can be no assurance that future changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our customers’ operations are also significantly impacted by laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and endangered species. Consequently, changes in governmental regulations applicable to our customers may reduce demand for our products. For instance, regulations regarding the protection of marine mammals in the Gulf of Mexico may reduce demand for our airguns and other marine products. To the extent that our customer’s operations are disrupted by future laws and regulations, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Disruption in vendor supplies may adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing processes require a high volume of quality components. Certain components used by us are currently provided by only one supplier. We may, from time to time, experience supply or quality control problems with suppliers, and these problems could significantly affect our ability to meet production and sales commitments. Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involve several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key components and increases in component costs and reduced control over delivery schedules; any of these could adversely affect our future results of operations. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our operational, growth and debt service needs. Our ability to fund our operations, grow our business and make payments on our indebtedness and our other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn will be affected by general economic conditions in the energy industry and by many financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future sources of capital will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations, grow our business and satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake additional or alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds that may be realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations under the notes. Further consolidation among our significant customers could materially and adversely affect us. Historically, a relatively small number of customers has accounted for the majority of our net sales in any period. In recent years, our traditional seismic contractor customers have been rapidly consolidating, thereby consolidating the demand for our products. The loss of any of our significant customers to further consolidation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to risks relating to the effectiveness of our internal controls. During 2004, we implemented a number of procedures to strengthen our internal controls, including procedures to comply with the annual internal controls assessment and attestation requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related SEC rules. During the second quarter of 2005, we implemented and enhanced certain internal control procedures regarding GXT’s royalty expenses related to its multi-client data library. As a result of these procedures, we discovered errors in the calculation of 22 Table of Contents royalty expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2005. In August 2005, we announced that for the three months ended March 31, 2005 we had understated our royalty expenses and liabilities by $795,000 and therefore restated the results of operations for that period. These inaccuracies caused our management to conclude that the inaccuracies constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2005. These errors in the calculation of GXT royalty expenses did not have a material impact upon our reported results for the year ended December 31, 2004, any interim periods in 2004, or any prior period. We announced in March 2006 that we were restating our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 and those for the quarterly periods ended September 30, 2004, December 31, 2004, March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005, as a result of incorrect application of accounting principles for revenue recognition by GXT in connection with licenses of its multi-client seismic survey data. We determined that the revenues from certain GXT multi-client data transactions in 2004 and the first three quarters of 2005 were recognized by GXT upon the signing of customer letter agreements and delivery of the multi-client data, but prior to the receipt from the customer of a signed final master geophysical data license agreement and accompanying license supplement, which we determined was not in accordance with SEC guidance. As a result, we determined that the revenue from these licenses should not have been recognized by GXT until delivery of the data to the customer and receipt from the customer of a signed final master geophysical data license agreement and accompanying license supplement. This accounting error had a material impact on the timing of recognition of reported revenues from certain multi-client data license transactions during 2004 and the first three quarters of 2005. The impact of the financial restatement of 2004’s results of operations reduced revenues and net income for 2004 by approximately $6.7 million and $5.6 million, respectively, and increased our basic and diluted net loss per share by approximately $0.08. For a description of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified at December 31, 2005, see Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures.” We may experience controls deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future, which could adversely impact the accuracy and timeliness of our future financial reporting and reports and filings we make with the SEC. The addition of GXT may alienate a number of our traditional seismic contractor customers with whom GXT competes and adversely affect sales to and revenues from those customers. GXT’s business in processing seismic data competes with a number of our traditional customers that are seismic contractors. Many of these companies not only offer their customers — generally major, independent and national oil companies — the traditional services of conducting seismic surveys, but also the processing and interpretation of the data acquired from those seismic surveys. In that regard, GXT’s processing services directly compete with these contractors’ service offerings and may adversely affect our relationships with them, which could result in reduced sales and revenues from these seismic contractor customers. Note: The foregoing factors pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 should not be construed as exhaustive. In addition to the foregoing, we wish to refer readers to other factors discussed elsewhere in this report as well as other filings and reports with the SEC for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect the events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 